
                               1 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday

New York: Long Island Pharmacy Swindled State Out Of $235,000

LENGTH: 375  words

DATELINE: Albany


Office of the State Comptroller, The State of New York has issued the following
news release:

A Long Island pharmacy improperly collected at least $235,000 from Medicaid and
the New York State Health Insurance Program (NYSHIP) over a four-year period,
primarily through payments for phony prescriptions that were never delivered to
patients, according to audits released today by New York State Comptroller
Thomas P. DiNapoli.

Several investigations of Davis Ethical Pharmacy, based in Rockville Centre, and
former owner William Davis are currently underway by the Nassau County District
Attorney and the state Department of Financial Services (DFS). DiNapoli's
auditors coordinated their work with these agencies. The improper payments were
identified when auditors randomly sampled 840 of 59,538 claims paid to Davis
Ethical by Medicaid and NYSHIP valued around $7 million.

"Davis Ethical Pharmacy and its former owner appear to have been anything but
ethical, defrauding the NYSHIP and Medicaid programs of a significant amount of
money," DiNapoli said. "Davis even went so far as falsifying prescriptions from
a deceased physician. My office will continue to work with law enforcement to
get this money back and make sure those that committed this blatant fraud are
punished to the full extent of the law."

NYSHIP provides health insurance coverage to active and retired state,
participating local government and school district employees and their
dependents. The Empire Plan is the primary health benefits plan for NYSHIP and
includes prescription drug coverage. The Department of Civil Service contracts
with United HealthCare to administer the prescription drug benefit portion of
the plan. During the audit period, Jan. 1, 2008 through Dec. 13, 2011, Civil
Service paid United more than $6.2 million for 52,485 claims submitted by Davis
Ethical.

Separately, the New York State Medicaid Program, run by the Department of Health
(DOH), provides prescription drug coverage for enrollees. During the audit
period, Medicaid paid Davis Ethical $776,849 for 7,053 claims. Davis Ethical was
owned and operated by William Davis, a licensed pharmacist who sold the business
in December 2011.

For further information please visit: http://www.osc.state.ny.us/

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                            November 8, 2016 Tuesday

Health cover for all workers a must in Oman

BYLINE: REJIMON K/CHIEF REPORTER[email protected]/*

LENGTH: 898 words


by REJIMON K/CHIEF REPORTER [email protected] In the first phase, the OCCI plans
to ensure health benefits for workers in firms with more than 100 employees.


MUSCAT: "Ethical" health cover should be provided to all private sector workers
by 2018, the country's chamber of commerce has told employers.

A plan to ensure health cover across the private sector has been launched by the
government body, the Oman Chamber of Commerce and Industry.



In a notice issued on Tuesday, the OCCI urged firms to act according to the plan
and provide health insurance coverage for all workers. Trade union bosses
welcomed the news, and said that they had already held talks with the government
to include health cover in new labour laws proposals, expected to be announced
on November 20.

In recent months, companies have been ditching their employee health cover
benefits and this has led to the "ethical" issue of some workers not able to
afford treatment, according to an OCCI spokesman.

"Business should be informed about this and consider it when studying their
future projects," the OCCI notice stated.

The plan is expected to be implemented over a number of phases and the chamber
of commerce hopes it can be rolled out by early 2018.

The first phase will involve consultation with companies that have more than 100
employees to ensure cover for all staff. This phase is expected to start in
early 2018, according to the OCCI.

According to the plan, the second phase will include companies which have
between 50 and 100 employees.

"Big companies are already doing it. However, some small companies are skipping
to provide the insurance coverage for workers," Ahmed Al Hooti, the OCCI member,
said. The OCCI member added that they will be urging companies to implement
health insurance schemes for their employees as it an "ethical" move.

He said: "Well-known big private companies in Oman make sure they provide their
employees with health insurance but some are not committed to it so we need to
instruct them to do so. It is an ethical move," he said.

The OCCI member added that during such tough economic times, some companies pull
out of providing some employee benefits like health insurance, reduce the salary
or sack the employee.

"They'd rather remove the insurance," he said, explaining that expatriates will
be mostly affected by such decisions as Omanis still have the option to visit
the free public health care centres.

Recently, medics and insurers confirmed that private sector companies are
excluding chronic and common medical conditions from health insurance plans due
to austerity measures.
According to government data, in the private sector, there are 215,109 Omanis
working, while the number of expatriates is 1,764,059, as of the end of
September 2016.

The OCCI's statistics report shows that there are 75 consulting offices, 374
International companies and 1,887 Excellent level companies registered with the
chamber.

Philip K Philip, group CEO of Muscat Insurance Company and Muscat Life Assurance
Company, said: "Companies should do this voluntarily. Insurance firms have
products suited for small companies and big companies," he added.

Shameer PTK, an Indian social worker, said: "On an average, we come across at
least five cases of workers stranded in hospital every week only because they
don't have health insurance coverage," Shameer said.

"We say that every worker should be provided health insurance coverage."

Currently, Shameer is looking for charity to foot the bills of a worker who is
stranded in hospital without insurance coverage.

"The bill is worth more than OMR2,000. His sponsor is not responding. Hospital
has told us that he can be discharged. Now, we have to look for money. He was
admitted to hospital following a cardiac arrest," Shameer added.

A trade union leader in Oman said that health care for all workers in the
private sector has to be made mandatory.

"Earlier, the same issue was discussed in the meetings convened for drafting the
new labour law. I am hopeful that it will be included in the new labour law,"
the trade union leader added.

One group of employees said their company has set aside only OMR25 each year,
for two years, to cover a worker's health needs.

"If we fall ill and the bills at the hospital go above OMR50, then the extra sum
will be deducted from our salary," one worker said.

There are around 500 workers in the company and the scheme is the same for all
staff.

"Recently, one of the workers was suffering from allergic problems. He had to
visit the hospital. The bills crossed OMR25. The extra OMR13.770 was deducted
from his salary. His salary is only OMR70 after cuts," the workers added.

"We always pray that we do not fall ill," one worker added.

Article 33 of Oman Labour Law states that the employer must provide his
employees with access to medical facilities in the establishment and he shall,
if the number of his employees in one place or one country exceeds one hundred,
employ a qualified nurse for providing medical aid and shall assign a doctor to
visit and treat them in the place prepared by him for such purpose.

Next Page > © Muscat Press and Publishing House SAOC 2016 Provided by SyndiGate
Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

http://imgs.syndigate.info/42/89/20/147870790295.jpg

In the first phase, the OCCI plans to ensure health benefits for workers in
firms with more than 100 employees.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2016 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

The Journal Record Health Care Briefs: February 28, 2012

BYLINE: Journal Record Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1325  words


800 students to attend career day

OKLAHOMA CITY - More than 800 high school students are expected to be at Mercy
Health Center in Oklahoma City on Friday for Mercy Health Career Exploration
Day.

"Students often think a career in health care means being a doctor or a nurse,
but there are so many opportunities in health care today," said Jill Wimmer,
Mercy recruitment manager. "This event isn't a lecture or some boring intro to
health care; this is an exciting hands-on experience for students to see what
they would get to do as a health care professional. We don't just tell them
about it, they get to see it up close, feel it and be a part of it. "

Participating high schools and groups include Bethany, Bishop McGuinness,
Canadian Valley Technology Center, Chandler, Deer Creek, Edmond Memorial, El
Reno, Francis Tuttle Technology Center, Mount Saint Mary, Putnam City North,
John Marshall and Yukon.

College of nursing sets conference

OKLAHOMA CITY - The University of Oklahoma College of Nursing has scheduled the
Legal and Ethical Concerns Conference from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Friday at the OU
College of Nursing, 1100 N. Stonewall in Oklahoma City.

The conference will include sessions on the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996, social media, ethical decision-making and legal
issues in nursing documentation. The conference also will include a discussion
on ethical customer service with Doug Wojcieszak, founder of the Sorry Works!
Coalition.

The cost to attend the OU College of Nursing's Legal and Ethical Concerns
conference is $90 and includes lunch. The OU Consortium employees can attend for
free. Feb. 28 is the registration deadline. For registration information, visit
nursing.ouhsc.edu/CE.

Neurosurgeon joins OU Physicians

OKLAHOMA CITY - Neurosurgeon Michael Sughrue also has established his medical
practice with OU Physicians.

He has been named director of minimally invasive brain surgery at OU Physicians
and is also an assistant professor with the OU College of Medicine.

Sughrue is the only physician in the region to perform keyhole surgery to remove
brain tumors. He performs skull base tumor surgery, awake speech mapping and
other procedures to treat complex brain tumors.

He completed a fellowship at the Centre for Minimally Invasive Neurosurgery,
Sydney, Australia. He completed a neurological surgery residency and surgical
internship at the University of California at San Francisco. He earned his
medical degree at Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons in New
York City after undergraduate work at the University of Oklahoma. -

School wellness assessment available

OKLAHOMA CITY - Oklahoma schools will soon have the opportunity to conduct an
annual assessment of their environment as it relates to physical activity and
nutrition through the Oklahoma Healthy and Fit Schools Scorecard.

The score card is a self-assessment tool that schools can use to assess the
quality of their nutrition and physical activity programs, and be recognized
with an award by the Governor's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports.

The Web-based survey will be available to schools beginning in March. Schools
have an opportunity, based on their score, to qualify for either a gold, silver,
or bronze certification.

"The Oklahoma Healthy and Fit Schools Scorecard is a way for schools to
recognize how to make the healthy alternative the easy choice," said Wendee
Lentz, Governor's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports president. "We want to
help schools identify ways to shape the environment so that every child in the
state has an opportunity to be healthy. "

The score card was designed to assess and monitor a school district's local
school wellness policy. In 2006, a federal law was created that requires each
school district that participates in federally reimbursable school meals program
to enact a local school wellness policy. The score card can be used by the
Healthy and Fit Advisory Committee at each school to recommend changes to
strengthen the district's wellness policy.

School of Community Medicine gets grant

TULSA - Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma has awarded a $100,000 grant to
the University of Oklahoma School of Community Medicine to provide patient care
services to children and their families, regardless of insurance coverage or
status, at the OU school-based clinics.

The OU School of Community Medicine operates clinics at Roy Clark Elementary and
Rosa Parks Elementary in the Union Public Schools district, Educare, and the
Sand Springs Early Childhood Education Center.

Director of patient access named

TULSA - Pam Paschall has been named director of patient access at Oklahoma State
University Medical Center.

She was patient access manager. She has been with OSU Medical Center for six
years. Paschall also manages patient transport, center scheduling and
communication.

Jared Droze has been named patient access manager at OSU Medical Center. He has
more than five years of health care experience. Droze is working on a master's
degree in health care administration.

Road map for health developed

NORMAN - A plan to unite community partners in a countywide effort to improve
the health of the residents of Cleveland County will be unveiled in Norman.

The launch event of the Cleveland County Community Health Improvement Plan is
scheduled at a luncheon at 11:30 a.m. March 6 at the Norman Regional Hospital
Education Center.

"The Cleveland County Community Health Improvement Plan identifies those
critical strategies that are necessary to create a healthier county," said
Cleveland County Health Department Administrative Director Shari Kinney. "We
believe this plan is truly transformational and provides the structure and
process that can move us from good to great in terms of the health outcomes our
residents can and should expect. "

The plan is the culmination of an effort that began in 2010 when the Cleveland
County Health Department and Cleveland County Turning Point Coalition organized
a community health improvement planning team to assess county health data,
review community activities already in place to address health improvement, and
identify specific health needs for additional action and intervention.

"Our plan was modeled after the Oklahoma Health Improvement Plan released by the
state Board of Health in 2009," Kinney said. "The state plan focuses on three
priority areas that we chose to replicate for Cleveland County: tobacco use
prevention, obesity reduction, and children's health. "

The event is open to the public. For reservations, call Amanda James at (405)
366-3407.

Work-site wellness training offered

OKLAHOMA CITY - The Oklahoma State Department of Health is offering free
work-site wellness training for businesses.

The Make It Your Business curriculum is designed to help Oklahoma businesses
reach their employees with ways to eat better, move more and be tobacco-free.
Any business is invited to attend training in its area.

"The Make It Your Business curriculum provides an easy-to-use tool kit with
practical ideas businesses can implement to create their own work-site wellness
programs and policies at little to no cost," said state Health Commissioner
Terry Cline.

Make It Your Business course topics include methods to improve employee morale,
reduce the number of medical claims filed by employees and reduce sick days
taken by employees. Other topics include information on increasing employee
productivity, enhancing the work environment and attracting new employees.

"This curriculum will also help businesses become an Oklahoma Certified Healthy
Business," said Keith Reed, director, Center for the Advancement of Wellness at
the Oklahoma State Department of Health.

Make It Your Business training session are scheduled from 9 a.m. to noon March 6
at the Kiamichi Technology Center in Atoka; 9 a.m. to noon April 3 at the
Kiamichi Technology Center in Poteau; and 9 a.m. to noon May 3 at the Ardmore
Convention Center in Ardmore.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            March 15, 2008 Saturday

Bad precedent

LENGTH: 502 words


Health, Welfare and Family Affairs Minister Kim Soung-yee became the Lee
Myung-bak administration's first minister to be appointed without approval from
the National Assembly.

Kim's appointment does not break any laws. The president can appoint a minister
20 days after submitting to the National Assembly the nominee's name for
consideration, regardless of whether parliament is in favor or against. However,
the various allegations of wrongdoing against Kim that still stand make the
appointment imprudent.

The National Assembly completed Kim's confirmation hearing on Feb. 27 but did
not adopt a final report because of a number of controversies. Among the
allegations against him are plagiarism, the use of the same thesis in multiple
publications, and misappropriation of funds while holding a public position.
Added to the potpourri of suspicions is the illicit use of the national health
insurance by Kim's daughter, who is an American citizen. Indeed, had Kim's
appointment required a parliamentary vote - as is the case of prime ministerial
appointments - Kim most likely would have failed the test.

Why did Lee press ahead with appointing Kim, who clearly suffers from ethical
lapses? The fact that three minister-nominees had already stepped down after
allegations of ethical deficiency worked toward Lee obstinately pressing on. Lee
may have reasoned that he needed to send a message that he was in command of the
government, and thus could not afford yet another retreat.

It is true that the protracted absence of the top leadership at the Health
Ministry would have caused problems in the workings of government. Cheong Wa Dae
spokesperson Lee Dong-kwan's remark that while there have been allegations
against Kim, they are not of such significance as to prevent him from carrying
out his work as a minister. The spokesperson may as well have said: "Ethical
lapses are not a problem so long as the man can get the job done."

Few would agree with spokesperson Lee's statement. Even a conservative civic
group that supported Lee in the presidential race warned against a liberal
resurgence if the president does not accommodate constructive criticism.

It is a cause for concern that the two top people in charge of welfare policies
have both been charged with ethical lapses. Senior Presidential Secretary for
Social Policy Park Mee-sook was appointed to her post despite allegations of
plagiarism. Will the public have confidence in leaders who obviously thought
little of taking credit for work they did not do? What kind of leadership will
these people be able to command when their qualifications have been tainted?

In pushing ahead with the appointment of Kim, Lee has sent a signal that he has
no problems with leaders who have "minor" ethical lapses as long as they are
capable of getting the job done. During Lee's five-year term, he will need to
appoint many more officials. By appointing Kim without a show of hands, Lee has
set a precedent that could potentially render Assembly approval superfluous.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            November 17, 2014 Monday
                            All_but_Toronto Edition

The ethics of egg freezing

BYLINE: Margaret Somerville, National Post

SECTION: ISSUES &; IDEAS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 722 words


Apple's and Facebook's announcement last month that they would offer $20,000
health insurance coverage to women employees to cover the cost of freezing and
storing their eggs, to enable them to postpone child-bearing and keep working,
elicited a rush of commentary and debate. But only now are the full ethical
ramifications of this proposal becoming fully clear.

Egg or ovarian tissue freezing can be used for medical or social reasons.
Medical use - for example, freezing tissue from a young woman who might become
infertile because of cancer treatment so she can later have her own children -
does not raise the same ethical issues as social use, the issue I address here.

Many younger women journalists who called me opened our conversation saying they
were at an age when they were thinking of having a baby and they felt very
disturbed by this story, but were not sure why. A common comment was "It [egg
freezing] just doesn't seem right." Their reaction is probably an example of the
"ethical yuck factor" - we intuit that something is ethically wrong, but need
time to explore the matter to identify the nature of that wrong.

We've had some of that time now. So, is egg freezing good for women? Is it good
for the resulting child? Is it good for society? And is it good for
corporations, such as Apple and Facebook?

The last question is the easiest and simplest to answer: If it wasn't good for
the corporations, including their profits, they wouldn't offer to pay for it.

What about women? A major goal of so-called "progressive values" adherents is
maximizing individual autonomy and choice, in particular, "reproductive choice."
Egg freezing augments the range of that choice: Have your babies when you retire
at 60; have both a full career and a family, but sequentially and in that order.

However, as Seema Mohapatra points out in an article in the Harvard Law and
Policy Review, offering egg freezing could mean women who choose not to postpone
childbearing might be seen as not sufficiently committed to their career, thus
harming their progress. Do such coercive possibilities mean a decision to
postpone is not autonomous and free? Is that also true if a woman's parents
offer to pay for freezing and storage, because they want to ensure they will
have grandchildren? Is there informed consent to the risks of freezing the eggs?
Until recently this was considered an experimental procedure. Is there false
certainty and false hope that children will be possible when "the time is
right"?

What about the resulting child?

Although I've addressed the woman's perspective first, ethically all uses of
assisted human reproduction technologies should be primarily child-centred, not
adult-centred, as is almost always true at present.

It's too early to know whether egg freezing will harm resulting children, but
there is emerging evidence that suggests that children conceived through in
vitro fertilization may have more health problems than those naturally
conceived. Is having an old mother harmful? Is there a reification and
commodification of the future child, making him a thing or object put aside and
stored on a "payment plan" to be claimed at a later date? What about the implied
message that career is more important than the child or a family?

And what about society? What will be the impact on important values on which we
found our society of the technologization, depersonalization, dehumanization,
commodification and commercialization of our most intimate relationship, that
created by the passing on of life to our children? What will be the effect on
the family and its members' relationships? How will issues of justice, raised
because only rich people will have access to egg freezing, be handled? Does it
matter that this is a further expansion of the "fertility industry" (the
assisted human reproductive technologies market), which in 2013 was already a
$16-billion a year enterprise worldwide? Does egg freezing differ in any
ethically relevant respects from sperm freezing? These are very real questions
that we don't have answers to yet, but that need to be considered. We need to
revalue the natural and to recognize that just because we can use technology to
do an end run around nature does not mean that we are necessarily wise in doing
so. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2014 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lex Van Lieshout, AFP, Getty Images; A technician opens a vessel
holding women's frozen egg cells.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             August 28, 2009 Friday
                                  City Edition

ABOVE HIS PAY GRADE?

SECTION: OPINION; YOUR VIEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 729 words


President Obama recently appealed to Christian and Jewish leaders in what was
supposed to be a private conference call, during which he suggested that his
plan for so-called health care reform is essential to the ethical and moral
obligation of looking out for one another. This raises the following question:
If health care is a moral and ethical issue as Obama says it is, why is
determining the effectiveness of a government-run health care plan not above his
pay grade? You may remember Obama refusing to say at what point life begins when
discussing the moral issue of abortion with Pastor Rick Warren. Obama suggested
that to answer the question would be above his pay grade.

It's funny to hear what Obama will say to gain political support. According to
one report, Obama said in his conference call to the church and synagogue
leaders that we are "God's partners in matters of life and death." Abortion is
also a matter of life and death for God's creation. The so-called pro-choice
advocates rationalize their views in many ways, but the truth is that the living
and developing being in a woman's body comes from God and biologically belongs
to the human race.

Obama's view that we're God's partners in moral issues can ironically be
interpreted as favoring the protection of the unborn by stopping abortions,
ensuring that those at any stage of life be allowed life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness.

Keenan Garrett, Bethany

Not now, not ever

Joseph D. Maness (Your Views, Aug. 23) wrote that we have "a moral, ethical and
religious duty to provide health care for all people." Our poor benefit from
Medicaid, Social Security, state programs and charities, among others. They
provide health care from sore throats to life-saving care. America is the most
moral, ethical and religious country in the world. We give food, medical and
financial care to people all over the world - even if they're not friendly to
the U.S.

Obamacare isn't the answer. Not now, not ever. Read the Democratic health care
bill and you'll discover for yourself that what President Obama and Congress are
saying isn't what the bill says. It's far darker. The same thing can be seen in
every piece of legislation Obama and Congress have pushed down our throats. They
believe the average American will just take their word for it. After all, why
would they lie?

Money and power corrupt. Obama and friends will leave office far richer than
they started and the country will be in real trouble. Read the bills!

Ronald Morrison, Oklahoma City

The actual number

I hear people say we have a moral and ethical obligation to take care of
everyone's health care, yet they never give specifics about what the ideological
foundation of that moral imperative is. It puzzles me because I can't find it in
any religious documents of any faith. Furthermore, they don't examine who the
uninsured are. Census Bureau figures indicate 45.7 million responders said they
were uninsured, according to a 2007 estimate.

That figure includes illegal aliens. More than 9.3 million of "the uninsured"
live in households with more than $75,000 in annual income. The Kaiser
Foundation says 10 million of "the uninsured" are eligible for the State
Children's Health Insurance Program. More than half the uninsured are between 18
and 34, a group with relatively few expensive health issues who, for whatever
reason, pay for health care out of pocket. Roughly 30 percent of those
classified as uninsured are without insurance for less than six months. The
actual number of uninsured is approximately 12 million.

Finally, the Census Bureau says that health insurance coverage "is likely to be
underreported."

Gary D. Adams, Oklahoma City

Quite a while ago

Regarding "Senator stands by felon's hiring" (news story, Aug. 22): Since
Gwendolyn Fields was intelligent enough to pursue a degree in petroleum
engineering, why did it take six felony convictions for her to "see the light"?
It would appear that her second chance came quite a while ago. Our government
appears to be rather lax about its hiring policies. If state Sen. Connie
Johnson, D-Oklahoma City, is so concerned about hiring Fields, it might be
practical to have an independent outsider oversee Fields. This would minimize
any possible bias on her part. I would also be concerned about Fields handling
any sensitive information.

G. Bolar Garrison, Oklahoma City

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

New Health Insurance Law Lets Employers Refuse To Cover Contraceptives If
They're Morally Opposed To Women

LENGTH: 508  words


Ensuring that business owners' basic freedoms remain adequately protected, a new
health insurance law passed Wednesday allows employers to refuse to pay for
contraceptives if they are morally opposed to women.


The Corporate Conscience and Ethical Protection Act, sponsored by Sen. Mitch
McConnell (R-KY), exempts businesses from including prescription contraceptives,
morning-after pills, and other forms of birth control in their employee health
plans if such companies object to females on moral or ethical grounds. According
to its backers, the federal statute permits these employers to act in accordance
with their aversion to women, thereby safeguarding their most fundamentally held
principles.
"An employer's choice to oppose women is among its most basic constitutional
rights, and one that the government must uphold," McConnell told Capitol Hill
reporters, emphasizing that Congress has no authority to impinge upon the core
beliefs of businesses that choose not to cover contraceptive drugs and devices
for a gender they do not recognize as legitimate. "Thanks to this landmark piece
of legislation, companies will never be required to conduct business in a manner
that is in any way inconsistent with their longstanding moral convictions
against all women."
"This nation was founded on the freedom to express one's beliefs in all aspects
of life, " he continued. "Therefore, the government cannot compel private
employers to do anything that undermines their firm and time-honored stance
against that particular half of the population."
The Corporate Conscience Act's legislative advocates reportedly drew the support
of thousands of industry representatives across the country, who in the past
have decried what they considered overreaching federal regulations restricting
their ability to make decisions informed by their steadfast opposition to all
individuals who are not male.
Companies ranging in size from multinational corporations to small, family-owned
retailers have asserted their right to operate according to their deeply
ingrained views against the world's mothers, daughters, sisters, and wives. Many
of these individuals told reporters that without the protections afforded by the
newly enacted law, a contraceptive mandate would effectively require them to
abandon their corporate culture, which they claim is firmly rooted in their
traditional anti-woman principles.
"This is a family company, and rejecting women has been part of the way we do
business since my grandfather opened his first location in 1948," said Eugene,
OR resident and Willamette Distributing owner Anthony Hahn, insisting that
decades spent disregarding every other human being represents a core value
system that is the bedrock of his enterprise. "Our opposition to women has
informed countless decisions we've made over the years and shaped this company
into what it is today. It impacts how we work with our customers and how we
treat our employees. And no Washington bureaucrat should be able to get in the
way." 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 28, 1983, Monday, Late City Final Edition

PRESIDENTIAL PANEL SAYS SOCIETY HAS AN 'ETHICAL OBLIGATION' TO PROVIDE EQUITABLE
ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1075 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27


A Presidential commission said today that society had an ''ethical obligation to
insure equitable access to health care'' for all Americans, even at a time of
budget cutbacks and fiscal austerity.

The 11-member commission, headed by Morris B. Abram, former president of
Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., concluded that the Federal Government had
the ''ultimate responsibility'' for seeing that this obligation was met,
although the Government did not have to be involved in the health care of all
Americans.

In a 223-page report reflecting more than two years of work, the commission said
measures to control medical costs were unacceptable if they widened inequities
in the health care system.

8 Members Named by Reagan

Eight of the panel's members were appointed by President Reagan; Mr. Abram and
two other members were named by President Carter. The report did not explicitly
criticize Mr. Reagan, but there was some implied criticism of his policies.

Cutbacks in Medicaid, including new limits on eligibility, have reduced access
to health care for many poor people, it said.  Proposals to charge Medicaid
recipients a nominal fee, such as $1 for each day in the hospital or each visit
to a doctor's office, may impose a ''substantial burden,'' it said, and they
''appear undesirable from an ethical standpoint.'' Mr. Reagan made such
proposals last year and again this year.

The commission also suggested that the Government was not meeting its ''ethical
obligation'' to families removed from the rolls of the Social Security
disability program. ''The process of 'weeding out' ineligible enrollees appears
to have become one of terminating a substantial number of beneficiaries for the
purpose of budgetary savings,'' it said.

Tax on Health Payments

But the panel said Federal tax subsidies for health insurance could be reduced,
as the President proposed, without any violation of ethical principles. At
present, when an employer pays health insurance premiums for his employees, the
payments are not counted as income for the employees. Mr. Reagan wants to tax
such payments above $175 a month for a family plan and $70 for an individual.

Such a tax, if properly designed, would not ''compromise access to adequate
health care,'' the panel said, because the tax would ''primarily affect
middle-and upper-income families.''

The report was prepared by the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical
Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research. The panel was
established by statute in 1978 and held its first meeting in 1980. Last week it
issued a separate report saying patients should generally be allowed to halt
medical treatment that keeps them alive without any hope of curing or
ameliorating their condition.

Mr. Abram, the chairman, said the report made public today ''represents the
first attempt by a Presidential commission to state a society's ethical
obligation regarding access to health care, and to do so in a way that is
realistic and achievable, rather than through grandiose rhetoric about rights.''
The commission spoke in terms of ''ethical obligations'' rather than rights, and
it observed that ''neither the Supreme Court nor any appellate court has found a
constitutional right to health or to health care.''

'Adequate Level of Care'

''The commission concludes that society has an ethical obligation to insure
equitable access to health care for all,'' the report said. ''Equitable access
to health care requires that all citizens be able to secure an adequate level of
care without excessive burdens. The cost of achieving equitable access to health
care ought to be shared fairly.''

But, the commission said, ''equity does not require equal access.'' And it
added, ''Equal health status is not a feasible goal since levels of health will
vary among individuals, even if all receive adequate care.''

The report does not specify the medical procedures required to achieve
''adequate'' care. Mr. Abram said some ''advanced procedures,'' such as kidney
dialysis or the use of an artificial heart, were not necessarily required by the
ethical precepts in the report.

One member of the commission, Dr. H. Thomas Ballantine Jr., senior neurosurgeon
at the Massachusetts General Hospital, issued a dissenting statement, saying the
report had been ''politicized to an unacceptable degree.''

Dissenter Opposes Intrusion

He agreed that there was a ''moral imperative'' for society to insure access to
health care, but added, ''I do not agree that the failures of the market, of
charity and of activities at the local and state levels have been so severe as
to warrant at this time increased intrusion of the Federal Government into the
health care sector.''

The commission said it was not proposing any new health policy initiatives, and
it had no estimate of the cost of its recommendations. Mr. Abram said the report
provided an intellectual framework for assessing the ''fairness'' of various
proposals.

The commission estimated that 34 million people were without health insurance
for all or part of the year, and it said many of them were denied equitable
access to adequate care. On the average, it said, poor people now visit
physicians as often as other people, ''but since the poor are acknowledged to
have a greater incidence of ill health, poor individuals have a greater need for
health care and should use health services at higher rates if some measure of
equity is to be achieved.''

The other commission members are Dr. George R. Dunlop, a professor of surgery at
the University of Massachusetts medical school; Dr.  Bruce K. Jacobson, of the
Southwestern Medical School; John J. Moran, of Houston; Dr. Arno G. Motulsky,
professor of medicine at the University of Washington; Dr. Baher B. Rahi, of St.
Clair Shores, Mich.; Seymour Siegel, professor of ethics and theology at the
Jewish Theological Seminary of America; Lynda Smith, of Colorado Springs; Dr.
Kay Toma, of Bell, Calif., and Dr. Charles J. Walker, of Nashville.

Copies of the report, at a cost of $6 each, can be obtained from the Government
Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2002 The Catholic University of America
                  Journal of Contemporary Health Law & Policy

                                   Fall, 2002

                      18 J. Contemp. Health L. & Pol'y 663

LENGTH: 4013 words

COMMENT: THE ECONOMIC AND ETHICAL DIMENSIONS OF HEALTH POLICY

NAME: Robert E. Moffit, Ph.D.*

BIO: * Director of Domestic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation.

TEXT:
 [*663]

   We are beginning a new century. In medical technology, we are going to
witness rapid and unprecedented changes. We can also look forward to continued
breakthroughs in biomedical science that are going to be unlike anything we have
previously imagined. Hopefully, we will also make serious and beneficial changes
in the financing and delivery of medical care, and improve the quality of
medical care for an ever larger number of patients. Altogether, these positive
developments can have a profound impact on our society, dramatically improving
the quality and character of American life well into this new century and
beyond.

   There is every reason to be optimistic. It is not only what is possible for
us, but also how we can and should achieve it. These issues are far beyond mere
budgetary questions or how best to allocate scarce public or private resources.
The central issue of this symposium is how to fashion a coherent health care
policy that will achieve the highest good for ourselves and our children, a
quality of human life consistent with the practice of virtue and adherence to
our most cherished principles, particularly personal freedom and dignity.

   We are thus back to the basics. These are the most important issues in life -
what it means to be a human being, and what is proper to the good life. We are
also back to the basic ethical questions, including the securing of good ends
through good means. A good person cannot achieve good ends any other way. In a
very practical way, sound health care policy will have to distinguish right from
wrong, good from bad, the just from the unjust. Ineluctably, these ethical
questions are the crucial questions in health care policy.

   How and in what way do we resolve these questions within the framework of our
healthcare delivery system? In my view, the correct answers to these questions
can best be achieved through the exercise of personal and economic freedom,
secured through limited governmental  [*664]  action and a market economy. n1
Economic freedom and personal freedom are inseparable. Health care, after all,
is an area where personal decision-making has a profound effect on the course of
our life and how well we live out our days. In the broader political sense, the
public policy framework we fashion for ourselves, in which that personal
decision making is to take place, will have an equally profound impact on the
overall quality of life of the members of our society.

   Consider the policy framework in which all of us, individuals and families,
must make our decisions today.

   I. AMERICA'S EXISTING HEALTH CARE POLICY FRAMEWORK

 In public policy, my colleagues at the Heritage Foundation are fond of pointing
out that the first rule of public policy is that the obvious is always
overlooked. When one surveys the course of public discussion on Capitol Hill and
in so many other areas - whether domestic or foreign policy - one feels that
this rule ought to be enshrined somewhere as an infallible truth. In any case,
the existing framework in health care policy is a given for many Americans, and
its obvious assumptions are often overlooked and its roots are neither popularly
understood nor widely appreciated.

   A. Tax-Driven Policy

 What is routinely overlooked in American health care policy is that the health
insurance markets are, to a large extent, a powerful reflection of American
federal and state tax policies. Since the 1940s, the United States has developed
a unique system of healthcare financing and delivery. We have created, largely
through the powerful instrument of the Internal Revenue Code, an employer-based
healthcare system. The way it works is very simple, tax relief, unlimited tax
relief is provided when you purchase health insurance. But you get that tax
relief on one and only one condition, that you get your health insurance policy
through your employer.

   This World War II era tax policy has profound consequences for the health
insurance market and personal decision-making in the health care  [*665]
system. n2 It means, for example, that your employer owns the health care
policy, you don't. It means that the terms and conditions of that health
insurance policy are set by the employer in negotiating with another third
party, the insurance company. You can only accept or reject the terms and
conditions of that policy negotiated between those two parties, and those two
parties reach agreements external to any relationship you may have with your
personal physician. For all practical purposes, as an individual, you cannot
change them. Ultimately, the employer has the last word. If you do not like that
last word, you can refrain from participating in the employer's health care plan
or quit your job and find an employer whose health care benefit arrangements are
more to your liking.

   Because the contract relationship is between the employer and the insurer -
defining the benefits, the terms and conditions of the delivery of health care
services, and the reimbursement of physicians - the point of decision-making in
the system is neatly confined. Because that decision-making process is neatly
confined-the relationship between the employer and the insurance company-it is
also very easy for government officials to control. It is not surprising,
therefore, that the health insurance market in the United States is one of the
most heavily regulated sectors of the American economy. Nonetheless, the
consequence of this growth in state, and recently federal regulation, is that
individuals and families have progressively less control over their health care
decisions, including health care decisions that might have a profound ethical
dimension.

   The public tax support for this current arrangement is enormous. Recall that
federal tax relief is unlimited; there is no end to the generosity of the health
care plan that can get tax free status. If, in today's dollars, you count both
the federal tax break and the state tax breaks, tax relief for health insurance
in the United States through the employer-based system exceeds $ 141 billion
dollars. It's huge. It is the 800-pound gorilla in the American health care
system.

   Curiously, this arrangement was not fashioned to create a progressive health
care policy. It was, instead, a compensation solution to a compensation problem
created by federal price controls in the 1940s, and was thus fashioned under the
exigencies of war and international emergency. This federal government decision
to give unlimited tax relief for the purchase of health insurance through the
employer was a way to  [*666]  accommodate the demands of business and labor,
whose wage negotiations were constrained by wartime price regulation. One can
look at The Congressional Record of that period and search in vain to find any
member of Congress or anyone in the Roosevelt Administration articulating a
highly developed theory that the very best way to promote broad health care
coverage and restructure the health insurance industry was to favor exclusive
tax relief for health plans purchased only at the place of work.

   B. Endless Health Care Debates

 Today, Americans are once again engaged in yet another round of intense debates
over the shape and direction of the health care system. I was particularly
intrigued by Dr. Neubauer's presentation on the seeming inevitability of serial
health care reform debates in Germany. They have clearly become a perennial
feature of our public life, both here, in Germany and in Europe generally.
(Obviously, Britain's establishment of national health insurance in 1948 has not
ended the British debate, it has only intensified it on a different level.) Just
as the sun rises in the morning and sets in the evening, one can depend on a
cycle of legislative initiatives to reform some dysfunctional feature of the
health care system. These initiatives will be enacted and within the next couple
of years, we are going to have another big debate on health care reform in an
attempt to try and fix some of the knotty problems created by the last series of
reforms.

   Why do we go through these health policy cycles? In the United States, one
obvious reason is that few of these legislative initiatives actually solve the
problems they are intended to solve, certainly not without creating new problems
that, in some cases, can turn out to be even worse than those originally
targeted for solution. In the meantime, individuals and families suffer.

   Virtually all of the major economic and financial problems of the American
health care system, including the problems of rising cost and declining access,
and now, serious misgivings about health care quality in the managed care
system, stem from the fundamental distortions in the American health insurance
market. Perverse incentives plague the system. Plus, given the inequity of the
tax treatment of health insurance, which appears to benefit high-income persons
with large benefit plans at the expense of low-income persons without employer
based health insurance; there is a profound unfairness in the current system.
(Without the tax-free income in the form of health care benefits, America's
uninsured, most of who are in working families without employer based coverage,
pay relatively higher taxes.) Instead of addressing these fundamental  [*667]
distortions in the market, we have Members of Congress arguing for patchwork
compromises that often aggravate these problems or promote an even greater
government management of the system. This, in turn, often adds to the
inefficiency or inequity of current arrangements. To borrow a phrase from the
great English writer G.K. Chesterton, that is why so much of what passes as
healthcare reform in the halls of Congress and the state legislatures is an
extravagant exercise in the "fine art of missing the point."

   C. The Practical Problems

 Meanwhile, the problems for individuals and families deepen. Beyond the routine
problems of cost and access that energize much of the health care reform
discussion, there are other problems, related directly to the loss of personal
control over health care decisions. Let me touch briefly on four related
problems.

   First, in the United States for most people with health insurance coverage,
they do not, and practically speaking, cannot own their own health insurance
policies. This means that they enjoy no portability of benefits in the
healthcare system. If you lose your job or change your job you do not lose your
life insurance, auto insurance, or homeowners' insurance, you only lose your
health insurance. You do not own the policy. The policy does not belong to you.
It belongs to the company you work for; and you and the company both get
unlimited tax breaks for health insurance as long as you get it through your
place of work.

   Second, in the United States we institutionalize discrimination in the tax
treatment of health insurance. The Internal Revenue Code discriminates against
you if you try to purchase alternative health insurance policies on the
individual market. If your employer offers you no insurance, your only practical
option is to purchase individual policies on the health insurance market. The
price of insurance on the individual market varies greatly, often reflecting the
political and regulatory environment that prevails in the different states of
the union. In some states, individual insurance is affordable; in others, it is
very expensive. But, once again, regardless of the state in which you buy
individual health insurance, you have to do it with after tax dollars, which can
make it even more prohibitively expensive. Individuals and families are often
priced out of coverage.

   We are so used to thinking in terms of the conditions of the existing system
that we cannot imagine what it would be like if things were done differently.
Use your imagination. Go home tonight, sit down and before you go to bed write
out a number of insurance products or services you can think of - life
insurance, auto insurance, homeowners' insurance - and  [*668]  imagine what
those markets might be like if we applied the same tax policy to those goods and
services that we apply to health insurance. Imagine for one moment what the
American housing market might look like if you could only get your home mortgage
if your employer selected your real estate company or defined the terms and
conditions of your housing arrangements.

   Third, in the United States individuals and families who need the most help
do not receive it. Of course, you give tax breaks to people who pay taxes. That
is understood. But, if the argument is that health-care insurance or health care
coverage is some kind of a social good and something we ought to promote, it is
odd that the greatest government assistance, in the form of tax free benefits,
goes to those who need the least help. We have no system of refundable tax
credits or premium subsidies for low-income persons who would like to buy into
the private insurance market. Indeed, there is a persistent prejudice in
Congress that such persons should not get such assistance to buy private health
insurance, but should instead be enrolled in Medicaid, a financially troubled
welfare program with a well earned reputation for poor quality care.

   Finally, in the United States, in spite of its global reputation as the
international champion of free markets and consumer choice, there is no normal
free market for health insurance. While the American system is still largely
private, it is barely so. About forty-seven cents out of every dollar spent in
the American health care system is spent by the government. Normal markets, as
commonly understood by economists and political scientists, are not operating in
the health care sector of the economy.

   To be precise: there is no normal collision of the forces of supply and
demand on the most basic level-the level of individual choice. Most health
insurance companies do not have to care what individuals think; they do have to
care about what the companies who purchase coverage for individuals think. The
"Golden Rule", in one incisive, if cynical, formulation, is that those who have
the gold make the rules. In the American system, for the most part, the customer
for health insurance and the consumer of health insurance are two entirely
different personalities. The customer is powerful; the consumer is not. For the
efficient functioning of a market this has profound impact on the way we control
costs, and on the way we pay doctors and hospitals. We do not do either as well
as we should. The reason: in health care we do not enjoy the fruits of the
normal economic efficiencies-the consumer-driven efficiencies-that drive other
sectors of the American economy.

[*669]

   D. Ethical Problems

 As noted, America is at the forefront of a major biomedical revolution. The
ethical issues surrounding this revolution are not, and practically cannot, be
confined to elite scientists or philosopher kings of the biomedical research
community. They are quickly arriving at the center of a broader public debate,
even though the public is often awed and confused by the gravity of these
issues. Public officials cannot escape them. The President of the United States
has already made a major decision concerning the use of federal funds for
embryonic stem cell research, and has convened a special presidential commission
to address the difficult problems of biomedical ethics. Likewise, the United
States Senate has initiated a major debate over the future of human cloning. The
momentous public debate has begun in earnest.

   In their personal lives, ordinary Americans will not be insulated from the
outcome of these public policy debates. Within the next few years, the very
first products of applied research from breakthroughs in the human genome
mapping project may come to fruition, and, depending on the outcome of
deliberations in Congress and the Administration, the applied research from
whatever cloning or stem cell investigations are legally permitted may also
start to find their way into medical treatments and procedures.

   Whatever the outcome of either scientific investigation or the publicly
determined legality of these investigations, the fact remains that today the
freedom of conscience of Americans enrolled in public and private health
insurance programs is not currently protected. This is evident considering the
practices of both private insurance and government agencies on matters related
to abortion, sterilization, contraception or other such procedures. These are
the most common and controversial items. But there will be others, where persons
have profound moral or ethical objections. Many Americans do not even realize
that they are often paying premiums for medical treatments or procedures that
violate their stated personal religious, ethical or moral convictions.

   Ethical questions in health care policy are invariably subordinated to either
fashionable corporate or political interests. Just this week, a member of the
New York State legislature introduced a measure to establish a new health care
mandate on health insurance in New York State. The mandate would require any
health plan offering maternity services to also offer elective abortion
services. Now whether such a bill would ultimately succeed or not is a matter of
conjecture. What is not a matter of conjecture is that the personal ethical,
moral or religious objections to medical procedures, including the practical
ability to exercise  [*670]  one's conscience in this most sensitive area of
personal life, is routinely subordinated to political fashion. One cannot
exercise freedom of conscience unless one also has the personal freedom to act
on one's conscience. But for doctors and patients alike, freedom of conscience
is being undermined. For example: doctors and nurses and hospitals officials are
under increasing pressure to perform or participate in abortion or refer for
abortion, regardless of their conscientious objection to participating in an act
which they consider immoral. In some cases hospital personnel, such as nurses,
have even been fired for opposing abortion. The Accreditation Council for
Graduate Medical Education proposed that ob/gyn residency programs provide
abortion and training in abortion procedures, stimulating Congressional
enactment of 1996 legislation to protect the freedom conscience and prevent
discrimination against health care providers from being forced to perform or
participate in abortions.

   Legislative bodies, mostly at the state level, are enacting mandates to cover
contraception in health insurance plans, and, in some cases, even for plans
sponsored by religious or religiously-affiliated institutions. In California,
for example, Catholic Charities is locked in litigation over California's
statutory imposition of mandatory prescription contraceptive coverage. In
Congress, Senator Olympia Snowe and Rep. Jim Greenwood of Pennsylvania have
introduced legislation (H.R. 1111 and S. 104) that would impose a federal
contraceptive mandate, including prescription contraceptive drugs and devices,
on health plans.

   Consider also these questions. Do patients not have the right to select
doctors who uphold the traditional Hippocratic oath? Do patients not have the
right to choose doctors who see themselves as servants of the patient, who swear
to protect their confidentiality and who refuse to sanction certain practices
like physician assisted-suicide or abortion? There are those who argue that
matters such as elective abortion or physician-assisted suicide are, and should
be, purely matters of personal choice, and not matters of either law and
government regulation. Americans will continue to hotly debate that proposition.
In the meantime, however, if we really believe that these are purely matters of
personal choice, then when it comes to insurance coverage for such procedures,
we should at least impose that value on ourselves.

   Ethical and moral questions will continue to be subordinated to political
fashion until and unless Americans open up the health insurance markets,
de-politicize health care decisions and return them to individuals and families.
If we continue to maintain the current structural arrangements in health care
policy, including the structure of government regulatory control over the
benefit decisions and where individuals and families are  [*671]  effectively
denied the opportunity to make concrete choices over health plans and benefits,
we can continue to expect the worst outcome of current policy; a violation of
our right of conscience.

   II. A NEW DIRECTION FOR FUTURE POLICY

 Who makes the key decisions in the health care system? Who makes the key
decisions about what kind of care you get, how you get it and under what
circumstances you get it? Who controls the flow of the money in the system? Ask
yourselves these questions anytime you ponder healthcare policy or healthcare
reform, especially in the context of medical or biomedical ethics. Today
employers, managed care networks and government officials make these decisions.
The role of the person and the exercise of personal choice, is in reality quite
small. Most Americans are on the receiving end of health care decisions made by
someone else.

   So what should health care reform advocates do? They should reframe the terms
and thus change the dynamics of the national health care debate. They should
also aggressively promote a positive program of expanding both personal freedom
and the personal opportunities to practice virtue. Individuals and families
should be able to operate within an economic framework where they are free to
choose what is good, and they should be free to choose life. The current
structure of third party payment inhibits that freedom.

   The good news is that there is a growing, bipartisan consensus among
professional economists and health care policy analysts, that we ought to change
the tax treatment of health insurance for the purpose not only of creating a
more efficient market, but also to expand health care coverage and empower
individuals and families to make the key decisions which affect their health
care. n3 The key policy change would be to give Americans individual tax credits
to offset the cost of their health insurance or their purchase of health care
services. This would enable them to pick and choose the plans they want, at the
prices they wish to pay. The individual, therefore, would be the key decision
makers in the system.

   Practically speaking, this means that individuals and families would make the
key decisions about the kinds of health plans they get, the kind of benefits
they get and the kind of treatments they get. This would introduce unprecedented
economic efficiency into the system through the rigorous discipline of a
genuinely competitive and consumer driven  [*672]  market. But, as I have
indicated, this is not simply a matter of economic efficiency. There is no
question that such a system would be dramatically more efficient than the system
we have today. But the most important thing is that the reform of the tax
treatment would restore your personal freedom in the system, including your most
important freedom, the right to exercise your moral conscience in the
challenging era of biomedical science and technology that is upon us.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewHealthcare
LawTreatmentEnd-of-Life DecisionsAbortionGeneral OverviewHealthcare
LawTreatmentEnd-of-Life DecisionsAssisted Suicide

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  For a more detailed discussion of this point, see Robert Emmet Moffit,
Personal Freedom and Responsibility: The Ethical Foundations of a Market-Based
Health Care Reform, 19 J. Med. & Phil. 5, 471-481 (Oct. 1994); see also, Stuart
M.Butler, Private Sector Incentives and Ethical Health Care, Ethical Dimensions
of Health Care Policy, 202-222 (Marion Danis et al. eds, Oxford U. Press, 2002).





n2.  In the limited context of this discussion, my use of the term " system"
refers to the dominant employer-based private health insurance arrangements that
cover most working Americans and their families under the age of 65. Beyond
that, the American "system" is not all that systemic.





n3.  See Grace Marie Arnett, Empowering Health Care Consumers Through Tax Reform
(University of Michigan Press, 1999).


                              10 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday
                                 Travel Edition

Government needs support in its commitment to Medicare

BYLINE: STEPHEN LEEDER

SECTION: FEATURES; Health; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 996  words


SEVERAL recent newspaper articles have drawn attention to the increasing private
financial contribution to health care, and the reciprocal decline in the
proportion of public money so spent. The rise in private hospital care for
elective surgery, supported through publicly subsidised private hospital
insurance, is the most obvious example, but the switch from public to private is
more substantial and widespread than that.

Co-payments -- what we pay in addition to rebates for medical care and drugs --
have been rising faster in Australia in recent years than anywhere else. These
changes, perhaps manifestations of ''policy drift'' rather than anything
intentional, should not go unnoticed and unexamined.

First, the ethical basis for a universally accessible, publicly funded health
care system holds that health care should be available to all who need it,
irrespective of their financial status and place of residence.

This inconvenient truth derives from valuing equity. Change the ethical basis of
health care away from universal access and you change the credibility and
strength of equity in society.

True, we could make private health insurance available to everyone -- as has
been done in Massachusetts and may soon be done in California. That would be
equitable. But it would need to be a vastly superior product to what it is at
present. The difficulty arises when, as has been the case in the US until now,
private insurance depends upon an individual's ability, or his or her employer's
willingness, to pay for it and associated co-payments. Government payment for
all private health insurance costs for those who cannot afford it would make it
a means of universal access to health care.

Second, a move away from universal access to health care is a move towards the
way health care is funded in poor societies. It despises our affluence. Most
health care in less and least developed nations is purchased privately.
Government investment in health care, as a proportion of national budgets, is
lowest in the poorest nations, and highest in the wealthiest for good and
obvious reasons.

Once health care is no longer universally available, and access is determined by
cash in the patient's pocket, population health status declines. Poorer people
do not consult for medical problems early and treatments are deferred because of
cost, both with measurable impact.

We saw that in western Sydney during the demolition of Medibank: complicated
otitis media increased as universal health cover decreased. Poorer people missed
out on care. Scripts (more even than now) were not filled.

The relation of social class to health has many layers -- and by no means all
health inequality is caused by failing to provide universal health care. But
some of it is, especially the component related to care for the sick. Much of
the inequality has to do with the inadequacy of our preventive efforts with
economically less privileged people -- a problem virtually untouched by the
private sector.

Currently we spend only about 2 per cent of the public health budget on
prevention. Its major effect is on those who need it least.

In the US, average life expectancies are lower than those for many countries
that spend half as much on health care. Those countries spread the spend evenly
rather than investing it mainly in the care of the affluent.

Third, there is the economic argument in favour of universal health care.
Politicians and bureaucrats who are tone deaf to all of life's harmony save the
lower frequencies of economic fundamentalism should have impressed upon them the
productivity gains that follow from a universally healthy country. Young adults
dying or being disabled, especially if they are of working age, are not good
looks for the economy.

For infectious diseases, chronic diseases, cancer and mental illness, a huge
package of effective, efficient preventive programs sits on the shelf of
opportunity, and investment in these strategies would be a good use of public
money, which is said to be a major concern of those wanting to return payment
for health care to individuals. Investment in prevention rather than
overindulging highly expensive, often fruitless, technological fixes (many of
which have not been shown to be effective, let alone good value for money) would
require political fortitude. But it could be dressed in the garb of economic
rationality if necessary, especially secondary prevention in the care of people
with serious and continuing illnesses.

Investment in tobacco control strategies actually produces more benefits than it
costs. This has a 14-fold greater yield in terms of death and suffering
prevented than expanding mammographic screening.

Third and closely related to the second point, it is difficult to see how our
public-private health service can optimally manage the transitions that will be
demanded by the rising tide of chronic illness in the community unless attention
is paid to more effective secondary prevention and community care. Fewer than 20
per cent of people needing co-ordinated care in the community at present receive
it.

In response to the growing investment in private health care, Prime Minister
John Howard should be supported in his strong commitment to Medicare, not
because Medicare is perfect but because it is universal in its reach. It can be
revised, improved, changed, even renamed, so long as its universality is
retained. It needs to invest in new models of care, especially for chronic
illness, to establish its competitive value.

Attendees at expensive health industry conferences and prayer breakfasts lament
the fact that Medicare is still here and that the hoped-for bonanza of
privatised health care is yet to materialise. If the Prime Minister comes to
believe that no one cares about his commitment, the outcome is predictable.

Professor Stephen Leeder is director of the the Australian Health Policy
Institute and co-director of the Menzies Centre for Health Policy at the
University of Sydney

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 1-25-04: THE ETHICIST;
Who Benefits?

BYLINE:  By Randy Cohen

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 600 words


I am a single bisexual woman who works for a university with excellent spousal
benefits. My gay male roommate has no health insurance. We have discussed
getting married so he can receive benefits through me. I like the idea of
subverting marriage, an institution that generally won't sanction the same-sex
relationships my roommate and I have had. But is this tantamount to stealing
from my employer? Is it ethical to marry for strictly economic reasons?   L.S.,
Queens

People have married for many reasons -- to gain a fortune, accumulate land,
forge an international alliance, secure a dynasty, raise children -- and even on
account of affection, a marital motive that became widespread rather late in
human history with the rise of bourgeois society. (See Jane Austen or later,
19th-century novelists.) Marrying to obtain health insurance does not seem,
historically at least, the most ignoble reason, particularly where same-sex
folks are forbidden to marry for love. Recently, at least in Western Europe,
more and more people have found none of these aims sufficient and have chosen to
forgo marriage (but not family life) altogether.

We live in a country where more than 40 million people lack health insurance and
thus reliable access to medical care. The solution to this problem is political
reform, and so I hope you are working for that (if only by supporting candidates
for public office who are). However, while awaiting utopia, your roommate might
want to do something about that hacking cough (or whatever). If marriage is his
best means to decent medical care, I see no ethical objections to you two kids'
tying the knot. Nor would you be deceiving the university if you did.

It requires only marriage, not love. If it demanded the latter, many a married
couple would lose their insurance. (And their privacy, when it came to the
impossible task of verification.)

That said, what ethics doesn't proscribe, practicality might. Should you and
your groom-to-maybe-be ever wish to part -- perhaps one of you falls in love in
Massachusetts -- divorcing could be more complicated and expensive than getting
married.

I am a state-certified mediator and arbitrator. Recently I mediated a serious
dispute to the satisfaction of both parties. One of them, an American-born
Japanese businessman, offered to send me a special fish, prepared for eating, as
a token of appreciation. I humbly refused the gift as a violation of my code of
ethics. He was hurt by my rejection of his Japanese custom, meant only to
express appreciation. Was I wrong?   Abraham Best, Lauderhill, Fla.

You were right. Acceptable business practices vary from culture to culture, and
you could argue that when in Tokyo do as the Tokyovians (Tokyoites? Tokyoons?)
do. However, you are not in Tokyo; you are in Florida and are bound by the mores
of that state (insert presidential-election joke here) and the ethics
appropriate to your profession. What's more, from the American perspective, that
code is reasonable. Your case is already resolved and you cannot be corrupted by
that fish gift, but it would be unwise to promote the idea that in future cases
(perhaps even involving this man), a gift is expected in exchange for a
satisfactory decision.

While your duty is clear, that Japanese businessman's hurt feelings are worthy
of consideration. (Why does our concern with conflicts of interest trump the
Japanese business ethics of gratitude and strengthened social ties?) And so you
must assure him that your actions reflect local custom; they do not imply
cultural superiority and certainly not a personal criticism.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           Crain's Cleveland Business

                                  May 24, 2010

Broker payments scrutinized;
Aultman suit raises ethical questions about health insurance industry's extra
incentives

BYLINE: SHANNON MORTLAND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0003

LENGTH: 854 words


Some call it the health insurance industry's dirty little secret, but a trial in
Stark County is bringing it to the forefront.

At issue are extra payments made by Aultman Health Foundation to insurance
brokers to steer more business to the foundation's AultCare health plan,
McKinley Life insurance group and Aultman Hospital. Competitor Mercy Medical
Center is suing the foundation, claiming its extra $9 million in payments to
brokers drove about $200 million in revenue to Aultman and 1,740 employer groups
to its insurance plans.

The Ohio Department of Insurance has been asked by the Stark County Common Pleas
Court to determine if Aultman Health Foundation broke any Ohio insurance rules,
said Robert Denhard, a spokesman for the insurance department.

But if Aultman broke the law, it wouldn't be alone. Some industry watchers say
the payments, also known as overrides, that go beyond traditional commissions
are extremely common and can be lucrative for the brokers who accept them.

Every health plan pays every broker substantial overrides, said J.B. Silvers,
chairman of the Department of Banking and Finance and a professor of
epidemiology and statistics at the Weatherhead School of Management at Case
Western Reserve University.

Indeed, Tim Sobolewski, an independent broker who owns Integrity Benefits
Network Inc. in Brunswick, said insurers approach him daily with cash incentives
to sell their products to his clients.

The carriers offer large amounts of money to incent people to put business with
them, Mr. Sobolewski said. The money can get quite substantial if you're in bed
with the big insurers. I know people who are making thousands.

Game time

Many of the insurers contacted declined to comment for this article. While
Medical Mutual of Ohio Inc. would not answer questions regarding payments to
brokers, it issued a statement that said: Medical Mutual does not provide unique
broker incentives. Our commission structure has long been in line with industry
standards and equally distributed to the independent insurance agents who sell
our products.

A spokeswoman for Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield in Ohio said override
payments are paid only to brokers for managing an agency or for performing other
administrative services, and not for steerage purposes.

Dave Petro, a broker with Accelerated Benefits in Hudson, said overrides vary
depending on what the insurer is trying to accomplish, but they typically are
presented as an incentive for each person the broker places with the insurer.

Because people and companies buy insurance based on price and services included
in a plan, insurers' premiums are very comparable, Mr. Petro said. However, the
override payments help brokers set plans apart from one another, he said.

Dr. Silvers agreed.

If you don't pay the override, if you don't play the game, you don't get
compared with everybody else to the client. The client never sees you, said Dr.
Silvers, who previously was the CEO of the now-defunct University Hospitals
QualChoice health plan and now sits on the board of SummaCare.

They all play the game - not one, but all of them, he said.

Though the override payments are not a secret that is purposely kept from
clients, Dr. Silvers said clients often don't ask how much a broker is paid or
in what fashion. He said many small companies and government entities still buy
their employee health insurance through a broker or consultant and they probably
don't know what it costs them.

Although the override payments don't necessarily show up on the cost breakdown
for a health plan, they are part of the total cost of doing business for the
insurer, said Paul Nachtwey, vice president for Todd Insurance brokerage in
Beachwood, who also worked for Medical Mutual and Blue Cross and Blue Shield for
18 years.

While override payments are still around, they aren't as common as they were a
few decades ago and they are not a problem for ethical brokers who choose not to
accept those payments, Mr. Petro said.

Yes, some bonuses do occur, but the ethical broker keeps an eye on what's best
for the client, he said. If you're not ethical and you just try to play with who
pays the best commission, you're going to move your clients around all the time.

Clients will tire of the instability and will take their business to a different
broker, Mr. Petro said.

Mr. Nachtwey agreed and said customers will take their business to an agent they
believe is doing the right thing for them. He said he often obtains new clients
because, in their eyes, their previous brokers didn't understand their needs.

Still, Dr. Silvers contends the insurance market is greatly affected by the
bonus payments. It is the biggest single indicator of why (health care) reform
needed to be done, he said.

The health care reform bill will force states to create health insurance
exchanges, or marketplaces where the uninsured will be able to shop for
competitively priced health insurance as a group. The exchanges, slated to begin
operating by 2014, should eliminate some side deals between brokers and
insurers, Dr. Silvers said.

Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cl


                      Copyright 2010 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            January 12, 2007 Friday
                                National Edition

Lack of OHIP may kill St. Lucia migrant: Illegally in Toronto: Medical ethicists
debate extending Ontario's benefits

BYLINE: Natalie Alcoba, National Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 687  words


A St. Lucia woman living illegally in the Toronto area will die unless she has a
costly heart surgery that would otherwise be covered by provincial health
insurance, says her volunteer physician.

Doctors have told the 67-yearold that something is seriously wrong with her
aortic valve and it could trigger a stroke or, eventually, sudden death.

But because she is among tens of thousands of people living in Canada without
"status," the only way to get the care she needs is to pay for it -- with money
she does not have.

It's a case that pierces the heart of an ethical quagmire facing a health care
system founded on principles of universal access.

Toronto ethicist Jennifer Gibson said hospitals in the GTA are increasingly
asking themselves: "Do we have an obligation to provide care for these people?

"When someone walks in with a clinical condition, that doesn't depend on whether
or not you're insured, it's reality. It's a fact of life," said Ms. Gibson, with
the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics. For the past
year-and-a-half she has been engaged in a comprehensive study of organizational
ethical issues facing 14 health care providers in the GTA, and access for the
uninsured emerged as a major concern.

For the St. Lucia woman, her lack of registration under the Ontario Health
Insurance Plan could mean "she'll die, unnecessarily," said Dr. Paul Caulford,
the head of Family Practice at The Scarborough Hospital and a volunteer
physician at a Scarborough clinic for uninsured immigrants and refugees.

"If she had that simple eight digit number, she would be in the hospital getting
surgery in two weeks," he said at the clinic this week before prescribing
medication that will ease the St. Lucian's condition.

She agreed to allow the National Post to tell her story on the condition that
she not be identified. She is afraid she will be deported, but she is more
afraid of what will happen if she does not get care.

"I don't want to die here because my children cannot afford it," she said.

Ms. Gibson said hospitals must weigh concerns of legality versus morality, not
to mention a responsibility to account for how they spend taxpayers' dollars.

"They feel an enormous amount of moral angst because they see the need, they
have the resources but whose going to pay for it?" Different hospitals are
dealing with it in different ways, in some cases electing to assume the costs
and provide the care.

A spokesperson for the Ontario Ministry of Health pointed out that eligibility
for Ontario health insurance coverage is based on holding an acceptable
citizenship or immigration document. "The Health Insurance Act contains no
provisions authorizing the use of discretion in determining eligibility for
health insurance coverage," the ministry indicated in an e-mail.

Those who do not qualify for public health insurance may pay for it themselves
or they could seek treatment at Community Health Centres, which provide primary
health care. Some may qualify for coverage under the Interim Federal Health
program. Under the Public Hospitals Act, a hospital "has a duty" to provide
emergency treatment to anyone and does not distinguish between insured and
uninsured, the ministry said.

But that leaves hordes of "walking sick" -- like the undocumented St. Lucian --
whose only legitimate access to life-saving treatment seems to come when it is
practically too late.

"We've been fighting for years, writing letters to the Health Ministry, trying
to get the situation changed on humanitarian grounds and we've gotten nowhere,"
Dr. Caulford said.

In the examination room, Dr. Caulford tried to appease his patient's fears. But
he does not hide the fact that this woman's life is in danger if she does not
get the care she needs soon. Her condition is known as aortic stenosis, which is
the narrowing of the main heart valve. Eventually it will prevent blood from
flowing to the rest of her body. She could suffer a stroke at any time and if
the valve is not replaced in the next year, she could die. The entire procedure,
including postoperative care, could cost anywhere from $20,000 to $50,000, said
Dr. Caulford.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo : Colin O'Connor For National Post; Dr.  Paul
Caulford checks a patient at the Volunteer Uninsured Immigrant  and Refugee
Clinic in Toronto. The patient, who does not want to be  identified, has a fatal
condition -- narrowing of the main heart  valve -- but cannot afford to pay for
a heart operation.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2007 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 August 4, 2008

Ethics panel may back universal coverage, ponders access as a "moral imperative"

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Aug. 4, 2008

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 9 Vol. 51 No. 29

LENGTH: 864 words



HIGHLIGHT: A presidential committee explored the ethics of health system reform
and plans to release a report later this year.


  A panel appointed by President Bush that met here in June appears set to
endorse some form of societal obligation to provide health care access to all.

The meeting was part of the President's Council on Bioethics initiative
examining the ethical underpinnings of approaches to reforming the nation's
health system and covering the estimated 47 million uninsured Americans. A
report is likely to be issued after the November election.

Bush established the council in November 2001 to advise him after his decision
to deny federal funds for research using newly created human embryonic stem
cells met with fierce opposition. The council's first chair, Leon Kass, MD, PhD,
primarily focused the group's attention on the ethical implications of
scientific advancements such as cloning and assisted reproductive technology.

But in remarks before the panel in June, current chair Edmund D. Pellegrino, MD,
made clear that he believes health system reform also has ethical dimensions.
"What kind of society do we want to be?" he asked. "Are our values reflected in
the way we've authorized and delivered this element of the flourishing of human
beings?"

In an interview, Dr. Pellegrino said the goal of the council is not to recommend
any political party's plan but to lay out in "an orderly, systematic and
critical way" the ethical implications of various approaches on access to care,
medical innovation, and individual freedom and responsibility.

"We will not be lecturing people on what's right and wrong," said Dr.
Pellegrino, a spry 88-year-old widely recognized as a father of bioethics and
the founding editor of the Journal of Medicine and Philosophy.

Despite Dr. Pellegrino's view, there was plenty of pushback from members of the
conservative-leaning council.

Health system reform is "a black hole -- once you get in it, you never get out,"
said Gilbert Meilaender, PhD, professor of Christian ethics at Valparaiso
University in Indiana. "The more we try to fully elaborate all the principles
that might be involved in reforming the health care system, the more hopeless
and black hole-ish things get."

Carl E. Schneider, JD, a bioethicist at the University of Michigan, agreed,
saying the council -- composed primarily of physicians, ethicists and legal
scholars with little expertise in economics or health policy -- was out of its
depth. The reform plans are "all based on data and empirical evidence that we
are entirely incompetent to evaluate," he said.

Meilaender said the council might be able to argue that providing care to those
who cannot afford it is a "moral imperative." A majority of the council seemed
to agree that society has a duty to provide everyone with access to health care.

A draft of the council's report notes "growing support for the claim that the
problem of the uninsured is a moral problem for a prosperous society that
strives to provide some measure of equality of opportunity."

The major split, the report said, comes when discussion moves to "how best to
solve this problem." That division was reflected in panelists who spoke before
the council on behalf of options such as a Massachusetts-style, individual
health insurance mandate and a more market-oriented approach.

Steffie Woolhandler, MD, MPH, argued that the single-payer model prevails around
the world in countries that provide better access to care at lower cost than the
U.S. system. "I think single payer is the only morally acceptable reform choice,
because it's the only effective one on the table," said Dr. Woolhandler, a
primary care doctor who co-founded Physicians for a National Health Program in
1986. "If we're concerned about the 18,000 deaths a year due to uninsurance,
then we are morally obligated to go with a plan that has been shown to work."

Other panelists were reluctant to declare their proposals morally superior, and
there was no apparent consensus among council members about which proposal would
best improve access to care.

Laurie Zoloth, PhD, director of the Center for Bioethics, Science and Society at
Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, attended the
council meeting as an observer. She believes, based on panelists' discussions,
that the panel will issue a report endorsing the principle of universal access
to care. She said the statement would mean a lot coming from a panel appointed
by Bush.

"The more people who say universal health care is a moral imperative, the better
our society is," she said.

Last fall, the AMA's Ethical Force Program published an essay in the Hastings
Center Report outlining a consensus framework for reform proposals. According to
the report, reforms should ensure that everyone has adequate health care
benefits established through an ethical process in a system that is financially
sustainable over time and makes clear the responsibilities of doctors, patients,
payers and society.

At its June Annual Meeting, the AMA House of Delegates adopted policy seeking to
replace the tax deduction for employer-provided health insurance with tax
credits and an exemption for health insurance spending from state and federal
payroll taxes. Expanding coverage for the uninsured also tops the AMA's
legislative agenda.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                          October 13, 1999, Wednesday

Ethical drill: dental as anything

BYLINE: DOROTHY ILLING

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 467 words


VISITING the dentist might not be the ideal pastime. Sometimes it's not ideal
for the dentist either.

In fact, a recent survey by the University of Queensland arts faculty gives an
insight into the types of ethical dilemmas dentists often face in the workplace.

They range from patient requests for the dentist to defraud the health system,
to their insistence on a general anaesthetic for every procedure.

The research conducted by philosopher William Grey with dentistry lecturer
Suzette Porter reveals that some dentists are not happy with the professional
standards of some colleagues.

The findings are yet to be finalised, but the ethical problems identified so far
have been grouped into seven categories.

These are: problems arising from dealings with other members of the profession,
those concerning health insurance funds, quality of treatment, inappropriate
treatment requests, the advertising and commercialisation of dental practice,
fee-related dilemmas, and other problems.

Associate Professor Grey, who teaches professional and applied ethics, said the
first category -- problems relating to other dentists -- was the largest,
particularly the perception that patients were arriving with poor prior dental
work.

A number of respondents hinted that some of their colleagues were prepared to
cut corners.

Having patients poached was another problem cited.

He said 34 per cent reported problems related to dental health insurance. The
most common of these was patient requests to falsify receipts.

Professor Grey said those who responded appeared to have a high level of ethical
consciousness.

"Certainly there are a lot of very honest, openly expressed concerns about the
quality of treatment," Professor Grey said.

The survey took the form of a questionnaire distributed to about 500 registered
dentists in Queensland, 200 of whom responded.

It included case examples relating to informing patients of treatment plan
alternatives, overservicing, requests to falsify receipts, substandard treatment
and patient requests for inappropriate treatment.

It also included questions about where and how dentists source their ethical
values and advice, and the most frequent problems they face.

Professor Grey said dental practice was a difficult area on which to reach
consensus within the profession.

"All you have is a pain inside your mouth and you are pretty dependent on the
advice of the professional on what to do about it."

He hoped they could conduct follow-up research using focus groups to identify
with more precision the profile of problems that arose for dentists.

He might also use it as a model for developing ethical audits for other
professions.

The project was funded by a $10,600 grant from the Australian Research Council.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 1999 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              16 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 16, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

'Bioethics' Burgeons, and Along With It Career Opportunities

MICHAEL SCHRAGE

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE F3; MICHAEL SCHRAGE

LENGTH: 782 words


In these tough economic times, are you looking for a career with a guaranteed
future? A well-paying job in the fastest-growing sector of the economy? The
chance to be on the cutting edge of technological innovation without actually
having to have technical expertise?

Then consider becoming a bioethicist. The hours are good; compensation can reach
into six figures and you never, ever have to worry about running out of
big-budget ethical dilemmas.

Should that baboon liver be transplanted into the AIDS patient? How about pig
livers for alcoholics? Should health insurance pay for the abortion that yields
the fetal tissue that a daughter donates to help treat her father's Parkinson's
disease? Precisely when does a parent have the right to ask a doctor not to
resuscitate a dying child?

Increasingly, these are the sorts of questions that bioethicists are called upon
to help answer. Advances in medical technology ensure that these questions will
only become more complex and more important.

"Just the Human Genome Project alone is the Full Employment Act for
bioethicists," says Arthur L. Caplan, director of the University of Minnesota's
Center for Biomedical Ethics, referring to the effort to map genetic diseases
and traits.

Caplan estimates that there are about 2,000 bioethicists, mostly drawn from the
academic ranks of theology and philosophy. "The field began in the embrace of
the theologians," he says, "as part of theological attempts to deal with such
issues as abortion, brain death and euthanasia."

Twenty years ago, these ethical questions challenged society's preconceptions of
life and health. Today, ethical precedents in medicine can have enormous
economic consequences. If a procedure is deemed "ethical," such as in vitro
fertilization, a new medical industry can be created. An ethical dismissal --
baboon heart or liver transplants, perhaps -- could stop a potential medical
juggernaut in its tracks.

More than three-quarters of the nation's 120 medical-academic centers have
bioethicists and many hospitals now have their own "boards of ethics" to review
procedures. But does the public want the medical establishment regulating its
own ethics? Or will a market for ethical expertise begin to flourish as ethical
concerns and economic constraints continue to clash?

Several states -- including New Jersey, New York and Colorado -- have funded
"bioethics commissions." Clearly, health insurance companies need to have
bioethicists on call, perhaps specializing in areas such as transplants, gene
mapping and reproductive technologies. And the utilization review companies will
want bioethicists for evaluating insurance issues. Pharmaceutical and medical
device companies would probably be well-advised to have ethicists on staff to
anticipate tough questions their innovations will surely generate.

Of course, labor unions may need bioethicists to ensure that health plans are
being fairly applied, and maybe groups such as the American Association of
Retired Persons will want bioethicists to represent their interests to the
medical community. Let's not forget the judicial system, with its plethora of
health-related litigation.

"The emergence of the bioethics expert in the courtroom has just begun," says
the University of Minnesota's Caplan.

Adds Lawrence Gostin, executive director of the American Society of Law and
Medicine: "I think ethics is becoming a commodity, and that's becoming a
problem. While we like to think about the ethical consequences of new
technologies, we have never thought about the ethical consequences of having an
ethics industry."

For example, both Caplan and Gostin are concerned about whether there will
ultimately be state or federal licensing of bioethicists. Should ethicists have
legal training? Medical training? Theological training? Or philosophical
training? While about 20 universities offer degrees in bioethics, the field can
hardly be described as coherent.

Regardless, this is a field with a bright future. It's a bit analogous to the
recent explosion in intellectual property law. A decade ago, patent and
copyright law was something of a legislative backwater. As courts enforced
property rights and companies came to realize the value of intellectual property
assets, activity in the area exploded.

Similarly, ethical questions have moved from the periphery to the very center of
both economic and social concerns. What's more, ethical advice is always going
to be cheaper than medical treatments. For that reason alone, the job market
prospects for tomorrow's bioethicists look a lot healthier than the people they
advise.


Michael Schrage is a columnist for the Los Angeles Times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              17 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 1997 Seton Hall University School of Law
                             Seton Hall Law Review

                                      1997

                           27 Seton Hall L. Rev. 887

LENGTH: 2338 words

THE FIFTH ANNUAL HEALTH LAW SYMPOSIUM: COMMUNITIES OF COLOR AND GENETIC TESTING:
PURPOSE, VOICE, & VALUES: ARTICLES & ESSAYS: Genetic Testing, Nature, and Trust

NAME: Anita LaFrance Allen *

BIO:



   * Associate Dean for Research and Professor of Law and Philosophy, Georgetown
University Law Center.

 TEXT:
 [*887]


   I.

 The United States Human Genome Project is a billion-dollar commitment to
"analyzing the structure of human DNA and determining the location of the
estimated 100,000 human genes."  n1 The genome project aims to decode the
complex sequence of hereditary instructions contained within DNA to determine
which genes are responsible for what physiological functions throughout the
human lifespan. Part of an international genome initiative, the United States'
initiative is expected to cost an estimated $ 200 million per year for fifteen
years.  n2 Officials at the National Institutes of Health predict that
scientists will complete the sequencing of the human genome early in the first
decade of the twenty-first century.  n3

    The timely progress of the genome project has intensified the need for
careful discussion of its applications. Genetic science has already produced
reliable techniques of prenatal diagnosis, paternity testing, and forensic
identification. A paramount aspiration for gene science is that its medical
applications will dramatically improve the ability to prevent, predict, treat,
and cure serious disease and disorders.

    Science inspires hope, but also fear.  n4 Developments in gene science have
prompted predictions that human beings increasingly will "play God," interfering
with nature by genetically reengineering the natural world. Although few people
object to the goal of reducing the risk of early onset debilitating diseases,
many object to genetic manipulation seemingly aimed at cleansing the human race
of medically and socially imperfect people. Gene science has led to fears that
the future, like the [*888]  past, will be marked by eugenics and intolerance.

    Another major fear prompted by human genetics is fear of lost privacy.  n5
Genetics science indeed augurs diminished privacy. In the wake of privacy
losses, comes the potential for social stigma, discrimination in employment,
barriers to health insurance, and other problems.  n6 For people and communities
of color, privacy loss is particularly worrisome, because stigma,
discrimination, and barriers to health insurance are ubiquitous anyway. My
greatest philosophical concern is that novel applications of gene science,
including genetic testing, could become pervasive before appropriate ethical and
legal safeguards are in place to protect valued forms of privacy. Moreover, the
splendid benefits of science could blind society to some of its social costs,
lowering expectations of privacy below levels philosophers describe as just and
ethical.

    The fate of privacy in our age of science is mainly, but not solely, a
[*889]  worry of ethicists, heath-care providers, and lawyers. Public awareness
of genetic policy problems is limited. But opinion polls suggest that the
general public views threats to privacy as significant issues. Because of what
Dorothy Nelkin calls the "social power" of information,  n7 personal privacy
merits protection from employers, insurers, researchers, heath-care providers,
schools, businesses, and government.

   II.

 The delivery of genetic services to members of racial minority groups raises
important questions. I would like to highlight two such questions. First, in
view of the past mistakes of the scientific and medical communities,  n8 can
anyone fully trust scientists to study non-white Americans without racial bias?
Second, can health-care providers adequately serve non-white Americans, knowing
that many are uneasy about science, formal medicine, and explorations of human
health and intellect?  n9 Recent service as a member of the National Institutes
of Health's National Human Genome Research Institute's National Advisory Council
for Human Genome Research (NCHGR) brought these questions into sharp relief. As
a member of the Council, I frequently reflected on the implications for minority
groups of the nation's portfolio of scientific, social scientific, and
humanistic research relating to genetics. A number of leading experts agree that
a policy emphasis on genetic testing should be closely examined for its warrant
and risks.

   III.

 What are we really like? What are our biological natures? How are we different
from one another? Questions of this ilk have their origins in wonder about
"God's creation." Yet knowledge of the answers that scientists and scholars once
gave to questions like these may make some people of color less anxious to
listen to current experts and quite unable to trust them.

    The history of human achievement has been marred by the dissemination of a
good deal of scholarly and scientific nonsense about inherited [*890]  traits. A
case in point is the set of texts purporting to report on the biological
characteristics of the disparate races of humanity. One such text, selected at
random, is an article on the "Negro" published early in the present century in
the thirteenth edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica.  n10 Citing learned
authorities the article asserted that: "Mentally the negro is inferior to the
white."  n11 The Negro is subject to "indolence" and "lethargy" perhaps due to
"premature closing of the cranial sutures and lateral pressure of the frontal
bone" or because, "after puberty sexual matters take the first place in the
negros's life."  n12 Negroes "far surpass white men in acuteness of vision,
hearing, direction and topography."  n13 But the Negro is like "a child,
normally good-natured and cheerful, but subject to sudden fits of emotion and
passion during which he is capable of performing acts of singular atrocity ...."
n14 When it comes to hair, the Negro is like neither the white man nor the
higher ape; for those two have true hair, whereas the Negro head is capped by a
kind of wool, a "woolly" or "frizzly" pile capable of being felted.  n15
Finally, "the recognized leaders of the [Negro] race are almost invariably
persons of mixed blood, and the qualities which have made them leaders are
derived certainly in part and perhaps mainly from their white ancestry."  n16

    Have the "scientific" images of persons of African descent contained in the
quoted passages been utterly eradicated from science, from scholarship,
health-care, from popular culture, and from ordinary belief? Geneticists now
know that there is no race blood and no single race gene. But there are people
on the lookout for evidence that Blacks are genetically inferior to Whites in
intellect and that Blacks have criminal proclivities fixed in their genetic
make-ups.  n17 My impression is that many people of color do not trust science
or scientists. When it comes to genetics, one impediment to trust may be the
cultural gap between the creators of gene science and the consumers of gene
science. Regardless of race and sex, we are all potential consumers of genetic
information. But the creators of genetic information, the researchers, are
mainly men, and mainly White. The people with the largest labs, who receive the
[*891]  largest federal grants, who hire and train the young scientists and
doctors are mainly men and mainly White. Heath-care is multicultural, science is
less so.  n18

    Closing the demographic gap between scientists and consumers could make a
difference in the willingness of the public to trust scientists and their
products. So, too, could a greater voice in public issues. I experienced keen
disappointment when I learned a few years ago how few top gene scientists had
bothered to speak out against claims that science showed that reproduction by
poor minority women was lowering the average IQ.  n19 I heard some scientists
explain their silence by saying that they were not interested in popular
politics and that they thought the distortion of research by popularizers was
too obvious for comment. But those responses left me feeling betrayed and
abandoned.

    The history of racism in science and scholarship demands that researchers
react vocally to claims about the implications and uses of their pure research.
Science is the interpretation of nature. I believe many African Americans are
understandably ambivalent about nature, their place in it, and the enterprise of
its interpretation. Blacks of my generation spent our childhoods hearing mostly
from Whites that we are lazy by nature, less intelligent by nature, more prone
to moral corruption and criminality than Whites by nature, more impulsive, more
dependent, promiscuous, and more prone to noxious diseases than Whites by
nature. We grew up afraid of ourselves, secretly ashamed of ourselves, but
suspicious and resentful of scientific and clinical interpretations of our
natures.

    Scientists can make mistakes. We know that what is deemed knowledge in one
generation can look like superstition and prejudice in another. This Symposium
contains a great deal of information about the misuses of science and scientific
information relating to genetics, about the potential for clinical abuses, and
about government complicity. In a positive, forward-looking vein, the Symposium
contains ideas about how heath-care professionals and researchers can serve
people of color in good faith.

    Some kinds of genetic testing, evaluation, and screening can be useful. For
example, when a child is born with multiple abnormalities, genetic testing can
confirm a diagnosed syndrome and thereby secure more appropriate heath-care. But
as the Symposium demonstrates, at least four key issues surround the evaluation
of genetic testing: (1) whether genetic testing practices are based on accurate
information and research, rather [*892]  than on myth, stereotype and prejudiced
interpretations; (2) whether society provides equity in access to genetic
testing with clear health benefits; (3) whether the delivery of genetic testing
and other services is voluntary and appropriately respects the dignity, privacy,
and confidentiality of individuals and families; and (4) whether there can be
equal respect for the choices people of color make on the basis of genetic
information, especially if those choices are different from the choices whites
make. I have listed four multifaceted issues. This excellent symposium promises
to identify and develop even more.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Insurance LawIndustry RegulationUnfair Business PracticesDiscrimination

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Nat'l Inst. of Health, U.S. Dep't of Health & Human Services & U.S. Dep't
of Energy, Pub. No. 90-1590, Understanding Our Genetic Inheritance - The U.S.
Human Genome Project: The First Five Years FY1991-1995 (April 1996).




n2.  See id. at 7.




n3.  See id. at 1.




n4.  See generally Anita L. Allen, Genetic Privacy: Emerging Concepts and
Values, in 1 Genetic Secrets (Mark Rothstein ed., Yale Univ. Press 1997).




n5.  See id.




n6.  See generally Nancy E. Kass, Insurance for the Insurers: the Use Of Genetic
Tests, 22 Hastings Center Rep. 6 (1992) (discussing genetic testing and its
effect on health insurance applicants/claimants); Regina H. Kenen & Robert
Schmidt, Stigmatization of Carrier Status: Social Implications of Heterozygote
Genetic Screening Programs, 68 Am. J. Pub. Health 1116 (1978) (discussing latent
psychological and social questions surrounding genetic screening programs that
must be answered before national genetic screening program plans progress);
Joseph Kupfer, The Ethics of Genetic Screening in the Workplace, 3 Bus. Ethics
Q. 17 (1993); Jennifer Landes, Genetic Testing Thorny for Insurers: Privacy
Issues vs. Value of New Information, in Nat'l Underwriter - Life and Health
Insurance Edition 3 (1992) (outlining how genetic testing advances while
informative may be cost and public outcry prohibitive); Marc Lappe, Ethical
Issues in Testing for Differential Sensitivity to Occupational Hazards, 25 J.
Occupational Med. 797 (1983); J.A. Lowden, Genetic Discrimination and Insurance
Underwriting, 51 Am. J. Hum. Genetics 901 (1992); Naomi Obinata, Genetic
Screening and Insurance: Too Valuable an Underwriting Tool to Be Banned from the
System, 8 Santa Clara Computer and & High Tech. L.J. 145 (1992) (discussing
policy and ethical considerations of insurers use of genetic testing); Susan
O'Hara, The Use of Genetic Tests in the Health Insurance Industry: The Creation
of a Biologic Underclass, 22 Sw. U. L. Rev. 1211 (1993) (noting perceived
probable health insurance industry discrimination of applicants based on genetic
testing); Judy D. Olian, Genetic Screening for Employment Purposes, 37 Personnel
Psychol. 423 (1984) (noting genetic screening in employment placement and policy
considerations surrounding such practice); Gilbert Omenn, Genetic Testing and
Screening: Predictive and Workplace Testing, in Encyclopedia of Bioethics
(Warren T. Reich ed., Simon & Schuster 1995); David Orentlicher, Genetic
Screening by Employers, 263 JAMA 1005 (1990) (caution warranted in the use of
the "human genome project" results in employment placement); Harry Ostrer,
Insurance and Genetic Testing: Where Are We Now?, 52 Am. J. Hum. Genetics 565
(1993) (discussing the impact of the abuse of genetic information by the
insurance industry); Mark A. Rothstein, Genetic Screening in Employment: Some
Legal, Ethical, and Societal Issues, 1 Int'l J. Bioethics 244 (1990) (discussing
policy and ethical considerations surrounding genetic screening in the
workplace); Mark A. Rothstein, The Genome Project and Employment Law, in Legal
and Ethical Issues Raised by the Human Genome Project 366 (Houston Health Law &
Policy Institute 1991) (noting genetic discrimination in employee placement).




n7.  Dorothy Nelkin, The Social Power of Genetic Information, in The Code of
Codes: Scientific and Social Issues in the Human Genome Project 170, 170-90
(Daniel H. Kevles & Leroy Hood eds., Harvard Univ. Press 1992).




n8.  See generally James Jones, Bad Blood: The Tuskegee Syphilis Experiment
(Maxwell Macmillian 1993); Edward J. Larson, Sex, Race, and Science: Eugenics in
the Deep South (John Hopkins Univ. Press 1995).




n9.  See generally The Bell Curve Wars: Race, Intelligence, and the Future of
America (Steven Fraser ed., 1995); Richard J. Herrnstein & Charles Murray, The
Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life (1994).




n10.  19 Encyclopaedia Britannica 344 (13th ed. 1926).




n11.  19 Id. at 344.




n12.  19 Id.[fcns.




n13.  19 Id. at 345.




n14.  19 Id.




n15.  19 Encyclopaedia Britannica 344, 344 (13th ed. 1926).




n16.  19 Id. at 346.




n17.  Joseph S. Alper & Jonathan Beckwith, Genetic Fatalism and Social Policy:
The Implication of Behavior Research, 66 Yale J. Biology & Med. 511 (1994);
Dorothy E. Roberts, Crime, Race, and Reproduction, 67 Tul. L. Rev. 1945, 1948
(1993).




n18.  See Daniel Sarewitz, Science, Technology, and the Politics of Progress
(Temple Univ. Press 1996).




n19.  See generally Jones supra note 8.


                              18 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            Crain's Detroit Business

                            October 23, 2000, Monday

UM Medical School one of last to establish bioethics program

BYLINE: Jeffrey Kosseff, Special to Crain's Detroit Business

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 503 words


The University of Michigan Medical School recently became one of last of the
nation's top medical schools to institute a bioethics program.

UM medical professors have taught ethics classes previously, but the school
opened its interdisciplinary bioethics program last month. The program will
teach and examine topics such as surrogate decision makers, access to health
insurance and assisted suicide.

''The university has been at the forefront of many issues in biomedical science,
and the program could raise the red flag if any ethical issues come up,'' said
Susan Goold, director of the program and assistant professor of internal
medicine. ''We've been teaching classes on bioethics, but we hope to expand
educational efforts.''

Goold will hire three professors who have joint appointments in other Medical
School departments in the next year. In addition to expanding the number of
bioethics courses available to medical students, the program's faculty will
teach residents, research bioethical issues and serve on ethics committees.

''This is really an organizational year,'' Goold said.

The faculty will study a wide range of bioethical fields, from hot issues such
as assisted suicide to more common topics such as uninsured patients, Goold
said.

Goold wants to address both everyday ethical issues and emerging topics, but she
doesn't want to practice ''headline ethics,'' in which the center would only
study pop-culture issues such as cloning.

''How often do doctors confront requests for assisted suicide? Very rarely,''
Goold said. ''How often do doctors confront issues like surrogate decision
making or how to communicate bad news to the patient? That's much more frequent.
Cloning hasn't even hit humans yet. It's just in sheep.''

Access to health insurance provides interesting ethical dilemmas to doctors,
Goold said.

''Let's not just focus on the dramatic ethical quandaries. For patients and
doctors, access to health care is a huge moral issue,'' Goold said. ''How am I
going to get this patient the insulin he needs?''

While there may be ''modest needs for growth'' in the number of bioethics
programs, the field is ''on most people's radar screens,'' said Howard Brody,
former director of and professor at Michigan State University's Center for
Ethics and Humanities in the Life Sciences, which started as a program in 1977
and became a center in 1988.

''I would be loath to say we need to grow this field in any major way,'' Brody
said.

Bioethics programs are addressing conflicts of interests that stem from drug
companies' influence on doctors through research funding, Brody said. Drug
companies are increasingly funding research that the government and nonprofits
had previously sponsored.

''What are the appropriate limits on gifts that doctors accept from drug
companies?'' Brody said. ''To what extent are doctors being influenced?''

Medical breakthroughs such as the Human Genome Project will present new
challenges for bioethicists, Brody said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Crain Communications, Inc.


                              19 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday

Kinship faked for kidney donations

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: OSAKA


A number of cases have been discovered in which patients in need of kidney
transplants have falsified their relationship with donors to meet the ethical
guidelines of the Japan Society for Transplantation, which approves organ
transplants between patients and their relatives.

In the most recent case, a patient who received a kidney transplant at a
hospital in Uwajima, Ehime Prefecture, and his common-law wife were arrested on
suspicion of illegally purchasing a kidney. They claimed the donor was the
wife's younger sister.

As the case followed on the heels of another in which a patient married a donor
to meet the society's guidelines for transplant, a number of hospitals have set
stricter regulations than those of the society to prevent similar incidents.

According to Shigekazu Haruki, a 65-year-old psychiatrist of Matsue who
counseled patients in need of kidney transplants at the Kidney Center of Tokyo
Women's Medical University, a middle-aged woman requiring a kidney transplant
married a man to act as a donor about 10 years ago.

Suspicious of the couple's story, Haruki repeatedly held counseling sessions
with them prior to the transplant. At about the same time, Haruki received a
letter from the patient's former husband, saying the patient and donor had
married because of the transplant.

According to the letter, although the former husband had planned to donate a
kidney, he was unable to do so due to physical reasons. The patient then
discussed the issue with a male friend at an alumni reunion, resulting in the
man offering to donate his kidney. The patient then divorced her husband and
married her potential donor.

Haruki said the couple and the former husband initially plotted the scenario
together, but they seemed to have had financial troubles, and the transplant was
eventually canceled.

In another case, a gang member brought a young man he claimed was his adopted
son to the hospital as a donor. According to Haruki, the young man nervously
explained: "I owe my father-in-law a debt of gratitude. So I want to give him my
kidney."

When Haruki asked the young man when he was adopted, he gave a different date
from the one recorded on his family registry. Six months later, the two gave up
on the transplant and disappeared, Haruki said.

The ethical guidelines stipulate that donors should be relatives within the
sixth degree of blood kinship or within the third degree of matrimonial kinship.
If an intended donor does not meet the criteria, the decision whether to approve
the donor rests with ethical committees at hospitals.

Kyoto University Hospital has approved as donors relatives of fourth degree
blood relationship or closer in exceptional cases.

In one case at the hospital, a donor who claimed to be a cousin of a patient was
found to have no kinship, leading the hospital's ethical committee to stipulate
in 2005 that donors should be blood relatives within the third degree of kinship
or spouses of patients.

Hospital probed over fraud

OSAKA--The Ehime Health Insurance Bureau decided Wednesday to inspect an Ehime
Prefecture hospital on suspicion it used misappropriated public money to perform
surgeries, including a transplant of an illegally purchased kidney.

Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital in Uwajima in the prefecture is suspected to have
provided its patients with only a verbal explanation of the procedures involved
in a kidney transplant, failing to present the required written explanation.

When one of any 24 types of operations, including kidney transplants, are
performed using public health insurance, the hospital in question is required to
provide the patient with an explanation of the surgery in writing.

If insurance officials determine the hospital failed in this duty, the bureau
likely will order the hospital to repay the incurred fees, which could reach
into several tens of millions of yen, greatly affecting the hospital's
management.

According to the insurance payment system, which was revised in April, hospitals
must fulfill four conditions to receive public health insurance money to cover
the costs of any of the 24 operations, which also include lung, esophageal and
prostate cancer surgeries, and heart bypass surgery.

Hospitals are also expected to make public the number of such operations
performed at their institutions over the previous year.

Only after meeting the four requirements and reporting to health insurance
bureaus, hospitals are allowed to request medical costs be covered by public
health insurance.

Hospitals are required to attach copies of documents given to their patients in
their medical records.

Under the system as it was between fiscal 2004 and 2005, hospitals that failed
to meet these standards were allowed to receive up to 70 percent of the surgery
costs from the insurance scheme.

However, it was revealed during a press conference Monday the hospital had
failed to provide written explanations to its patients or obtain written consent
for any of the 82 kidney transplant operations performed by urology department
head Makoto Mannami since April 2004.

This means the hospital issued fabricated payment requests to the Ehime Health
Insurance Bureau as it had failed to meet the requirements.

According to the bureau, payment agreements are revoked when a hospital is
discovered to have failed to meet the requirements.

The revocation also will affect requests other than kidney transplants, leading
the bureau to ask the hospital to repay all the insurance payments used to cover
any of the operations since April, and at least 30 percent of the payments made
between fiscal 2004 and 2005.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                              July 31, 2016 Sunday
                                 First Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: EXTRA; Letters; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 628  words


Food for thought

It was encouraging to read the article on the increased attention companies are
giving to ethical options in producing their consumer goods ("Buying better",
July 24). It was also pleasing that an international survey revealed 66 per cent
of respondents were willing to pay more for products and services that came from
companies committed to positive social and environmental impact. However, the
ongoing problem facing consumers is the credibility of advertising which
promotes so many "healthy", "organic", "natural" and "ethical" products, and
whether they can believe or understand the information provided on labels. There
are too many unsubstantiated claims in advertising. Even Unilever, which
received praise in your story, was fined by the ACCC for falsely claiming its
Paddle Pops complied with the Healthy School Canteen Policy. Ethical options in
business need to be matched by ethical advertising.

Rob Phillips North Epping

'Privatisation' profits

Why is the federal government supporting private health insurance profits
instead of directing money to Medicare or hospitals and health services?
("Average earners face private health pressure", July 24) Looks like further
privatisation to me.

Graeme Finn St Peters

Politically incorrect

These are sad times when voters are swayed more by the looks and personality of
politicians than their character and ideals ("VP choice is safe but boring",
July 24). There seems to be an increasing trend for superficiality to rate
higher than quality. It is understandable that the young are taken in by
celebrity status, but breathtaking that those with a greater experience of life
are not more discerning.

Graham Lum North Rocks

The American way

It has been said America gets the statistics it deserves - now there is a real
possibility it will also get the President it deserves ("Donald Trump isn't the
saviour of America", July 24).

Alicia Dawson Balmain

Affordable homes

By limiting areas of concern to four, perhaps because of space, the article on
low home ownership ("Low home ownership: Four areas of concern", July 24), you
have only considered the ones that seem to gain attention. Sitting behind the
issue of housing, both ownership and rentals, is the matter of affordable stock
that provides opportunities for people to live within their means. The emerging
area of concern is the relationship between affordability and the difficulty of
people being able to afford excessive rent and still maintain their place in
society. Inclusionary zoning requires developers of large residential properties
- 20 units or more - to set aside a percentage of units for low/moderate income
households. This provides a commercial benefit to the developer in the knowledge
that the additional affordable dwellings are sold to a community housing
organisation who then undertakes the management. Some Sydney councils have
already adopted such schemes, however, piecemeal or ad hoc conditions are
insufficient to enable a consistent approach to be taken. If the community are
to genuinely make a contribution to making housing, both ownership and rental,
affordable then governments can play their role by mandating inclusionary zoning
in planning decisions. The issue is for the whole community and our desire
should be to work together for the common good.

Allan Gibson Cherrybrook

Keeping an eye on teen drivers

Perhaps parents should consider installing an inwards facing Dash Cam in their
teen's car as a condition of letting them drive so their every action - and that
of their passengers - is recorded ("Crackdown on P-platers after spike in fatal
accidents", July 24). The mere ability of their parents to be able to review how
they actually behave as a driver may keep their actions in check.

Jon Petelczyc Floreat

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON by: Matt Golding

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                            February 9, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Is this health plan really the best way?;
COMMENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 348 words


WHEN Fine Gael was seeking power at the last election, the party promised us
that it would transform our health service by introducing Universal Health
Insurance. This pledge was contained in the programme for Government, which
stated that UHI would create a 'singletier system'.

As it became increasingly clear that this pledge was in fact utter pie in the
sky, then Health Minister James Reilly began to focus more on his promise of
free GP care for all. We would have this in place by 2016, he insisted.... even
as his UHI White paper was being torn to shreds by the experts.

The free GP care scheme was due to be rolled out in 2012 but (EURO)15 million
set aside was reallocated to shore up the HSE budget deficit. Another (EURO)15
million was allocated in 2013. And we still have no free GP care for anyone.

Initially, the Government had intended to offer free GP care to 60,000 people
with long-term illnesses during the first phase. Ministers then admitted this
would present all manner of legal problems: instead, they announced, they would
do it based on age.

Now, as one GPs' organsiation tells its members to boycott the under-6s scheme
on ethical grounds, while another warns that it will need more resources
(usually meaning cash), we have to ask whether it is indeed appropriate for the
government to keep ploughing on with a policy which, while a great vote-winner
with parents, does raise some difficult ethical questions.

Why should a wealthy five-year-old with a sniffle be seen for nothing, while a
middle-class seven-year-old with far more serious health problems has to pay
every time? Is a piecemeal approach, buying off problems as they spring up,
rally the best way to build a proper Irish Health Service? Or would be be better
served to stop, think, and engage all our health professional in coming up with
a plan for a proper health system, free for all who need it at the point of
delivery? Such a move would require political courage: but the prize of creating
a truly first-class health service for all our citizens, regardless of their
means, is surely worth the risk.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2015 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 20, 2001, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR : SHOULD WE PUT A PRICE TAG ON FRAGILE NEWBORNS GETTING;
HIGH-TECH CARE?

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1059 words


I am writing in response to the Jan. 13 article, "Medical Miracles raise
questions about the value of life, the cost of care." The Post-Dispatch should
be questioned for printing a front-page story that discusses the ethics of using
advanced technology in a neonatal intensive care unit and the dollar impact of
such intervention on the Medicaid program.

Proper debate about this ethical area should not be limited to the care
delivered to babies covered by Medicaid, as implied in your article.

Overall, the article by Diana Aitchison appropriately studies the ethics of
applying expensive advanced technology to saving extremely ill babies. Public
debate about this issue is healthy and will probably never go away.

We will always be advancing some frontier, and families will always insist that
we do so. Needless to say, the equipment required by frontiers tends to be
expensive.

Unfortunately, the article focuses too much on the burden this cost places on
our state Medicaid program. Is saving the child described in this article more
controversial because her care is reimbursed by a state program?

Should we as taxpayers feel more solace if the same article had been written
about one of countless similar stories involving private reimbursement? For both
ethical and economic reasons, the answer to these questions is a resounding
"no"!

From an ethical standpoint, none of us aspires to make life-and-death decisions
based on the type of health care plan.

From an economic viewpoint, the costs of both private and government health
plans unavoidably trickle down to us as consumers and employees.

Is this a front-page story because the expanding Medicaid budget is being blamed
for our state's budget shortfall? I would encourage Aitchison to perform a
breakdown of the Medicaid budget. She may be surprised at the relatively small
amount that this state devotes to the care of its children. With a little more
research, she may see that the $ 50 million used to save hundreds of lives in
these neonatal intensive care units compares quite favorably with $ 300 million
requested for the inflationary increase in the costs of pharmaceuticals over
last year.

It is essential that as a civilized nation we do not see this ethical issue as a
taxpayer problem, but as a societal one. The degree to which we employ expensive
technologies should never be discussed in the same breath as which payer will be
responsible for reimbursement. Let us engage in a healthy debate on the extent
to which we employ these measures without re ference to families' incomes or
type of insurance coverage.

Randall A. Clary, M.D.

Associate Professor of

Otolaryngology and Pediatrics

Washington University

Chesterfield

The between-the-lines judgment whether Deja Williams deserved the same care
afforded any baby, whether receiving Medicaid or not, is inexcusable.

Doctors and nurses who have to make minute-to-minute decisions about what is in
a baby's best interest do not, and should not have to factor in the cost of
delivering appropriate care. When a person's loved one has cancer, do we make a
life-or-death decision based on the cost of the treatment?

Because infants cannot voice an opinion about their futures, does it mean they
don't deserve appropriate medical care, whatever the cost?

As a neonatal nurse at Cardinal Glennon Children's Hospital, I see first hand
how much these doctors agonize over doing the right thing for each individual
baby. I am sure that Dr. F. Sessions Cole and his team took their decisions
regarding Deja's care very seriously. Unfortunately, his comments were buried at
the end of the article.

He and all of the neonatologists across the country must continuously evaluate
each baby as an individual person and make decisions about withdrawing or
continuing support based on the infant's ability to have a reasonable chance of
intact survival.

They have to counsel these parents and help them to face the reality of their
child's potential for a meaningful life each and every day. Although some of
these babies discharged from the neonatal intensive care unit are deemed less
than perfect by our society, they have great value to their families.

And what about those success stories? Perhaps your paper would like to write
about how the statistics for intact survival of these "micro-preemies" has
skyrocketed in the past 10 years. We often see amazing outcomes in babies just
as premature as Deja was.

Unfortunately, Deja's course was very difficult for her and her family. Did you
bother to ask her mother if it was worth it? Can any of you hold that baby in
your arms and see her smile and say it wasn't? How can we as a society place a
price tag on a child's God given right to life?

Instead, we should be looking at ways to reduce costs of care by attempting to
reduce these high-risk pregnancies in the first place. If managed care put any
emphasis on programs aimed at promoting healthy pregnancy and the general health
of women, our infant mortality and morbidity would drop accordingly. That could
eliminate the need for babies to pay the price of poor health care with their
lives.

Maggie Vogt, RN

St. Louis

We all know where the Post-Dispatch stands on the value of an unborn baby's
life. But according to the Jan. 13 article, now you have resorted to questioning
the value of premature babies born with high-cost medical needs.

I found it very disturbing to ask whether it is wise to spend money on a
premature baby born with a 50 percent chance of developing complications later
in life. Fifty percent means that there is just as good a chance that this baby
will not develop other complications.

If money is being "wasted" on these premature babies, then what about babies
born with a heart defect, or babies born deaf or blind? While we're at it, we
could take away the funding for the care of babies born with Down syndrome.

The Kevorkian-like tone of the article suggests we put a dollar value on the
life and health of a baby born less than perfect.

We all want the best care and latest medical resources at our disposal when
faced with medical needs. A baby, whether unborn, born too soon or carried full
term, is still a person in need and deserving of medical resources.

Julie McDonagh

Oakville

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              23 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

WISCONSIN RALLIES TO RECALL WALKER

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 909 words


The campaign to recall Gov. Scott Walker and Lt. Gov. Rebecca Kleefisch, which
began this week, is backed by Democrats. But it cannot and should not be merely
a Democratic project. The Walker-Kleefisch administration has attacked
collective bargaining rights, public education, public services and voting
rights for all Wisconsinites.

Independent voters, Greens, Libertarians, Democrats and Republicans have
suffered as the result of the administration's economic, ethical and moral
failures.

Every Wisconsinite has a stake in ending the damage that the governor is doing
to the economy with policies that have caused unemployment to rise at a
dramatically greater rate than in the rest of the nation - spiking from 7.3
percent early in Walker's governorship to 7.8 percent now. Unlike most
neighboring states, Wisconsin is actually shedding private-sector jobs because
of Walker's inept approach and reliance on political cronies rather than
economic development professionals.

Similarly, every Wisconsinite has suffered as a result of the Walker
administration's ethical meltdown. The home of one of the governor's chief
political appointees was raided by the FBI, his chief of staff quit two days
after it was revealed that the governor's office had arranged for the subject of
the FBI raid to get a new $100,000-a-year job, and the governor's press
secretary has sought immunity in a John Doe probe that has seen a top donor to
the governor's campaigns admit to felonious violations of campaign finance laws.

Finally, every Wisconsinite suffers when the politics and policies of the state
are warped so that budgets are balanced on the backs of the most vulnerable
people rather than with resources from those who can afford to pay. While Walker
and his allies have reduced taxes for out-of-state corporations, they have
slashed spending on public education (90 percent of school districts have been
forced to reduce staff and services for the state's children) and are now trying
to disable health insurance programs established by former Republican Gov. Tommy
Thompson. The Walker administration wants to eliminate coverage for 65,000
Wisconsinites (25,000 of them children). At the same time, the governor wants to
increase health insurance costs for 250,000 Wisconsinites. Both those moves will
increase the costs for taxpayers, as emergency rooms become last-resort
providers of health care for thousands of Wisconsin families.

Gov. Walker is a failure.

He is an economic failure.

He is an ethical failure.

He is a moral failure.

His record demands that Walker be recalled and removed from office - not out of
spite or anger with the governor, and not for the purposes of partisanship or
ideological advancement. He should be removed in order to revitalize Wisconsin's
economy, to restore Wisconsin's ethical tradition, and to recognize that budgets
must be balanced in the interests of all Wisconsinites.

The same goes for the recall of Walker's rubber-stamp lieutenant governor.
Kleefisch has cheered on the worst of the governor's economic policies with an
enthusiasm that suggests she could be even more delusional than her boss when it
comes to understanding the importance of promoting job creation, aiding small
businesses and supporting family farmers.

Walker and Kleefisch simply do not get where Wisconsin is coming from, and where
it should be going.

That's not a partisan statement. That is a reality, grounded in the evidence of
their time in office.

Wisconsin has been badly damaged by Walker.

Its renewal will require an all-hands-on-deck response that invites Democrats
and Republicans, Libertarians and Greens, independents and political newcomers
to lend their support.

It is with this in mind that we are pleased that so many Wisconsinites are
rallying to support the recall drive. Thousands will gather Saturday at the
Capitol for the We Are Wisconsin rally, which will begin at 11 a.m. at the State
Street entrance. Keep track of the organizing at www.wearewisconsin.org.

We are pleased, as well, with the approach taken by organizers of this Friday's
Recall Walker rally at the Barrymore Theatre on Madison's east side. Organized
by the independent Recall Walker campaign (www.recallwalker.org), which
describes itself as "a nonpartisan political action committee inclusive of
independents, Democrats, Greens, Libertarians, and Republicans," the rally will
feature speakers including former Wisconsin Attorney General Peg Lautenschlager,
former Green Party legislative candidate Ben Manski, and current legislators
such as state Rep. Cory Mason, D-Racine, and Assembly Minority Leader Peter
Barca, D-Kenosha. It starts at 7 p.m.

Wisconsin AFL-CIO President Phil Neuenfeldt will speak, as will public-education
advocate Erika Wolf and Capital Times associate editor John Nichols. The Sean
Michael Dargan Band will play. The Raging Grannies will sing.

"It's true that the Democratic Party is heavily involved in the recall effort,
but there are also many independents and members of other parties who support
the recall," says Randy Bryce, a Racine County labor activist and Recall Walker
PAC treasurer, who will be among the speakers Friday night. "RecallWalker.org
will support the broadening of the recall movement."

Bryce's emphasis is in the right place.

The movement to recall Scott Walker and Rebecca Kleefisch can and must be
broad-based, inclusive and focused not just on removing failed politicians but
on renewing Wisconsin's promise.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Long Island Business News (New York)

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday

NY state audit: Long Island pharmacy billed for fake prescriptions

BYLINE: Claude Solnik

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 447  words


A pharmacy in Rockville Centre improperly collected at least $235,000 from
Medicaid and the New York State Health Insurance Program over four years,
primarily through phony prescriptions, according to a state audit.

The audit found that Davis Ethical Pharmacy, before pharmacist William Davis
sold it in December 2011, collected money for prescriptions never delivered to
patients, including some supposedly written by a physician who had already died.

New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli said auditors found the improper
payments in an audit from Jan. 1, 2008 to Dec. 13, 2011.

They randomly sampled 840 of 59,538 claims paid to Davis Ethical by Medicaid and
NYSHIP, the insurance plan for government employees, valued at around $7
million.

The audit resulted from allegations made in October 2011 to the Office of the
State Comptroller alleging Davis Ethical was being paid for medications that
weren't prescribed or dispensed.

Calls to the pharmacy, under new ownership, weren't returned and efforts to
contact Davis were unsuccessful.

Many prescriptions were processed outside normal business hours, including three
between 11 p.m. and midnight, according to auditors.

"Although it is reasonable to expect a limited number of prescriptions to be
processed outside of normal business hours, we question why nearly half of the
improper prescriptions were processed after normal hours," auditors wrote.

The pharmacy, during the period covered by the audit, implemented an electronic
system to record customer signatures when they picked up medications and
employee signatures when they delivered medications to customers.

But auditors said there were no electronic signatures from customers or
employees for 51 percent of the 89 prescriptions filled after the system was
implemented.

There were electronic signatures for the remaining 44 prescriptions, but
auditors said they weren't able to verify their authenticity.

"We question why there were no signatures for the pick ups/deliveries of half of
the prescriptions tested," auditors wrote.

During the audit period, Medicaid paid Davis Ethical $776,849 for 7,053 claims,
including some auditors found to be unsubstantiated.

A review of claims filed through NYSHIP found $139,796 worth of overpayments for
148 of 573 prescriptions tested.

These included $56,392 for 58 prescriptions where NYSHIP members weren't even
patients of the person listed as the prescribing physician.

Auditors also found $71,462 for 67 other prescriptions physicians say they
didn't make, although the customers were their patients.

http://www.libn.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Regulatory

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                             August 1, 2006 Tuesday

Doctors attack 'inhumane' insurers;
Ethics fear over contracts limiting patient visits and referrals

BYLINE: Agnes Lam

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 464 words


The Medical Council of Hong Kong and doctors' unions have accused health
insurance firms of imposing "inhumane" contract conditions on doctors that are
against medical ethics and patients' interests.

They have also warned doctors that complying with unethical terms could leave
them open to disciplinary proceedings.

David Fang Jin-sheng, who chairs the council's ethics committee, said the
constraints affected the quality of patient care and posed a serious ethical
problem.

"We are very concerned about this, as the market share of the companies
concerned is quite big," Dr Fang said yesterday.

The Hong Kong Doctors' Union has received 50 complaints about unethical contract
terms in six months.

The union's president, Henry Yeung Chiu-fat, estimated that 60 per cent of the
2,000 members were affected by the measures which, among other things,
restricted the number of repeat visits by patients and specialist referrals.

"This is inhumane," he said. "Doctors should give patients treatment they need.
The government keeps telling the public to buy medical insurance and get a
family doctor. But what kind of quality health insurance do we have now?"

Examples of   the constraints include asking doctors to maintain the repeat
visit rate of their general practitioner and specialist services below 10 per
cent and 15 per cent respectively.

Contract doctors are also required to maintain a specialist referral rate below
10 per cent and diagnostic test referral rate below  5 per cent.

"According to these terms, if a doctor has 100 patients  only 10 can make repeat
visits. As for doing tests, if a doctor has 20 patients, only one patient can
undergo the tests. This is totally unacceptable," Dr Fang said.

The council will send a letter to all registered doctors to remind them to
scrutinise medical contracts and schemes to ensure that they are ethical and in
the best interests of patients. It also warns doctors that joining these schemes
with such constraints may infringe  on their profession's code of conduct.

"Doctors should be reminded that contractual constraint is not a defence to
disciplinary proceedings for provision of substandard medical services to
patients. Their licence might be revoked in serious cases," Dr Fang said.

The council, the Hong Kong Medical Association  and the doctors' union urged
doctors who have signed such contracts to review the terms with their health
insurance companies.

Damien Marmion, managing director of BUPA Health Insurance, said the contract
terms  were not restrictions.

"These are only indicators used for performance measurement of our doctors.
Doctors can treat patients with their own judgment and choose not to follow
these terms, and they will not face penalty. These terms are unrelated to
medical ethics," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 20, 1977, Monday, Final Edition

Doctors, Nurses Study Medical Problem Ethics

BYLINE: By B.D. Colen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C2

LENGTH: 769 words


Dr. Joseph S. Drage is chief of the developmental Neurology Branch within the
National Institute of Health.  A specialist in the developmental disorders of
children, he helps decide what research projects will be approved and funded by
NIII.  Joseph Drage is one of a handful of individuals to whom we turn for
direction in the area of health care in this country.

Last week Drage and 48 other physicians and nurses with similar positions left
those positions and responsibilities to study ethics, and the application of
ethics to medical problems, at Georgetown University.

Through the invitational Intensive Course in Bioethics presented by the Rose and
Joseph P. Kennedy Institute for the Study of Human Reproduction and Bioethics,
many for the first time had a chance to examine the formal discipline of ethics,
which provides us with formalized systems for judging right and wrong, good and
evil.

"This has broadened the horizon," said Drage, on his way to the last sessions of
the course - the panel discussion on treatment of handicapped newborns and the
lecture on perspectives in law and ethics.

"This improves your ability to look at things in a broader perspective," he
said.  "These are some of the issues I have to deal with in my work at NIH, and
this gave me a chance to examine the philosophy" behind them.  The course
provided the participants with "lines of thinking of what's ethical and what
isn't."

Until very recently the belief prevailed that major societal problems should be
solved by those members of society with expertise in the problem being
discussed.

Economists and actuaries were charged with working out the details of national
health insurance, physicians with deciding who should or or should not be kept
alive with various medical technologies, and penologiests with deciding whether
prisoners should be used in medical experimentation.

Within the past 10, and particularly the past five years, there has come a
growing awareness that each of these, and a myriad of other basic questions that
face society, are ethical, rather than technical, in nature.

"The purpose (of the Kennedy Institute course) is to create a number of people
in positions of leadership who will become acquainted with the forms of ethical
arguments," said Dr. Andre Hellegers, a physician/ethicist who heads the
Institute.

"We want to acquaint people with the forms of ethical argument," he continued,
"otherwise they will not understand the nature of the kinds of questions being
asked by the public.  For instance, by what means are the allocation of medical
resources being done?  Should it be ends oriented or means oriented?  By what
methods would you judge - the number of lives saved?"

"You must first understand the methods and then decide whether one method would
be more ethical than another method," said Hellegers.

The six days of formal lectures and informal discussion groups, paid for by the
Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation at a cost of about $18,000, included such
topics as:

Utilitarianism, the school of ethical thought that is most commonly held to
espouse that which is useful is right, or, even more simplistically put, that
the ends justify the means.

Deontological theories, which hold that some acts are right in and of
themselves, regardless of their consequences.

Concepts of health and disease, an examination of the ways in which society has
viewed disease at different points in history, and the fact that the ways
society has viewed particular diseases has effected their treatments.

The rights of patients and professionals, an examination of the ways patients'
rights and health professionals' rights come into conflict and how those
conflicts might be resolved.

Ethical issues in the care of the mentally retarded, which included a discussion
of the question of whether, if all the "retarded" individuals in society were
eliminated, society would pick a new group to call "retarded."

One of the main purposes of the course, said Hellegers, was to teach the
participants that "there is such a thing as a professional ethicist."

When faced with a major problem in their home institution, such as whether it is
right to carry on a particular research program, Hellegers hopes those who took
the course will "know that when there's a discussion to be led they'd better get
a professional ethicist."

"I would hope that someone comes out of this course and, if there's a problem
where he's faced by a tricky feeling in the gut, that he picks up the phone,"
not to be told what to do, said Hellegers, but to be helped to see "what the
options are."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1977 The Washington Post


                              27 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             August 1, 1997 Friday
                                  Late Edition

AMA vows to continue campaign

BYLINE: Louise Dodson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 297 words


The Australian Medical Association yesterday vowed to continue its campaign
against health funds striking deals with private hospitals.

However, the health funds see such agreements as vital to securing their future
and arresting the plunging rate of fund membership, which has fallen from 44.6
per cent of the population in March 1990 to 32.5 per cent in March 1997.

The brawl between the doctors and the private insurance industry over this issue
is heating up, with the AMA's Victorian president, Dr Gerald Segal, yesterday
predicting that contracts "will kill private health insurance".

National Mutual Health Insurance is leading the charge in making agreements
between doctors and health funds to cap costs.

It expects to finalise negotiations on a series of agreements this month.

Dr Segal said the AMA was "entirely opposed" to the strategy.

The AMA would "continue to inform the public in Australia, who will make their
choice between a good ethical patientÂ¿doctor relationship and rationing by an
economist bureaucrat", Dr Segal saidyesterday.

However, the managing director of NMHI, Mr Garry Richardson, yesterday described
the AMA's comments as "a diversionary tactic".

He denied any intention to interfere in the patientÂ¿doctor relationship,
arguing NMHI was "trying to drive out waste in the private hospital system".

NMHI's research had shown that the two major problems identified by members with
regard to insurance was the cost of premiums and out-of-pocket expenses, he
said.

Both of these could be contained if costs were capped in agreements between the
health fund and doctors, Mr Richardson said.

He challenged the AMA executive to "get off its soap box", to accept the need
for change and to present a vision on how to preserve the patient-doctor ethical
relationship.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: Health funds are seeking agreements with individual hospitals.
Picture: MICHELE MOSSOP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1997 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                            July 24, 2013 Wednesday

Misappropriation of insurance funds - just an ethical issue?

BYLINE:  Umair Aziz

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 21

LENGTH: 595  words


Nothing appears to be more 'emergent and important' than the health of the
father of Punjab Education Department Human Resource (HR) Deputy Managing
Director (DMD) Amir Iftikhar Ahmad who allegedly misappropriated Rs 300,000 from
the department's emergency health insurance funds which were gathered by the
department's employees through a monthly installment.

A PEF official told Pakistan Today, "The DMD transferred the total amount of the
emergency allowance into his personal account for the medical treatment of his
father. During this time employees made several requisitions to acquire funds
from the pool but their request was rejected time and again by the DMD, making
one excuse after another."

The official informed that the matter surfaced at a meeting held by PEF Chairman
Raja Anwer who had been on medical leave. Different heads of departments brought
the matter to the knowledge of the chairman over the "blatant misuse" of power
and authority.

DEPRIVED:

Sources reveal that the hard earned money of the department's employees was not
made available to the employees themselves in the need of the hour.

One of the employees also dispatched an application, a copy of which is
available with Pakistan Today, to the Punjab chief secretary, secretary
education, chief minister's monitoring teams and various other high government
offices, explaining the matter in detail.

A handout issued by PEF HR Department to its employees indicated that the
contract for the ongoing year was given to Adamjee Insurance Company to cover
medical expenses of its employees, for which monthly installments are deposited.
The company has an emergency pool of a maximum of Rs 5,000 for each employee to
cover emergency medical expenses.

SAVING THE SKIN?

Sources told Pakistan Today that the PEF employees fear that senior officials in
the department were trying to save Amir's skin.

While Amir was instructed by the chairman to deposit the entire amount back into
the account, some senior employees were of the view that anybody involved in
'misplacing' funds should be dealt with strictly instead of being pardoned after
returning the amount.

"The PEF deals with donation money coming from international agencies and doles
out money to schools across Punjab. This will imply any officer misusing funds,
if caught, can get away with handing the money back with no accountability,"
said a senior officer.

According to the PEF chairman, "Even the National Accountability Bureau (NAB)
offers fraudsters to deposit back money acquired by unfair means." He further
stated that no one has the authority to withdraw those funds except the Finance
DMD, so misusing public money is out of the question.

JUST AN ETHICAL ISSUE?

DMD (Finance) Salman Anwer confirmed that Amir did not withdraw any money from
the fund but transferred health insurance money meant for all employees into his
account. "It is more of an ethical issue," he said.

To a question, he said Amir was responsible for selecting the insurance firm on
behalf of all the employees every year. "Investigations have been completed and
the amount has been deposited back into the account," he added.

DMD (HR) Amir Iftikhar confessed that he did use health insurance money for his
ailing father's treatment but not public money. "It is our understanding with
the insurance company that if we need more money, we can take it from them and
can return it later," he said.

To a question, he said no one was denied claims for insurance money. "It is
grossly incorrect if any employee claims that his requisition for emergency pool
remained pending."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                            July 24, 2013 Wednesday

Misappropriation of insurance funds - just an ethical issue?

BYLINE:  Umair Aziz

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 21

LENGTH: 595  words


Nothing appears to be more 'emergent and important' than the health of the
father of Punjab Education Department Human Resource (HR) Deputy Managing
Director (DMD) Amir Iftikhar Ahmad who allegedly misappropriated Rs 300,000 from
the department's emergency health insurance funds which were gathered by the
department's employees through a monthly installment.

A PEF official told Pakistan Today, "The DMD transferred the total amount of the
emergency allowance into his personal account for the medical treatment of his
father. During this time employees made several requisitions to acquire funds
from the pool but their request was rejected time and again by the DMD, making
one excuse after another."

The official informed that the matter surfaced at a meeting held by PEF Chairman
Raja Anwer who had been on medical leave. Different heads of departments brought
the matter to the knowledge of the chairman over the "blatant misuse" of power
and authority.

DEPRIVED:

Sources reveal that the hard earned money of the department's employees was not
made available to the employees themselves in the need of the hour.

One of the employees also dispatched an application, a copy of which is
available with Pakistan Today, to the Punjab chief secretary, secretary
education, chief minister's monitoring teams and various other high government
offices, explaining the matter in detail.

A handout issued by PEF HR Department to its employees indicated that the
contract for the ongoing year was given to Adamjee Insurance Company to cover
medical expenses of its employees, for which monthly installments are deposited.
The company has an emergency pool of a maximum of Rs 5,000 for each employee to
cover emergency medical expenses.

SAVING THE SKIN?

Sources told Pakistan Today that the PEF employees fear that senior officials in
the department were trying to save Amir's skin.

While Amir was instructed by the chairman to deposit the entire amount back into
the account, some senior employees were of the view that anybody involved in
'misplacing' funds should be dealt with strictly instead of being pardoned after
returning the amount.

"The PEF deals with donation money coming from international agencies and doles
out money to schools across Punjab. This will imply any officer misusing funds,
if caught, can get away with handing the money back with no accountability,"
said a senior officer.

According to the PEF chairman, "Even the National Accountability Bureau (NAB)
offers fraudsters to deposit back money acquired by unfair means." He further
stated that no one has the authority to withdraw those funds except the Finance
DMD, so misusing public money is out of the question.

JUST AN ETHICAL ISSUE?

DMD (Finance) Salman Anwer confirmed that Amir did not withdraw any money from
the fund but transferred health insurance money meant for all employees into his
account. "It is more of an ethical issue," he said.

To a question, he said Amir was responsible for selecting the insurance firm on
behalf of all the employees every year. "Investigations have been completed and
the amount has been deposited back into the account," he added.

DMD (HR) Amir Iftikhar confessed that he did use health insurance money for his
ailing father's treatment but not public money. "It is our understanding with
the insurance company that if we need more money, we can take it from them and
can return it later," he said.

To a question, he said no one was denied claims for insurance money. "It is
grossly incorrect if any employee claims that his requisition for emergency pool
remained pending."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Asia News Network (ANN)

                              June 6, 2017 Tuesday

FM nominee's confirmation grows tougher

BYLINE: Jung Min-kyung

LENGTH: 561  words


Kang Kyung-wha, nominated to become South Korea's first female foreign minister,
is considered an embodiment of an "alpha female" with a resume that includes
serving as special policy adviser to the United Nations secretary-general.

However, the country's most prominent female diplomat currently faces an uphill
confirmation battle.

Opposition lawmakers are determined to grill the 62-year-old nominee over
allegations of ethical lapses at a hearing Wednesday.

The main opposition Liberty Korea Party has already demanded Kang to give up on
becoming minister. If she does not, the conservative party, which controls 107
seats of the currently 299-seat parliament, said it would stop her from taking
the job.

"Kang is receiving so many legal and ethical suspicions which makes it difficult
for her to earn the trust of the nation," said Liberty Korea Party Rep. Yoon
Young-seok, who sits on the parliamentary foreign affairs committee.

"Either President Moon Jae-in needs to retract his decision or Kang has to drop
out."

Lawmakers from other opposition parties -- namely the People's Party and Bareun
Party -- are also intensifying their criticism against the nominee, determined
to block her from taking the post. Kang's appointment does not require a
parliamentary confirmation vote.

Kang has been under scrutiny for irregularities such as the registration of a
false address for her daughter's education, tax evasion, real estate
speculations and a free ride on the national health insurance. The media has
been digging up dirt based on bold accusations by opposition lawmakers.

The nominee has personally apologized for using a false address to get her
daughter into her alma mater, but stood firm on other accusations. Her taxes
were paid in full after the announcement of her nomination and the accusation of
her free riding on health insurance was cleared by the relevant government
authority.

Now, new allegations have surfaced focusing on a real estate property in South
Gyeongsang Province owned by her daughters worth an estimated 160 billion won
($142,857). The house was purchased in 2014, but tax payments were delayed until
May 23, two days after Kang's nomination announcement. The daughters reportedly
paid 2.3 million won each.

Amid the barrage of attacks on Kang, her supporters are also speaking up. Her
policy vision, unique experience in the UN, and South Korea's monthslong
diplomatic leadership vacuum should be taken into account when judging whether
she is eligible for the job, they said.

Oh Joon, former South Korean ambassador to the UN, expressed his support for
Kang through social media, saying, "I know Foreign Minister nominee Kang inside
and outside of work and at the UN, she has managed to receive the most positive
evaluations I've ever heard."

The former ambassador emphasized that it was time for South Korea to have its
first female foreign minister.

Former Floor Leader of the People's Party Park Jie-won also praised the nominee
for her competence in a radio interview. "I personally believe she is right for
the job despite the growing irregularities surrounding her," he said. "She
carries fresh qualities as a woman nominee and a non-exam diplomat."

Meanwhile, Kang has been advocating "comfort women" issues by visiting a shelter
for World War II sexual slavery victims and vowing to solve the complicated
problems surrounding the issue.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 2075


                       Copyright 2017 Asia News Network.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                                October 20, 2003

AIFA Chief Executive To Join IMSA Board

BYLINE: By Steven Brostoff

SECTION: APPOINTMENTS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: Washington


David Woods, chief executive officer of the National Association of Insurance
and Financial Advisors, Falls Church, Va., is joining the board of the Insurance
Marketplace Standards Association, Washington.

"David Woods brings us more than 40 years of experience in the life insurance
industry and a reputation for high principles, commitment and service," says
IMSA President Brian Atchinson.

"IMSA will benefit greatly from his insight and contributions as we continue to
raise the bar for ethical standards and practices in the life, long term care
and annuities products insurance industry," Atchinson adds.

IMSA expects to approve Woods' appointment Oct. 14, at IMSA's annual meeting.

Woods says that, as a former life insurance agent, he understands how much
consumers depend on the ethical conduct, reliability and reputation of agents
and insurance companies.

"Consumers, regulators and members of the insurance industry can rely on IMSA to
lead the way in setting high standards and fulfilling its commitment to honesty,
integrity and ethics," Woods says.

Woods has been chief executive officer of NAIFA since January. He is also
president of the Life and Health Insurance Foundation for Education.

'Consumers depend on ethical conduct and reliability'

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 The National Underwriter Company


                              32 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Huge medical advances will bring big ethical dilemmas

SECTION: The Review; B3

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Early in the genome project's planning, organizers recognized that a complete
revelation of the human genetic code would precipitate not only benefits but
ethical challenges as well.

Would a person benefit from a genetic test that predicts a dismal medical fate
if the test were not accurate or if there were nothing the person could do to
prevent that fate?

Who should regulate the burgeoning business in genetic tests, since current
federal rules and laboratory standards do not encompass this class of test?

How could people ensure that their genetic profiles stay private?

Might people who are healthy but harbour genetic susceptibilities get weeded
from the workplace through pre-employment tests aimed at reducing corporate
health- insurance costs?

Congress and various federal agencies have begun to address some of these
concerns - in part under pressure from genome project officials themselves, who
have steadily earmarked 5 per cent of the project's budget for studies of its
ethical, legal and social implications.

The Kassebaum-Kennedy Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996 ensured for the first time that people in group health plans cannot be
denied coverage or have premiums increased just because a genetic test predicts
susceptibility to a disease. But the provision does not protect people with
individual insurance plans.

And in February President Clinton signed an executive order protecting federal
employees from genetic discrimination in the workplace. But the order has no
effect on employees outside the government.

Several bills awaiting action on Capitol Hill could close some of these gaps.
The Senate version (but not the House version) of so-called patients' bill of
rights legislation would extend Kassebaum-Kennedy protections to private health
plans. And bills introduced by Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle, D-S.D.,
and Rep. Louise M. Slaughter, D-N.Y., would provide protections against genetic
discrimination in the workplace and in health insurance. But the fate of these
bills remains uncertain.

Finally, an advisory committee to the secretary of Health and Human Services is
scheduled to release recommendations next month that will, for the first time,
ask the Food and Drug Administration to start regulating genetic tests to ensure
they are accurate and medically useful before being marketed.


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Pakistan Today

                             July 25, 2013 Thursday

Misappropriation of insurance funds - just an ethical issue?

LENGTH: 634  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


HR DMD 'illegally' transfers Rs 300,000 to his personal account for father's
medical treatment PEF employees deprived of emergency health insurance funds HR
DMD returns money, says he had an 'understanding' with insurance company.
Nothing appears to be more 'emergent and important' than the health of the
father of Punjab Education Department Human Resource (HR) Deputy Managing
Director (DMD) Amir Iftikhar Ahmad who allegedly misappropriated Rs 300,000 from
the department's emergency health insurance funds which were gathered by the
department's employees through a monthly installment.

A PEF official told Pakistan Today, "The DMD transferred the total amount of the
emergency allowance into his personal account for the medical treatment of his
father. During this time employees made several requisitions to acquire funds
from the pool but their request was rejected time and again by the DMD, making
one excuse after another."

The official informed that the matter surfaced at a meeting held by PEF Chairman
Raja Anwer who had been on medical leave. Different heads of departments brought
the matter to the knowledge of the chairman over the "blatant misuse" of power
and authority.

DEPRIVED:

Sources reveal that the hard earned money of the department's employees was not
made available to the employees themselves in the need of the hour.

One of the employees also dispatched an application, a copy of which is
available with Pakistan Today, to the Punjab chief secretary, secretary
education, chief minister's monitoring teams and various other high government
offices, explaining the matter in detail.

A handout issued by PEF HR Department to its employees indicated that the
contract for the ongoing year was given to Adamjee Insurance Company to cover
medical expenses of its employees, for which monthly installments are deposited.
The company has an emergency pool of a maximum of Rs 5,000 for each employee to
cover emergency medical expenses.

SAVING THE SKIN?

Sources told Pakistan Today that the PEF employees fear that senior officials in
the department were trying to save Amir's skin.

While Amir was instructed by the chairman to deposit the entire amount back into
the account, some senior employees were of the view that anybody involved in
'misplacing' funds should be dealt with strictly instead of being pardoned after
returning the amount.

"The PEF deals with donation money coming from international agencies and doles
out money to schools across Punjab. This will imply any officer misusing funds,
if caught, can get away with handing the money back with no accountability,"
said a senior officer.

According to the PEF chairman, "Even the National Accountability Bureau (NAB)
offers fraudsters to deposit back money acquired by unfair means." He further
stated that no one has the authority to withdraw those funds except the Finance
DMD, so misusing public money is out of the question.

JUST AN ETHICAL ISSUE?

DMD (Finance) Salman Anwer confirmed that Amir did not withdraw any money from
the fund but transferred health insurance money meant for all employees into his
account. "It is more of an ethical issue," he said.

To a question, he said Amir was responsible for selecting the insurance firm on
behalf of all the employees every year. "Investigations have been completed and
the amount has been deposited back into the account," he added.

DMD (HR) Amir Iftikhar confessed that he did use health insurance money for his
ailing father's treatment but not public money. "It is our understanding with
the insurance company that if we need more money, we can take it from them and
can return it later," he said.

To a question, he said no one was denied claims for insurance money. "It is
grossly incorrect if any employee claims that his requisition for emergency pool
remained pending."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 2, 2015 Monday

Student Ethics Video Contest winners named

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Chicago: American Dental Association has issued the following news release:



 The Association's Council on Ethics, Bylaws and Judicial Affairs announced in
October the four winners of the 2015 Student Ethics Video Contest.





 Since 2010, CEBJA has annually sponsored the contest to draw student attention
to the ethical dilemmas that dental students and professional dentists may
encounter and provide an exercise focusing on appropriate responses based on the
ADA Principles of Ethics and Code of Professional Conduct.



 This year, the contest included a second competitive category, created for
videos that promote patient safety through ethical treatment. A grand prize and
an honorable mention award were handed out for each category.



 The winning videos in the main category are:



     Grand prize: &ldquo;To Treat or Not to Treat,&rdquo; by Kevin Kaiser and
Liam Smyth of the University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Dentistry.

     Honorable mention: &ldquo;Learning Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability with Dr. Why,&rdquo; by Wen Hu, Se Kyung Kim, Jimin Kim,
Stephanie Lee, Carlos Rodriguez and Brandon Winslow of the University of
Maryland School of Dentistry.



 The winning videos in the patient safety category are:



     Grand prize: &ldquo;Make Ethics Matter,&rdquo; by Chris Holladay, Chris
Epperson and Erik Klintmalm of the University of Arizona School of Dentistry and
Oral Health.

     Honorable mention: &ldquo;Ode to the Code,&rdquo; by Chezdan Baker of the
Virginia Commonwealth University School of Dentistry.



 Grand prize winners received $2,500, while honorable mention winners received
$1,500. As part of the award, the Council will show the videos in the ADA
Welcome Center during ADA 2015 - America's Dental Meeting Nov. 5-10 in
Washington, D.C.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 2, 2015 Monday

Student Ethics Video Contest winners named

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Chicago: American Dental Association has issued the following news release:



 The Association's Council on Ethics, Bylaws and Judicial Affairs announced in
October the four winners of the 2015 Student Ethics Video Contest.





 Since 2010, CEBJA has annually sponsored the contest to draw student attention
to the ethical dilemmas that dental students and professional dentists may
encounter and provide an exercise focusing on appropriate responses based on the
ADA Principles of Ethics and Code of Professional Conduct.



 This year, the contest included a second competitive category, created for
videos that promote patient safety through ethical treatment. A grand prize and
an honorable mention award were handed out for each category.



 The winning videos in the main category are:



     Grand prize: &ldquo;To Treat or Not to Treat,&rdquo; by Kevin Kaiser and
Liam Smyth of the University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Dentistry.

     Honorable mention: &ldquo;Learning Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability with Dr. Why,&rdquo; by Wen Hu, Se Kyung Kim, Jimin Kim,
Stephanie Lee, Carlos Rodriguez and Brandon Winslow of the University of
Maryland School of Dentistry.



 The winning videos in the patient safety category are:



     Grand prize: &ldquo;Make Ethics Matter,&rdquo; by Chris Holladay, Chris
Epperson and Erik Klintmalm of the University of Arizona School of Dentistry and
Oral Health.

     Honorable mention: &ldquo;Ode to the Code,&rdquo; by Chezdan Baker of the
Virginia Commonwealth University School of Dentistry.



 Grand prize winners received $2,500, while honorable mention winners received
$1,500. As part of the award, the Council will show the videos in the ADA
Welcome Center during ADA 2015 - America's Dental Meeting Nov. 5-10 in
Washington, D.C.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           October 15, 1986 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

WHO SAYS INVESTORS DON'T CARE WHERE THEIR MONEY IS INVESTED?;
HOTLINE

BYLINE: Anne Lampe

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 689 words


THE Friends Provident Ethical Managed Fund, launched a month ago, has attracted
more than $800,000 without any formal advertising.

While this is dwarfed by the $1 million or $2 million a month that some of the
leveraged currency dealers were attracting at the height of their operations a
few months ago, it is more than any one of them would be attracting now.

Of course, there is no similarity between the ethical fund and the operations of
some of the leveraged currency operators. The comparison simply demonstrates
that some investment products will attract public money even without the benefit
of advertising.

The ethical fund selects companies not involved in arms, alcohol, tobacco,
gambling, and excludes those which trade with South Africa or Namibia, and those
which trade in uranium.

The fund is about to begin distributing brochures, but Herman Heywood, Friends'
Provident's financial services manager, says he is delighted with the result and
believes the Friends' trusts will be the forerunner of several others.

Cancer coverage

A NEW health insurance policy specifically designed to cover the many special
costs associated with cancer patients has been launched by the US-based American
Family Assurance.

The latest statistics on the incidence of cancer show that one in four can
expect to suffer from the disease some time in their lives, and three out of
four families will be touched by it in some way.

And since the treatment of the disease - radiotherapy or chemotherapy plus the
hospitalisation that usually results - tends to be centralised in major capital
cities, out-of-town patients often face big travel and accommodation expenses.

Such expenses could include hotel accommodation or a short term rental while
out-patient treatment is given, or for accompanying relatives while the patient
is hospitalised, as well as cab and other fares to and from hospital for patient
or visitor.

Certainly the medical and hospital costs are mostly covered by a combination of
Medicare and private health fund insurance (where the patient chooses his or her
own doctor). But these do not cover incidental travelling and accommodation
costs.

The policies offered by American Family Assurance, a wholly owned subsidiary of
the American Family Life group of Columbus, Georgia, provide for lump sum
payments on initial diagnosis of internal cancer, as well as hospitalisation and
specified convalescence benefits.

The insurance scheme, which excludes the common superficial skin
cancers(although it pays out for melanomas), offers three plans - a basic plan,
super plan and deluxe plan.

The basic plan provides for an initial lump sum benefit of $800 on diagnosis,
plus a progressive benefit of $20 per month after the first 60 days, with a
maximum payment of $1,200. In addition, where the patient is hospitalised there
is an $80 per day benefit for accommodation of relatives and a $40 per day
convalescence benefit.

The cost of the plan varies according to age and whether it is a single or a
family plan.

The basic plan for 18 to 39 year olds carries an annual premium of $62.50 per
individual (or $118.75 per family) and rises to $125 per year between the ages
of 40 to 54 ($250 per family) and to $218.75 for those 55-64 years of age($375
per family). Insurance is not available for those over 64, or those who have had
cancer diagnosed before applying for the cover.

The super plan provides for double the basic plan benefits and the deluxe plan
triples the basic plan benefits. The costs double and triple accordingly

The company says these benefits are payable in addition to other cash payments
and monies received from other sources, such as other income replacement or
sickness insurance or workers' compensation.

The general manager of the American Family Assurance, David Jones, says: "The
policies are intended to minimise the financial impact cancer has on the family
and to allow victims to concentrate on getting well."

He adds that the company is not using fear tactics but sees the plan as a
positive approach to relieving a major debilitating impact of the disease -the
financial effects on cancer sufferers and their families.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1986 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 29, 2002 Friday

Pact 'an essential step' in restoring confidence

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS SPECIAL REPORT; THE ROMANOW REPORT: Text; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 463 words


The following is a partial text of A Proposed Health Covenant for Canadians,
taken from the report of the Commission on the Future of Health Care in Canada:

   Canada was founded on the basis of co-operation, perseverance and mutual
respect. Canadians continue to be recognized throughout the world for these
qualities. Building from this solid foundation, as Canadians, we agree to apply
and be bound by the following in shaping our health care system:

Mutual Responsibility:

The success of our health care system requires a balance between our personal
responsibility for our own health and our mutual responsibility for our health
care system.

All Canadians share the responsibility for maintaining this system through their
actions and tax dollars, and all should contribute to it within their means.

A Public Resource:

Our health care system is a public resource and a precious national asset.

Patient-centred Care:

The direction of our health care system must be shaped around health needs of
individual patients, their families and communities.

Equity:

All Canadians are equally entitled to access our health system based on health
needs, not ability to pay.

A Universal, Accessible, and Portable System:

Public health insurance must be accessible to all Canadians on uniform terms and
conditions, regardless of where they live in the country. . . .

A Respectful, Ethical System:

Our health care system must be based on the highest ethical standards, and must
recognize the worth and dignity of the whole person including biological,
emotional, physical, psychological, social and spiritual needs.

Transparency and Accountability:

The decisions governments and providers make in operating our health care system
should be clear and transparent. Canadians are entitled to regular reports on
the status, quality and performance of our health care system.

Public Input:

Public participation is important to ensuring a viable, responsive and effective
health care system.

Quality, Efficiency and Effectiveness:

The resources needed to support our health care system are limited, and the
system must be run as efficiently as possible. Care should be integrated,
multidisciplinary, timely and convenient, and services should be designed around
the health of the population, with emphasis on the physical, social, economic
and environmental determinants of health. . . .

Canadians and their elected representatives may choose to endorse or amend this
proposed Covenant.

However, the final statement is crafted, a Covenant is an essential step in
restoring Canadians' confidence, reaffirming our collective commitment to
medicare, and reflecting Canadians' values in a clear and compelling statement
of our vision and expectations for Canada's health care system.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2002 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Topeka Capital-Journal (Kansas)

                              June 21, 2009 Sunday

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 948 words


Reform needed now

The time is now for health care reform. The country's current system is due for
a major collapse. Our system of health care is based entirely on profit - from
the hospitals, to the doctors (some not all), to the health insurance companies
and pharmaceutical companies.

Every one of them has a profit incentive for not changing our current system.
But if everyone is covered, whether through a single payer system or affordable
public insurance option, we become a healthier country.

The taxes to pay for an affordable public health insurance plan could be
pro-rated to people's income and taken from their pay checks. For those who have
no job, we all will have to pay some form of a small tax.

This country is one of the most advanced in the world, but we rank way down on
the list when it comes to a healthy population. You can chalk that one up to a
lack of health insurance or access to health care. What is wrong with our
country? We have great medical technology, but what good is it if a dwindling
number of people have access?

Medicare is one of best run federal programs in the country, but it is being
robbed blind by private insurers who receive subsidies to cover retired people
under the Medicare Advantage program.

Why is it sinful to even talk about raising taxes to support Medicare when
private insurance companies are raising premiums 30 percent or more a year? Is
it going to take a collapse of the system before anything is done?

SARAH BENT, Kansas City, Mo.

People can change

Gwyn Mellinger's column about former Topeka Mayor Doug Wright's rehabilitation,
and his ensuing attempts to gain a teaching license, is troubling and filled
with lack of moral and ethical insight.

Her intimation that humans, at a given age, become incapable of learning, change
and growth is an insult to anyone over 50 and a frightening prospect for
humanity. I have lived long enough, a bit longer than Mellinger I suspect, to
see numerous older adults mend their ways and become positive and significant
contributors to society.

That Mellinger cannot envision such speaks more to a personal inability at self
examination and improvement than it does to Wright's vigorous efforts to better
his life and, in turn, the lives of others.

How sad that such an apparently capable person seems incapable of self
assessment but is so inclined to judge others. I recall the Bible saying
something about that, to say nothing of the ethical and moral failures implicit
in such behavior.

DICK WALKER, Baldwin City

Health factors

Our report, "Kansas County Health Rankings 2009," was intended to stimulate
thoughtful conversations about what it takes to improve health. The central
point was to demonstrate that health and well-being require many things in
addition to high quality health care.

Health care is important. But other factors - education, personal behaviors, the
environment and socioeconomic status among them - are much more powerful
determinants of the health of a community than medical services provided to
individuals.

Commissioner Vic Miller, in a recent article, asked the important question of
what high school graduation rates have to do with health. The answer is
critical: Education is one of the most important factors that determine how
healthy we are as a community. Research clearly shows that the more schooling
people have, the better their overall health is likely to be - due to their
greater earning potential and, thus, their ability to purchase better housing in
safer neighborhoods, healthier food, additional education, better medical care
and insurance.

It wasn't just the education and social factors that led to the relatively low
ranking in our report for Shawnee County. It was also the early deaths and low
birth weight babies. These poor health outcomes are inextricably linked to the
many factors in our own lives and communities that determine our health.

The recent editorial correctly concluded that more and even better health care
will not by itself make Topeka a healthier community. Rather, a strategic
investment to improve health should also include addressing factors that prevent
us from being as healthy as we strive to be.

Our goal was to start important, but potentially difficult, conversations about
health in communities across Kansas. Here in Topeka, it appears that the
conversation is under way.

ROBERT ST. PETER, president and CEO, Kansas Health Institute, Topeka

Working for center

Kansas is poised to take the lead on cutting-edge cancer research, which will be
a boon to the state's economy and the future of Kansas health care.

The University of Kansas Cancer Center, which I recently toured, is working to
achieve the National Cancer Institute's designation as a National Cancer Center.

While the center is already an important part of the Kansas City Life Sciences
initiative, a National Cancer Center designation would improve cancer care and
treatments available to Kansans from Goodland to Pittsburg. Instead of traveling
out of state, Kansans could stay right here to get cutting-edge treatments.

Likewise, it would be a catalyst in working to bring new research and massive
economic development opportunities to this area, particularly when combined with
the university's existing pharmaceutical research and development. With the help
of the Kansas Bioscience Authority, the Cancer Center will move drugs to Kansas
companies for production and sale, resulting in job creation and a huge economic
impact for the area.

I plan to lead efforts in Washington to promote the University of Kansas Cancer
Center's bid to achieve the National Cancer Institute designation as it works to
make the final application.

SEN. PAT ROBERTS, Dodge City

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The Topeka Capital-Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Budgeting for fairness

BYLINE: Geoffrey Barker - Geoffrey Barker is a visiting fellow at the Strategic
and Defence Studies Centre at the Australian National University.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 790 words


Budgets need an ethical as well as economic and political basis, writes Geoffrey
Barker.

The economics and politics of the budget have now been canvassed ad nauseam.
Debt, deficit and the prospect of a double dissolution election have been the
overwhelming focus of commentary on Labor's latest attempt to address the global
financial crisis.

But what about the ethics of the budget? Does it offer a morally tenable answer
to the question of how we ought, as a society, to live through the crisis? How
right, how fair, is the budget for the circumstances in which Australians find
themselves? Economic and political perspectives might help to clarify these
questions, but they will not alone provide answers

We are undoubtedly living through grim times. Public and private prosperity is
declining; many people are losing businesses and jobs and are suffering genuine
hardship. A significant and increasing minority of citizens are struggling to
afford adequate health care, housing and education.

An ethical budget should seek to ameliorate this suffering. It should seek
impartially to make benefits granted and sacrifices demanded commensurate with
the needs and abilities of citizens. It should seek impartially to maximise
human happiness while respecting the dignity of individuals.

Adapting the principle of the philosopher John Rawls, an ethical budget should
not improve the position of the better-off unless in so doing it helps to
improve the position of those enduring the greatest hardships.

A budget is, of course, an imperfect tool for achieving such results. The
motives of politicians will always be mixed and usually self-serving. They
cannot ignore the economic and political imperatives; but neither can they
ignore the moral dimension of public policy.

Wayne Swan's budget is plainly flawed in moral terms. It does little to
significantly redistribute financial benefits towards the least favoured
Australians. There is no attempt to progressively increase the taxes paid by the
wealthiest citizens and companies to claw back lost revenue. Moreover, the
budget (and earlier economic stimulus packages) are policy gambles based on
highly optimistic assumptions about the future.

Nevertheless, Swan has made some useful gestures towards easing some hardships
and creating a fairer society.

Helping to support even limited employment through infrastructure projects
obviously eases some hardship and acknowledges the responsibility of the present
generation for the future. Increased funding for aged pensioners and tertiary
students, and funding for paid parental leave, reflect moral sensitivity and
respect for some particularly vulnerable and valuable people. Decisions to
increase the minimum pension age from 65 to 67, and to reduce the cap on
concessional superannuation contributions, are also on balance fair, given
Australia's ageing population.

In ethical terms it is hard to understand the outrage of Opposition Leader
Malcolm Turnbull over the decision to boost revenue by $1.9 billion by imposing
a tiered means test on the 30 per cent private health insurance rebate. This
will only affect reasonably well-off individuals earning at least $75,000 a
year, and it can be seen as a minor reversal of middle-class welfare, which is
no bad thing in a society aspiring to a measure of fairness.

Turnbull's offer to support instead a rise in tobacco excise to raise $1.9
billion presents its own moral dilemmas. It would presumably help to discourage
health-destroying tobacco use, but it would affect all smokers and would be
hardest on low-income smokers. Means-testing the health insurance rebate is at
least harder on those with higher incomes.

For all its limitations, Swan's budget reflects the overall view that all
Australians are in this crisis together as a society and that there is a moral
obligation to act together to work our way back to prosperity and to help those
in greatest need in the meantime.

Of course it may all go horribly wrong. But the budget's limited moral virtue is
not undermined because the future is uncertain and because the government has
assumed debt that may condemn future generations to diminished prospects. It may
equally return Australia to prosperity with at least limited human suffering in
the meantime.

Turnbull's alternative is to stress individual self-reliance and the competitive
spirit of the small businessman. For him Australians are on their own as
individuals in this crisis. They must do their best and expect at best only
marginal support from Liberals who are averse to accumulating significant debt
for social purposes.

Budget-making is a moral science as well as an economic and political science.
Imperfectly, Swan recognises this truth. Turnbull seems largely blind to it.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2009 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 1, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR Edition

A BAD YEAR FOR MR. CLINTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 512 words


For President Bill Clinton, 1994 started off well enough, with a rallying call
for national health insurance, but it certainly did not end that way. The Nov. 8
elections were seen by most analysts as a repudiation of the president, and he
spent the remaining weeks of the year trying to pick up the pieces.

In the second year of his presidency, Mr. Clinton could point to several
worthwhile achievements, but they were overshadowed by his inability to get
Congress to do anything about the nation's health-insurance problem. As long as
it is not addressed, the number of Americans lacking health insurance will
continue to grow and the cost of health care will continue to rise, imposing
crushing financial burdens even on those with insurance and greatly exacerbating
the budget deficits. With Congress now in the control of the Republicans, there
is no likelihood of meaningful reform in 1995.

Attrition took its toll on the Clinton administration last year. Les Aspin was
the first Cabinet member to depart in 1994, his managerial style seemingly
unsuited to the Pentagon. Before the year was out, the well-regarded treasury
secretary, Lloyd Bentsen, would go, as would the controversial surgeon general,
Joycelyn Elders. Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy, under an ethical cloud,
announced that he would leave.

And the ethical cloud continued to hover over Mr. Clinton. Paula Jones, a former
Arkansas government employee, filed a lawsuit charging that Mr. Clinton made
unwanted sexual advances when he was governor. Then, congressional Republicans
were able to force Democrats to conduct hearings, albeit brief ones, on one
phase of the Whitewater affair.

Against all this, the passage of two major trade deals, NAFTA and GATT,
favorable action on crime legislation and the Brady bill and the bloodless
occupation of Haiti by U.S. forces could not rescue the president from the low
esteem in which the public held him for most of the year. Bosnia continued
throughout the year to confound the Clinton administration, which found itself
alternately issuing threats and withdrawing them.

All presidents are subjected to hateful attacks by their critics, but the
vitriol endured by Mr. Clinton was extraordinary - and alarming. Cheered on by
right-wing radio commentators, radicals of the right sought not only to
discredit his policies but to destroy him personally. This year, the hate and
meanness are almost certain to intensify as the Whitewater hearings resume in
full and Mr. Clinton struggles with congressional Republicans over welfare
reform and the so-called social issues - gays in the military, organized prayer
in the schools, tuition vouchers for private schools, abortion and funding for
the arts.

For Mr. Clinton the question is whether he or his political opponents will set
the agenda in 1995. To avoid the latter, he will have to assert himself
unequivocally and provide strong leadership. If he tries too hard to be
accommodating, he will be seen as wishy-washy, which, as 1994 proved, is a
prescription for political failure.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              41 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday

Washington: The Complexities of Providing Health Insurance

LENGTH: 2888  words

DATELINE: Washington


The Heritage Foundation has issued the following news release:

Discussions of the ethics of health care financing typically focus on issues of
equity and social justice. Yet such discussions are more often about means than
ends. Contrary to the impression given by occasionally heated political
rhetoric, there, in fact, exists a broad consensus across the political spectrum
that modern societies have an obligation to ensure that all of their members
have access to needed medical care.

Of course, there are still disagreements over what should be considered
necessary or appropriate care, or where to draw the line between personal and
collective financial responsibilities, but those are mainly disputes at the
margins.

Somewhat more consequential are the debates over how the system should be
structured. They involve not only disagreements over the proper roles of the
government and the private sector, but also practical considerations with
respect to the efficacy of different approaches for organizing the financing and
delivery of medical care.

The same can also be found in other social policy areas, such as education. For
instance, the existence of broad societal support for the proposition that all
children should be educated to a minimum level, does not, in and of itself,
resolve questions over how best to achieve that end, the appropriate level of
resources to devote to the effort, how the system should be structured, or the
proper roles of the various participants.

Rather, in health care financing, the truly contentious issues today are those
that center on the morality of specific therapies or actions. Indeed, recent
scientific advances are spawning new ethical issues in medicine--and by
extension, in health care financing as well. To the issues that have long been
present, such as abortion, euthanasia, and assisted suicide, must now be added
others, such as artificial contraception, assisted reproduction, sex-change
treatments, genetic therapies, therapeutic cloning, and potential therapies
derived from embryonic stem cells.

While these issues typically attract attention in the context of debates over
the use of public funds, such as the issue of paying for abortion in public
programs, they also exist, though less visibly, in private health care
financing. That is particularly the case in the United States, where half of all
medical care is still privately financed, mainly through employer-provided
health insurance.

Private, employer-sponsored health insurance has been the dominant form of
medical coverage in the United States for over half a century. Even though the
share of the population covered by employer health plans has declined from its
peak in the 1970s, 58.4 percent of the non-elderly U.S. population is still
covered by employment-based health insurance.[1] This arrangement is the product
of social policies since the 1940s that have favored it, mainly by treating
employer-provided health benefits as tax-free income to workers. In the
intervening years, government also imposed regulations on these arrangements,
but until now those regulations were almost exclusively limited to addressing
the contractual and financial aspects of private coverage.

However, this coverage arrangement presents its own set of ethical
considerations, and while the latest federal health care legislation has pushed
those issues to the forefront, they have long been present in the system in
latent form.

Employer-sponsored health insurance is a form of compensation paid by an
employer to its workers. As such, the ethics of how those funds are spent is of
consequence to both the employer and the workers. Moral obligations attach not
only to the employer's decisions with respect to selecting or designing the
plan, but also to the employee's participation in the plan, since such plans are
collective arrangements funded with monies that would otherwise be part of the
worker's cash wages.

Yet, most workers probably do not know if their employer's health plan uses
their money to pay for items or services that they consider immoral. They might
be surprised to learn, for example, that a 2003 health care coverage survey
found that 46 percent of workers with employer-sponsored health insurance were
covered by plans that paid for abortion services.[2] Indeed, there have been
instances in which even conscientious employers, including some Catholic
institutions, discovered that they had been, unintentionally, providing their
workers with health plans that include coverage for morally objectionable items
or procedures.

These situations occur because changing social norms and developments in medical
science have steadily altered what is considered "standard" or "typical" in
employer health plan coverage. Unless an employer is diligent in excluding
morally objectionable services from its health plan coverage, one or more of
those services are increasingly likely to be in the plan by default.

To this equation has now been added another dimension by the most recent federal
health care legislation, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA)
of 2010.[3] While that legislation does expand existing public programs
somewhat, its more consequential feature is that it takes the novel approach of
attempting to achieve social policy objectives by compelling individuals to
engage in government-specified transactions with other private parties. In
effect, rather than increasing taxation to the level necessary to achieve its
objectives through public programs, Congress instead decided to commandeer
existing private resources to achieve those objectives through closely regulated
private arrangements.

That this approach is novel in terms of secular law can be seen from the
challenges to the constitutionality of the law's requirement that individuals
purchase health insurance. However, it is also novel with respect to the ethics
of health care financing, in that it shifts the locus of authority over private
medical treatment and private financing decisions, including those that entail
ethical or moral considerations, from employers and individuals to government.

The legislation expands federal government regulation of private health care
coverage in a number of significant ways, three of which embody this significant
shift in authority:

First, it grants the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) sweeping
new powers to impose a wide range of benefit requirements on policies sold by
health insurers and, in some cases, on employer-sponsored health plans as well.

Second, for the first time, it requires employers with 50 or more workers to
provide their employees with health insurance coverage that the federal
government deems to be adequate and affordable, or pay annual fines for failing
to comply.

Third, and also for the first time, it requires individuals to obtain the
minimum health insurance coverage specified by the government, or pay annual
fines for failing to comply.

Underlying these measures is a corresponding shift in the rationale for
government regulation that has profound implications for the ethics of private
health care financing.

In October 2010, a major medical journal published a paper by a leading
supporter of the legislation arguing for the constitutionality of its
requirement on individuals to obtain health insurance. Setting aside the merits
of the legal reasoning, it is the author's exposition of the law's underlying
philosophical rationale that is most clarifying for our purposes. The principal
justification offered for the requirement on individuals to obtain health
insurance is that it is part of "a broader regulatory scheme" embodied in the
new law:

First, and perhaps most fundamentally, in a remarkable shift whose precedent
lies in the watershed Civil Rights Act of 1964, the [PPACA] transforms health
insurance into a public accommodation.... This basic reconceptualization of
health insurance as a good whose availability is a matter of national public
interest essentially frames health insurance the way the Civil Rights Act framed
other business interests.[4]

It is under this "public accommodation" rationale that the government now
asserts the power to: (1) require employers to fund and manage health plans for
their workers; (2) compel individuals to purchase health coverage; and (3)
determine the scope and benefits of the coverage that must be provided and
purchased. Because some of those decisions will involve ethical or moral
considerations, the government is also implicitly asserting the supremacy of its
own moral judgments over those of the employers and workers whose resources pay
for the medical care in question.

The first conflict to arise out of the government's exercise of these new powers
centers on the requirement that employers and individuals pay for and facilitate
contraception, sterilization, and abortion-inducing drugs. However, it is not
hard to envision more such conflicts arising in the future, should this new
arrogation of power by the government be permitted to stand. That is because the
legislation's two separate benefit-setting provisions are drafted as broad
grants of discretionary authority to the executive branch.

First, Congress empowered HHS to define and "periodically update," a package of
"essential health benefits" within at least 10 broad categories.[5] Starting in
2014, insurers will be required to include the essential health benefits in all
individual and small-group policies.[6]

Second, the law requires both insurers and employers, including those that
"self-insure," to cover specified "preventive services" with no enrollee
cost-sharing.[7] The requirement that employers and insurers provide coverage
for contraception (including abortion-inducing drugs) and sterilization, is a
subset of this second set of benefit mandates.

With these provisions now in federal law, there will likely be interest group
pressure to expand the list of mandated benefits, and some of those proposed
additions are likely to also be morally objectionable.[8] Indeed, that has been
the experience with benefit mandates imposed by state governments on insurers,
though employers can avoid state government mandates by not purchasing coverage
from an insurance company and instead designing and funding their own
"self-insured" plans. However, that solution will not work for the subset of new
federal benefit mandates that are imposed not only on insurers but also directly
on employers.

Thus, both employers and individuals attempting to act in accordance with
Catholic moral teaching are placed in an unsatisfactory position.

One option for a Catholic or other conscientious employer, would be to simply
discontinue the employee health plan and convert plan contributions back into
cash wages paid to the workers. However, under the new law, if the employer has
50 or more workers, it would then be fined $2,000 each year, per worker, for not
providing the required coverage. Furthermore, its workers would also be fined if
they did not, then, obtain the required coverage on their own. Yet, all of the
alternative plans available to them in either the individual insurance market,
or through the employer of another worker in the family, would be required to
include the morally objectionable items or services. Thus, this option is not a
satisfactory solution for either the employer or the employees.

Another option would be for employers who are conscientious objectors to
redesign their employee health benefit plans in ways that:

exclude coverage of morally objectionable items and services, and thus do not
violate their consciences;
 avoid exposing their organizations to the ruinous fines imposed on
non-compliant plans, yet; and
 still enable them to offer their workers employer-sponsored health benefits on
a pre-tax basis.

I have been working with others who also have expertise in this area to develop
a template for such benefit plan redesigns that Catholic and other objecting
employers could use. However, under this approach, the employer would still be
fined the same as if he provided no coverage, and his employees would also be
fined if they did not otherwise obtain the required coverage. Thus, while
creatively redesigning employer plans could significantly reduce the risks and
costs associated with non-compliance--relieving some of the pressure on
employers as they await the eventual disposition of their legal challenges--this
option also does not resolve the underlying conflict.

Of course, pursuing court challenges to the infringement on rights of conscience
posed by morally objectionable government benefit mandates is important, but it,
too, will not produce a definitive resolution. Even if the plaintiffs
challenging the imposition of the contraceptive coverage mandate eventually
prevail in court, the government would still retain the power to later impose
one or more other morally objectionable coverage requirements. Each future
infringement would have to be litigated all over again.[9]

A more definitive solution would be to add a "conscience exemption" to the
law.[10] Yet, to be truly satisfactory, a conscience exemption would need to
meet at least the following four tests:

It would need to be explicit and unambiguous.
 It would need to broadly protect conscience rights with respect to decisions
not only involving existing items, services, and treatments, but future ones as
well.
 It would need to be available, on equal terms and as a matter of right, to any
individual or entity, and could not be otherwise conditional or dependent on
government deciding the validity of conscience claims.
 It would need to be functionally meaningful by also permitting health insurers
to offer plans that exclude from coverage specific items or services if their
customers have moral objections to funding or facilitating those items or
services.

Yet, the very need for such an amendment indicates that the basic structure of
the underlying law is seriously flawed. A law crafted such that it can be
applied justly only if significant exceptions are permitted, is inherently
defective in either its basic premise or its basic design, or both. In such
circumstances, it is best for lawmakers to simply repeal the defective law.
Assuming that the original objectives are legitimate, lawmakers may then adopt
other, less problematic, means to achieving the same ends.

It is possible to ensure that all members of society have access to needed
medical care, accompanied by just and equitable financing arrangements, without
resorting to laws that infringe on freedom of religion and conscience.

While designing such an alternative approach involves practical considerations
that are outside the scope of the Church's moral and teaching authority, it is
possible, and indeed helpful, for the Church to offer additional guidance
derived from other principles beyond those of equity and social justice.

To return to the earlier analogy, if there are multiple ways to structure a
system of universal primary education, then, in order to assess the relative
merits of those competing approaches, one must look for guidance to some other
principle beyond that of social justice. In the case of education, that
principle should be the Church's teaching that parents are the ones who have the
primary responsibility and authority in educating their children. Judged in
light of that principle, an educational system that operates with more deference
to the rights and authority of parents would be preferable to one that gives
less deference.

In the same fashion, the Church's teaching on the inherent dignity and worth of
every human life should be the guiding principle for assessing the relative
merits of differing approaches to constructing a comprehensive and equitable
system for financing and delivering medical care.

The system will function best and most effectively if it is structured such that
patients and consumers--not governments or employers--are empowered to be the
ultimate decision-makers. It is possible to construct a comprehensive, just, and
equitable health care system without subordinating the needs and authority of
patients to those of government, employers, insurers, or medical providers. My
colleagues and I have spent years working on the details of how that can, in
fact, be accomplished.[11]

We also argued several years ago that greater patient and consumer control over
health care financing was also the best way to ultimately, and more
satisfactorily, address the growing number of issues in biomedical ethics.[12]

While the Church rightly does not pronounce on prudential matters that do not
have direct moral implications, it does point to the relevant, basic principles
that should guide our assessments of the total effects of social structures and
public policies.

To adapt a formulation sometimes used in other contexts, I submit that, just as
the totality of Catholic teaching should lead us in education policy to a
preferential option for solutions built around the primacy of parents, so, too,
it should lead us in health care policy to a preferential option for solutions
built around the primacy of patients. That primacy is not just a primacy of
their needs, or even a primacy of their authority. It is also a primacy of their
consciences.

For more information please visit: http://www.heritage.org

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                       June 21, 2004 Monday Final Edition

An ethical approach to medicare

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Jacques J. M. Shore

SECTION: News; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 635 words

The current debate concerning Canada's health-care system is hobbled by a unique
Canadian orthodoxy, such that anyone who argues that medicare is not measuring
up is seen as un-Canadian. I believe a universal health care system is possible
and worthy of keeping, but it is critical that we ask ourselves some tough
questions and then address the issues maturely to meet the ethical requirements
of health care.

In 2002, the Romanow Report framed the debate about Canada's health-care system
as a debate about the Canadian values of equity, fairness, and solidarity,
values that Mr. Romanow suggested could only be sustained through the continued
maintenance of the health-care status quo. With the "Canadian values" label,
this view is seen as good, and everything else bad, resulting in a severely
circumscribed debate on health care reform.

The question we must answer honestly is: Can we really spend ever-increasing
sums of money on the health-care system and reduce medical waiting times, while
not forsaking other public policy areas of priority and not raising taxes?

Failing as a nation to address this issue and move beyond the confines of the
health-care orthodoxy may be the source of this deception; a deception which
ultimately is unethical if governments wish to maintain the monopoly of
providing our health-care services.

Health-care spending priorities are decisions that impact our lives. In turn,
issues concerning life are fundamentally a question of social justice, which
makes approaching the subject from an ethical perspective both natural and
necessary. If it serves only one purpose, an ethical approach to the delivery of
health care, and its reform, will serve to put health care in its proper
context. The current system is simply avoiding decay. (In some provinces, some
would argue that the decay has begun.)

If the government is to prohibit privately funded purchases of core health
services, does it not therefore have an ethical obligation to deliver health
services within appropriate scientific norms and in a timely manner? When
citizens are suffering and dying on waiting lists because of a lack of essential
funding in the public system, the government is not meeting its ethical
obligation. Health care delayed is health care denied.

This ethical debate is currently playing out at the Supreme Court of Canada in
the case of a 72-year-old Montreal man who waited almost a year for a hip
replacement and is arguing that prohibiting the purchase of private health
services and insurance when lengthy waiting lists plague the public system,
violates his constitutional rights under the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
While the legal issues raised are critical for consideration by our highest
court, ethics suffice to steer our political leaders to engage in the right
dialogue.

Canadians may have no choice but to face a future of two-tier health care if the
country cannot find ways to improve the system. We may delude ourselves by
delaying the inevitable discourse. However, addressing these issues sooner
rather than later is essential in constructing a stable health-care environment
and to avoid bankrupting the system.

Pointing out the shortfalls of medicare shouldn't be un-Canadian. With a focus
on ethics, Canadians will achieve the open and honest debate they deserve about
the current state of health care, which will spell out the nation's
health-related priorities, our willingness to fund those priorities given
budgetary constraints, and what we collectively desire for the future of
health-care services in Canada.

The alternative would be shameful and a national failure.

Jacques J.M. Shore is a lawyer and counsel to the Human Research Ethics Board at
the University of Ottawa Heart Institute. He is married to a family physician.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Opinion

               Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 21, 1991 Saturday

OHIP: Don't leave home with it

BYLINE: TERENCE CORCORAN; GAM

LENGTH: 843 words


TERENCE CORCORAN
 ONTARIO'S universal and comprehensive health care system is about to cut
off most of the universe. As of Oct. 1, Ontario residents travelling or
living outside Canada will no longer be entitled to the full benefits of
the Ontario Health Insurance Plan. Under the new rules, an Ontario
resident forced to spend time and $28,000 in a U.S. hospital as a result
of a car accident would get OHIP coverage of only $5,000, the new limit
set by the Ontario government.

Since U.S. hospital care can run to $3,000 a day, the risks are high.

The unceremonious elimination of out-of-country coverage is the latest
in an increasing number of initiatives Canadian provinces are taking as
they stare down the throat of the uncontrollable, centrally planned health
care system. What should Ontario residents do to protect themselves now
when they're outside Canada? An official in the ministry of Health
Minister Frances Lankin offered some blunt advice in a Toronto newspaper:
"We advise everyone to carry extra insurance."

The province paid $225-million to U.S. doctors and health services last
year. Now most of that cost will have to be picked up by individuals, who
must either buy private insurance plans costing hundreds or even thousands
of dollars or pay the full cost of out-of-country health care themselves,
a prospect that could bankrupt some people.

The Ontario move raises some interesting constitutional, ethical,
medical, procedural and economic issues.

Constitutional issue: Choose one of the following: As far as medicare
is concerned, the province of Ontario is (a) unwaveringly committed to
federal principles of Canadian medicare, (b) willing to bend the
principles a little here and there, (c) it's hard to tell.

Rhetoric-wise, the province seems totally committed to the federal
health system. In its discussion paper released yesterday on the need for
a Canadian social charter, Ontario makes much of the government's desire
to enshrine universal medicare as a Canadian constitutional principle. The
paper lists the five basic principles of medicare found in the Canada
Health Act, including comprehensiveness (coverage of all medically
required services) and universality (provided to all residents).

These principles should be entrenched in the constitution, the paper
suggests, to ensure that all governments across Canada adhere to basic
national principles. But is the new OHIP out-of-country policy consistent
with the requirement that health insurance cover "all residents" for "all
medically required services?" Legally, it's hard to tell, but practically
there's little doubt that as of Oct. 1 all Ontario residents are not
covered for all services.

Ethical issue: It is one thing to limit the ability of drug addicts to
defraud the system by spending $500,000 at resort-like U.S. rehab clinics.
It is ethically another thing to strip Ontario residents of emergency
medical care just because they happen to be out of the country when the
emergency strikes. Or to suddenly tell hundreds of thousands of elderly
and retired vacationers that they must now spend large amounts on new
private health insurance.

Medical issues: Where is the Ontario Medical Association on this issue?
Supposedly dedicated to the welfare of its patients, and to the integrity
of the system, the OMA has been silent. Of course, this is no loss to
Ontario doctors. Indeed, it could mean more business for the doctors as
many Ontario residents are prevented from obtaining specialized medical
services in the United States or elsewhere. As well, uninsured Canadians
temporarily out of the country could be forced to return to Ontario for
medical care - assuming it's available.

Procedural issue: In Ontario there are waiting lists for many medical
procedures, including some that could be termed urgent, if not
emergencies. Imagine, if you will, being unwell in Florida and trying to
line up an Ontario hospital bed via fax and long-distance telephone calls.

Economic issue: One of the province's justifications for the move is
that it doesn't want to continue to pay money into the allegedly
overpriced ($3,000 a day) and profit-driven private U.S. medical system.
This gives the impression OHIP has an idea of how much it costs to keep
someone in hospital in Ontario. In any case, the Ontario ministry's daily
rate for U.S. citizens using Ontario hospitals is equivalent to U.S.
rates. At the Toronto Hospital, for example, non-residents of Canada are
required to pay up to $3,200 a day for intensive care. Hospital care may
even be cheaper in the United States - OHIP has no way of knowing.

Political issues: When Ontario and federal politicians - Premier Bob
Rae, for example, or federal Trade Minister Michael Wilson - travel
outside of Canada, will they purchase extra insurance?

One consolation is that the Ontario government decided not to
nationalize auto insurance. Had they done so, they might have applied the
same out-of-country restrictions. As of Oct. 1, therefore, Ontarians can
take comfort. If they are in an accident south of the border, their bodies
might not be covered but their cars are still protected.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1991 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                December 7, 2004

A-Z OF STRESS BUSTERS; PETA BEE GIVES TOP TIPS TO OVERCOME IT

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 892 words


ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE This teaches people to become more aware of their bodies,
which in turn helps them combat the physical symptoms of stress. Contact the
Society of Teachers of the Alexander Technique (www. stat. org. uk) for details
of your nearest teacher.

BANANAS These are rich in carbohydrates, which boost production of the soothing
hormone serotonin, and also rich in important stress-fighting nutrients such as
magnesium.

CELERY Munching on a stick of celery could relieve anxiety.

Scientists have discovered that phytonutrients called phthalides found in celery
have a tranquilising and anticonvulsant effect on the nervous system.

DANCING Take a tip from Strictly Come Dancing - as well as the physical
benefits, there are huge psychological boosts. Studies have shown dancing can
improve mood and enhance the production of hormones that produce a feeling of
euphoria.

ESSENTIAL OILS Dabbing essential oils on your temples or pulse points or adding
them to a bath can relieve stress. A paper published in the Journal of Clinical
Psychiatry showed how lemon balm oil had a significant calming effect, while
lavender oil can induce sleep.

Essential oils should always be diluted with a carrier oil and never applied
directly to the skin.

FELDENKRAIS METHOD In Germany, this movement therapy is so highly regarded, it
can be claimed on health insurance. It uses gentle bodyawareness exercises and
manipulation to re-align the body.

Contact www. feldenkrais. co. uk for a teacher.

HERBAL TEAS Naturopaths have long prescribed herbal teas for specific health
complaints including stress. Camomile helps to calm nerves and reduce anxiety.

Ginseng tea is also recommended as a natural aid to resisting stress and
combating fatigue.

IRON Lack of iron is the most common nutrient deficiency in the UK, and can make
stress w orse. Boost your intake with iron-rich foods such as red meat, chicken,
liver and eggs.

Vegetarians should eat plenty of fortified breakfast cereals, leafy green
vegetables and dried fruit.

JOGGING Scientists have shown how jogging has a stress-reducing effect on the
brain. Studying mice running on a treadmill, they found that the further they
ran, the better the balance of chemicals in their brains.

KICKBOXING Naomi Campbell is among those who has used this v igorous exercise to
defuse stress.

"It raises blood levels of betaendorphins, the naturally occurring opiates that
raise our mood, " says Louise Sutton, head of health and exercise science at
Leeds Metropolitan University.

LETTUCE Having a salad with heaps of lettuce leaves could make you feel calmer.
Food scientists have found that the white, latexy sap that is released from
lettuce stalks when they are snapped contains small amounts of a natural
sedative called lactucarium.

MILK A milky drink helps to relax the brain at the end of a stressful day. This
is because the sugars in milk enable the brain to absorb more tryptophan (also
provided by the milk) from the bloodstream. The brain then converts tryptophan
into soothing, sleep-inducing serotonin.

OXYGEN Hard to believe, but breathing in the right way can relieve tension.
"Deep breathing acts like a tranquiliser, calming the nervous system, " says
yoga teacher Vimla Lalvani. She advises taking a few seconds to inhale and
exhale; as you inhale, extend the stomach outwards and contract as you breathe
out.

PASTA Pasta and other complex carbohydrates (bread, rice, pulses, oats) help to
boost energy levels, and also have a calming effect on the brain because they
increase levels of serotonin.

REGULAR SNACKING "Stress raises acid levels in the stomach which irritates the
lining of the gut wall, " says dietician Louise Sutton. She advises snacking
regularly to top up blood-glycogen stores and keep mind and body primed - dried
fruit, rice cakes, bagels and sugarfree cereals are good options.

SILENCE Sitting in silence for a few minutes a day is one of the best antidotes
to stress, says mind/body coach Gloria Roberts.

She advises meditating while you sit. "Gradually relax your muscles, mentally
focusing on each muscle area as you work through the body, " Roberts says.

TURKEY Don't save turkey for Christmas Day. This bird is rich in the amino acid
tryptophan, which the body needs to make the brain chemical serotonin, a
feelgood hormone.

VITAMINS AND MINERALS The body uses up certain nutrients more quickly when you
are stressed, including the B-vitamins, vitamin C and zinc. So eat plenty of
seafood, wholegrain cereals, fruit and vegetables.

WALKING Take a brisk walk at lunchtime and watch stress levels plummet.
Washington University researchers found that even a 10-minute walk made people
more relaxed and energetic.

YOGA All styles of this ancient exercise form are good stress-busters, but
Sivananda probably tops the list as the most relaxing. Contact www.
sivananda.org for a teacher or the British Wheel of Yoga (www. bwy. org. uk) for
other yoga teachers.

Zzzzz It is estimated that only one in five adults gets enough sleep, and the
rest of us fall well short of the recommended eight hours a night. This chronic
lack of shut-eye exacerbates stress, says Dr Nigel Ball, clinical director of
the Sleep Disorders Centre in Seattle and author of the Sleep Solution
(Vermilion, £9.99).

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              45 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           December 13, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Physician-assisted suicide is profoundly dangerous and not where medicine should
go

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1088 words


I AM saddened by Alistair McBay's apparent attempt (Letters, December 12) to be
so pejorative about religious belief when discussing such an important issue as
physician-assisted suicide; in particular by his criticism of Alasdair Fyfe's
"real" motivation behind his views in his very thoughtful and well-balanced
letter of the previous day, when he pointed out his clinical ethical position.

Doctors have an ethical code which is rooted in a few basic precepts, among
them: first, do no harm, then alleviate suffering where possible. Death is the
inevitable end for us all, and we all wish it to be dignified and with the
minimum of suffering.

As Alasdair Fyfe very clearly stated, all palliative measures should be put in
place to that end. This ethical code is common to all doctors, irrespective of
any or no religious background, and the attempt by Mr McBay to criticise Mr Fyfe
for doing what doctors do when they write anything - declare an associated
interest - is at best disappointing, and at worst shows a lack of tolerance of
the views of others.

What is profoundly dangerous in the legalising of physicianassisted suicide is
the basic fact that no  legislation is perfect and all- foreseeing - and as soon
as a law is enacted and "all appropriate safeguards", as Mr McBay would have it,
are defined, the next step is the redefining of these safeguards and pushing
these boundaries.

There is so much emphasis on the costs of healthcare at the expense of
discussing its effectiveness that it has almost become second nature not to
discuss a disease, its cause and its treatments but  to shout about how much
condition X costs the NHS. The question becomes when we as individuals will
require, as part of a cost-effective government healthcare policy, to be
compulsorily evaluated on our usefulness to - or our drain on - society, and
perhaps have all entitlements withdrawn.

A scenario too far? I certainly hope so, but remember: all it takes for evil to
triumph is for good men and women to do nothing.

Patrick McNally FRCS, Kennoch House, St Quivox, Ayr.

ACCORDING to Alistair McBay, anyone who reveals that they are Christian when
debating assisted  suicide - or anything else for that matter - is fair game to
have ascribed to them all the qualities that his bile can muster. His notion
that all atheists are perfectly rational while people of faith are always
irrational is ludicrous and utterly unsubstantiated - we all have our more or
less sensible moments. His picture of Christian people willingly submitting to
control by ministers is (especially in my case) laughable.

The Church of Scotland is a community that debates in public, and our arguments
with one another are sometimes good for us and sometimes not. Mr McBay's
prejudices show that it is he and not the church that is narrow-minded and
dogmatic. He is unwilling to believe that we are not as he needs us to be to
maintain his own prejudices. Like some others of his ilk, he has a picture of
what faith is that exists in his own mind - and in extreme groups that are
filmed or quoted to give credence to the sweeping generalisations by
fundamentalist secularists such as himself .

It is indeed possible that some people of faith will agree with Margo MacDonald,
just as some of no faith will differ from her. That is not the point, except for
Mr McBay, whose personal anti-religious stance overrides all else with
evangelical fervour.

Rev Ian Galloway, Convener, Church and Society Council, Church of Scotland, 121
George Street, Edinburgh.

ALISTAIR McBay's letter rather surprised and saddened me. It seems my considered
views are not "perfectly sane, reasoned or rational", for the simple reason that
I am a Christian. He is perfectly at liberty to disagree with my views, and
rationally and reasonably to argue his case. But to try to "discredit the
witness" because he is a Christian is not exactly fair game.

There are several cases against physician-assisted suicide (PAS):

The very distressing and difficult cases highlighted by the media give a
distorted view of the issue, and it is not good to fashion laws based upon
extreme cases. The law is a very blunt instrument that is there to protect the
majority, not cater for everyone's choice.

euros There is a "slippery slope", and we certainly will go down it if we
legislate for PAS. There are no "black and white" standards to go by on this
issue. Witness the Netherlands experience, where now  involuntary euthanasia is
practised on children and infants. That was certainly not the initial intention.
The slippery slope is real, and my concern is for the weak, the helpless, and
the elderly in the future.

Then there is the trust between doctor and patient. Margo MacDonald's proposed
bill would be for PAS. There are more than 2000 years of tradition that the
doctor will do nothing to harm or to kill a patient. That is a unique and
essential part of the doctor-patient relationship, and must be cherished at all
costs. Once we have doctors who practise PAS, that unique relationship is
altered forever, and the patients will be uncertain as to where they stand. This
is not acceptable, and is certainly not where I believe our medical profession
should go.

Margo MacDonald has a paper for consultation to which anyone in Scotland can
respond. It is interesting that she has built in several questions, but not one
of them asks basically: "Do you  think we should go down the route of PAS?" All
the questions assume we should, and are asking details about how we should go
ahead.

We need to be made very aware of the dangerous path that we are being encouraged
to travel down.

Alasdair H B Fyfe, 59 Mearns Road, Clarkston, Glasgow.

MARGO MacDonald's proposed bill on physician-assisted suicide is misconceived
and is unlikely to pass into law. The issue of assisted suicide should be
distinguished from that of physician-assisted suicide. In some circumstances, it
might be a good idea to allow some people to assist in the killing of, or even
to kill, some particular people, even if doctors should never be allowed to do
so.

After all, when capital punishment was legal, we did not expect or allow doctors
to hang people. Furthermore, it is the business of doctors to provide particular
sorts of medical treatment, not to do all that might comfort or please people.

In any case, the opposition of doctors in general and the BMA in particular will
probably scupper Ms MacDonald's proposals in their  current form.

Professor Hugh V McLachlan, School of Law and Social Sciences, Glasgow
Caledonian University.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            January 20, 2017 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Circus Closing A Loss For America

SECTION: OPINION; A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 642  words


Circus Closing A Loss For America

The closing of the "Greatest Show on Earth" has deep memories for me [Jan. 15,
news, "Ringling Bros. Circus To Close After 146 Years"].

My father, a well-known reporter for The Hartford Courant and The Hartford Times
for 37 years, took me to the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus a number
of times. The first I remember was 1940, and we waited after until the show was
taken down and packed. We walked from the site to the train yard and watched the
train cars get loaded. I remember walking next to the elephants and the workers
picking up the droppings.

When the Hartford circus fire happened in 1944, my father came home and took me
to the scene. I walked through the remains and vividly remember him interviewing
one of the Wallenda women, who was on the high wire at the start of the fire. I
have attended many circus performances in the "big top," as well as the Civic
Center. These memories will be with me forever. I feel the closing of the
Ringling Bros. circus is a great loss for us as a country.

George W. Bragdon Jr., Bloomfield

Will Businesses Restore

Health Insurance?

The Republican Congress appears to be poised to quickly repeal Obamacare -
otherwise known as the Affordable Care Act. This will have serious far-reaching
and immediate repercussions for our society and economy.

In the last four years, I worked for two small family-owned businesses, each
with fewer than 50 employees, here in Connecticut. The owners of each company
regularly disparaged President Barack Obama and Obamacare in particular.
Ironically, within a year of the Affordable Care Act's passage, both companies
canceled their employer-sponsored/subsidized health care plans and directed all
of their employees to Obamacare for medical insurance. These two companies
represented 82 employees plus family members who had had long-time,
employer-provided health insurance plans like most full-time working Americans
but were suddenly uninsured except through Obamacare.

Many other small businesses throughout Connecticut and the U.S. have similarly
extricated themselves from the costly business of providing
employer-supported/subsidized health insurance in order to save money, thanks to
the availability of Obamacare. This created a large new group of American
families who needed to find their own insurance. If Republicans succeed in
repealing Obamacare, will these same companies welcome their employees back to
an employer-sponsored/subsidized health care plan that has long been the
business model for health insurance in America?

I don't think so.

Scott K. Dresser, Colchester

We Must Follow Our Compass

What makes America great? The values and principles of our Constitution as our
moral, ethical and legal foundation and compass. While not perfect at its
inception because of the context of the times (e.g., slavery was legal), through
social actions and political process throughout our history and in the 1960s and
1970s, we refined it and our laws to more accurately reflect who we are as human
beings and what we stand for as a nation.

The more we lived these values and principles of shared power (democracy) and
universal dignity and well-being (equality), the more we prospered and thrived
and were world leaders. The further we drifted from and ignored these values and
principles through our economic-political system, the more we destroyed our
social and economic sustainability.

Our current inequitable economy and societal divisiveness are direct reflections
of our moral and ethical decay. We've lost our common foundation as human
beings. We've lost our connection to one another and grounding in what we stand
for as a nation: unity, diversity and freedom of choice. We've lost our personal
responsibility for the whole as active citizens in leading our lives. We've lost
our way.

Lucira Jane Nebelung, East Lyme

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                November 5, 2007

Deciding whether to take call in the ED

SECTION: PROFESSION; Ethics Forum; Pg. 22 Vol. 50 No. 41

LENGTH: 1236 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


 Is it ethical to leave hospital and emergency care to others?

Scenario: Is it ethical to leave hospital and emergency care to others?

Specialists in private practice increasingly limit their work exclusively to
outpatient care in private offices, leaving patients' hospital care to others
still at the hospital. What is the impact?

When colleagues stop taking emergency department and hospital call and expect
people like me to take care of their patients who get sick, I feel abused. Even
though their patients get the care they need, are free to change physicians and
aren't subject to unfair discrimination, it's not as if nobody gets hurt. I do.
And so do others like me.

Doctors who leave hospital and ED care to others violate the cardinal rule
learned early in internship: One never, never, dumps dirty work on a colleague.
Being a physician implies an obligation not only to our patients, but to each
other. We must share the pain if we are to be permitted to share the rewards. We
are not a fraternity, but a community. I believed it when I learned it, and I
believe it still.

It's not so simple, you say. You're right. I understand the other side of the
story, and it deserves to be heard.

Nobody I know went into medicine for the money. Sure, people get caught up in
it, but that wasn't the point for any doctor I know. It's just that matters get
complicated in a system that keeps demanding that we change how we do things,
for reasons only rarely having to do with helping patients.

I'm not old enough to have traded my services for chickens, but I know a few
rural Canadian docs who found themselves awash in cash and short of fresh eggs
when national health insurance arrived in the '70s. And I know American docs who
quit because they couldn't stay afloat seeing fewer than 25 patients an hour.
They were internists, family physicians -- the kinds of people writers wax
rhapsodic about -- who would check your prostate, your dad's lumbago, your kid's
earache and your neighbor's chilblains before and after they went on hospital
rounds six or seven days a week.

It's not just the pressure to produce that's the problem. It's the insult to
injury that's the worst. It's the administrator who says you have to join this
group or you'll lose your referral base and go belly up. It's the agency that
says -- under threat of ruinous fine or imprisonment for "fraud and abuse" --
you have to chart things just this way and not another, primarily to enable a
kid to read it and know what you billed for (which, face it, ain't necessarily
exactly what you did, since half the codes don't fit and the other half don't
make any sense). It's the personal injury lawyers who solicit reports of your
supposed malfeasance loudly on the air, for lots of money.

It's when you have the audacity to ask your bookkeeper how much you get paid for
something you do pretty routinely, and she says, "It depends on which
insurance."

And you say something like, "Oh, I don't know. Say, InsurerX."

And she says, "It depends."

And you say, "On what?"

And she says, "Well, who does the patient work for?"

And you say, "I don't know. Say, SnapitBuzzComm."

And she says, "Which policy?"

And you say, "What?"

And she says, "They have a dozen of them. They're all different. I can't tell
you without knowing which policy."

And you say, "Well, give me an average. Just give me an average."

And she says, "For InsurerX, or InsurerXPlus, or for everybody except Medicare
and Medicaid?"

And you say, "I don't know, whatever you want."

And she says, "Well, there are differences of at least 10% to 15% among them;
there are too many anyway."

And you say, "How many am I contracted with?"

And she says, "About 500."

So you make the mistake of taking the bull by the horns (just as they told you
in that practice seminar) and you phone "provider services" at InsurerX. After
20 minutes on hold in voice-mail hell, the brief conversation is too painful to
reproduce. The lady on the phone is allowed to look up only 10 codes at a time
for any given "provider," because "anything more would keep us from providing
excellent services to all our subscribers."

So you give up. Heck, you never thought of yourself as a "provider," at least
not to anybody but your family.

So you go back to slogging away at the work you love. You learn to accept
reproach slung casually in your direction by people who have no idea what you do
for a living. They don't see the holes in your schedule last week. They don't
see your bills; they don't see your payroll. They see only your busy, thriving
practice. They don't notice the tremor, the sweat, the sheer terror as you dash
from room to room, hoping you won't miss anything big enough to do anybody any
real harm, trying to keep up, to stay afloat, to stay alive. They don't see the
desperation.

It might be easier if all your colleagues were as understanding as they ought to
be: self-righteous curmudgeons like me, or virtuous academicians who don't know
what it's like to meet a payroll, or salaried people in group practices whose
guaranteed referrals and permanent waiting lists eliminate anxiety over anything
more than the bills at home and the number of hours in a day. They don't really
understand, either.

No, when you make the decision not to go to the ED anymore, it has nothing to do
with money. It's not a decision about "efficient use of time" or "lifestyle,"
nor is it necessarily a matter of expertise (at least not that you'd care to
admit). It's not a "choice," but a moment of existential reckoning, a
confrontation with reality. You do it for yourself, your family, your employees,
your patients. You abandon the hospital -- the scariest, most dangerous,
thrilling and rewarding work, the kind of work for which you were originally
trained -- neither to shield your coronary arteries nor to pad your coffers,
though doing so may or may not accomplish either. You do it to contract your
world to a livable size.

Sometimes I'm not sure why I don't do the same. I wonder when I'm finally going
to catch on, when I'm going to realize it really doesn't make any sense to keep
punishing yourself with unpaid late night calls about things you can't do
anything about. Nobody's going to thank you, and nobody will remember it when
you're in your grave.

And then I realize that it isn't a question of punishment or sacrifice. It's not
a question of "ethics." It's simply what I do. It's how I conceive my vocation,
and I have no desire to conceive it otherwise. It's why I became a physician.
It's why I feel kinship with my colleagues -- even those I chide here -- and
it's the last thing I can hang onto when I feel the rest slipping away, when I
mourn a professionalism so impoverished that we now believe it has to be taught.

So when somebody accuses you of dumping on colleagues, don't imagine I don't
know how you feel. Don't think me unsympathetic. Think of me as somebody who,
after 20 years, isn't there yet and doesn't want to be, a physician-dinosaur who
still hopes to find a way to survive with equanimity in the world in which he
was born. Maybe I'll come around someday, but not yet. I hope never. Or at least
not until that meteor comes along.

James Gordon, MD , neurologist, Seattle, Wash.; clinical associate professor of
neurology at the University of Washington; vice chair, Ethics, Law and
Humanities Committee of the American Academy of Neurology; chair, Ethics
Committee of Health Resources Northwest

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 6, 1996, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 515 words


How Health-Care Coverage Works In U.S. And Britain

Tom Engelhardt's June 25 cartoon, "Bags," describes very well the dilemma in
which the U.S. health-care system finds itself.

The health-care industry has unfortunately become a "for-profit" enterprise in
which CEOs get seven-figure salaries for cutting services, increasing profits
and restricting physicians from practicing medicine as they feel necessary.

What is also regrettable is that insurance companies like Blue Cross/Blue Shield
change from not-for-profit to "for-profit" enterprises and then engage in what
seems to be an attempt to neglect their responsibilities to turn over their
assets for charitable causes as required by law.

The "for-profit" motive can be eliminated if all organizations supporting a
national universal single-payer health insurance program would join together in
a single coalition, as was recommended at the national conference of Americans
for Democratic Action recently.

Such a coalition would then be a voice of support for the McDermott/Wellstone
bills establishing a national health insurance program.

The HMOs and the insurance companies have such coalitions. It is time for the
consumers to have theirs.

Eugene P. Schwartz

Ethical Action Committee

Ethical Society of St. Louis

University City

We arrived in London June 6, and after being there less than 12 hours, I had
breathing problems of the kind I have been coping with in the last year.

We called a doctor from the Croydon Doctors on Call, a medical service from
Thorton Health. The doctor arrived within one hour of the call and gave me a
complete checkup. He also gave me an Atrovent mist to help me breathe. Before
leaving, the doctor said that if were any other problems I should go to the
hospital.

Around 11:00 p.m. I did go to the hospital because I was having trouble
breathing again. The doctors and nurses were superb and treated me like a ing
with their professionalism. They gave me an EKG, a blood test and chest X-rays,
and checked my heart - a complete examination.

Then gave me a medication mist. I was in the emergency till 2:30 a.m. Before
they released me, the doctors gave me the same prescription medications I take
in St. Louis.

At home, the three prescriptions together cost about $ 86 for a week to two
weeks worth. In England, my charge for the medicines, plus all the medical
attention I received, was $ 7.50.m((ac

I am writing to let people know how well I was treated in England compared to
the good old U.S.A. I don't know what is going on here with me dical "inflation"
for people who are retired and who have fixed incomes. We can't afford such
costly medical care. The treatment that I received In London would have cost
about $ 1,000 in the United States. cwIm

Why can't we cut down on medical costs as they have done in other countries. Why
should we pay such high medical bills for no reason at all, just to breathe!

I and others who have similar problems hope someone will do something about
medical inflation and the "cost of Life."

Roy Boster

Maplewood

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              49 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Pakistan Today

                            July 24, 2013 Wednesday

Misappropriation of insurance funds - just an ethical issue?

LENGTH: 595  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


Nothing appears to be more 'emergent and important' than the health of the
father of Punjab Education Department Human Resource (HR) Deputy Managing
Director (DMD) Amir Iftikhar Ahmad who allegedly misappropriated Rs 300,000 from
the department's emergency health insurance funds which were gathered by the
department's employees through a monthly installment.

A PEF official told Pakistan Today, "The DMD transferred the total amount of the
emergency allowance into his personal account for the medical treatment of his
father. During this time employees made several requisitions to acquire funds
from the pool but their request was rejected time and again by the DMD, making
one excuse after another."

The official informed that the matter surfaced at a meeting held by PEF Chairman
Raja Anwer who had been on medical leave. Different heads of departments brought
the matter to the knowledge of the chairman over the "blatant misuse" of power
and authority.

DEPRIVED:

Sources reveal that the hard earned money of the department's employees was not
made available to the employees themselves in the need of the hour.

One of the employees also dispatched an application, a copy of which is
available with Pakistan Today, to the Punjab chief secretary, secretary
education, chief minister's monitoring teams and various other high government
offices, explaining the matter in detail.

A handout issued by PEF HR Department to its employees indicated that the
contract for the ongoing year was given to Adamjee Insurance Company to cover
medical expenses of its employees, for which monthly installments are deposited.
The company has an emergency pool of a maximum of Rs 5,000 for each employee to
cover emergency medical expenses.

SAVING THE SKIN?

Sources told Pakistan Today that the PEF employees fear that senior officials in
the department were trying to save Amir's skin.

While Amir was instructed by the chairman to deposit the entire amount back into
the account, some senior employees were of the view that anybody involved in
'misplacing' funds should be dealt with strictly instead of being pardoned after
returning the amount.

"The PEF deals with donation money coming from international agencies and doles
out money to schools across Punjab. This will imply any officer misusing funds,
if caught, can get away with handing the money back with no accountability,"
said a senior officer.

According to the PEF chairman, "Even the National Accountability Bureau (NAB)
offers fraudsters to deposit back money acquired by unfair means." He further
stated that no one has the authority to withdraw those funds except the Finance
DMD, so misusing public money is out of the question.

JUST AN ETHICAL ISSUE?

DMD (Finance) Salman Anwer confirmed that Amir did not withdraw any money from
the fund but transferred health insurance money meant for all employees into his
account. "It is more of an ethical issue," he said.

To a question, he said Amir was responsible for selecting the insurance firm on
behalf of all the employees every year. "Investigations have been completed and
the amount has been deposited back into the account," he added.

DMD (HR) Amir Iftikhar confessed that he did use health insurance money for his
ailing father's treatment but not public money. "It is our understanding with
the insurance company that if we need more money, we can take it from them and
can return it later," he said.

To a question, he said no one was denied claims for insurance money. "It is
grossly incorrect if any employee claims that his requisition for emergency pool
remained pending."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 16, 1999

Be virtuous for just pounds 1

SECTION: Guardian Jobs and Money Pages; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 507 words


When most people think of ethical finance they focus on stock market
investments. Yet almost any financial product can be ethical, as this week's
Jobs & Money's guide shows. You can get ethical with your savings from as little
as pounds 1, writes Patrick Sherwen.

From pounds 1: Ecology Bank offers a cash individual savings account paying 4.3%
interest on balances of pounds 1 or more. Ethical investors should also consider
whether their current accounts are managed according to their principles.
Co-operative Bank and Triodos Bank offer current accounts and themselves adopt
ethical policies. Co-operative shies away from third world debt and only invests
in socially responsible companies.

From pounds 10 a month: Nature Save, based in Oxford, is a broker offering
ethical household, travel and commercial insurance. And 10% of all premiums are
donated to the Nature Save trust to fund environmental projects.

Life insurance, critical ill ness cover and permanent health insurance can be
provided on an ethical basis. Skandia Life offers whole-of-life insurance with
an ethical investment element at a minimum monthly premium of only pounds 15,
invested in the Royal Skandia Jupiter Ecology Fund. Skandia and Sun Life also
offer critical illness policies which invest in ethical funds.

From pounds 1,000: A growing number of investment companies now offer ethical
unit trusts which can be placed within an individual savings account. Long
-standing favourites include funds from Friends Provident, NPI and Jupiter,
although others have launched funds in recent years. Minimum investment is
typically pounds 1,000, although regular savings schemes begin at around pounds
25 per month. A relatively new entrant to the ethical fund market is Murray
Johnstone's Ethical World Fund, which uses the strength of the leading ethical
research centre in the US, Calvert Research.

From pounds 5,000: Downing Corporate Finance launched the UK's first ethical
venture capital trust (VCT) this week. Minimum investment is pounds 5,000 and it
will invest in companies making a positive contribution to society. VCTs are
risky investments, since such young companies may not always succeed, but they
have the benefit of providing up to 60% tax relief on gains.

From pounds 50,000: Investors with capital of pounds 50,000 to pounds 200,000
may be best off using the services of a portfolio management service. Brewin
Dolphin, Capel-Cure Sharp, Greig Middleton and Rathbones all offer specialist
ethical services and can be contacted through the Association of Private Client
Stockbrokers and Investment Managers (Apcims).

From pounds 200,000: With sums of this magnitude, investors have the leverage to
negotiate with fund management groups to create bespoke unit trusts or open
-ended investment companies.

Callers to the IFA Promotion hotline can request the name of an independent
financial adviser specialising in ethical investment. Tel 0117-971-1177. Nature
Save; 01865-242280; Apcims; 0171-247-7080


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              51 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday

Doctor not a transplant society member

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: MATSUYAMA


A doctor who transplanted an allegedly illegally purchased kidney has never been
a member of the Japan Society for Transplantation, which sets ethical guidelines
for transplants, it was learned Monday.

The 59-year-old man who received the kidney and his 59-year-old common-law wife
were arrested Sunday on suspicion of violating the Organ Transplant Law.

Makoto Mannami, head of the urology department of Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital in
Uwajima, Ehime Prefecture, told The Yomiuri Shimbun that he had never taken any
measures other than checking health insurance certificates to confirm the
identities of donors.

The society is the only organization that stipulates the eligibility of donors
and the procedures for conducting organ transplants. Since the illegal
transplant was conducted by a nonmember doctor, the society is facing problems
on how to conduct investigations and how to take measures.

The society's secretariat confirmed that Mannami, 65, and other doctors at
Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital never belonged to the society.

Mannami, however, is a renowned figure who has conducted a substantial number of
kidney transplants in Uwajima.

After graduating from Yamaguchi University in 1969, Mannami began working at
Uwajima Municipal Hospital. He conducted 545 kidney transplants from living
donors from 1977 to 2004, when he retired from the city hospital.

In 2000 alone, the hospital conducted 36 kidney transplants from living donors--
the second-largest number in the nation--and 35 transplants in 2001, which was
ranked third in the nation, according to the society.

After he moved to Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital, which opened in April 2004,
Mannami conducted 82 transplants.

His research focused on kidney transplants between patients and donors with
different blood types, as well as ways to treat patients with new medicines, but
Mannami reportedly did not present his findings at academic society meetings.

Mannami was the only doctor in charge of kidney transplants from living donors
conducted at the Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital. Concerning the identification of
donors, he told The Yomiuri Shimbun, "I confirmed it by seeing a health
insurance certificate, but there's no other way to confirm it, aside from
believing what the person says." He also said he did not take any other forms of
identification from the donors.

Mannami used the same method to confirm the identities of donors at the
municipal hospital. Mikio Ichikawa, director of the Uwajima Hospital, said:
"Although almost all the transplant cases were conducted by Dr. Mannami, he
managed to establish a rapport with patients and their families. So we didn't
conduct any particular inspections [to confirm the donors' identity]."

The society's ethical guidelines do not specify concrete procedures to confirm
the identities of organ donors and the kinship between donors and patients. Such
procedures are generally left to the discretion of individual hospitals.

"We have never thought about how to apply the ethical guidelines to a nonmember
doctor," said society president Koichi Tanaka. Because the guidelines are
nonbinding, Tanaka said the best option would be for the hospital to voluntarily
set up its own investigation committee and the society could provide
professional assistance.

"Basically, the hospital has a problem... because it has no ethical committee
and has not obtained any written consent from the patient about the transplant,"
he said.

Couple explored other options

The common-law couple in Uwajima arrested on suspicion of violating the Organ
Transplant Law, tried to persuade a male relative of the husband to donate his
kidney, it has been learned.

According to the police and Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital, Suzuo Yamashita, a
59-year-old director of a fishery firm, suffered from diabetes. His condition
worsened two or three years ago and a transplant became his only option.
Yamashita's common-law wife, Tomoko Matsushita, 59, offered to donate her
kidney.

In April 2005, the couple visited Makoto Mannami, the head of urology at the
hospital and the doctor who later performed the operation for Yamashita. But the
couple's blood types did not match.

They later brought Yamashita's relative to see Mannami at the hospital as a
possible donor. However, the relative was reluctant to donate his kidney and
eventually refused.

Police suspect Matsushita was so desperate to help Yamashita that she offered
money and a car to a woman if she would donate her kidney.

She falsely introduced the woman as her sister to Mannami at the hospital,
saying she could be a potential donor.

The couple asked Mannami to perform tests to see if the woman could donate a
kidney for Yamashita. After confirming the blood types were a match, they asked
the woman to go through with the transplant several times since August 2005.

The woman agreed, and the transplant was conducted in September 2005.

The police sent the couple to the public prosecutor's office Monday afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday

Some drugs are more equal than others;
It s proposed that public consultation would take place before deciding which
drugs and treatments the State should fund, and which ones we can t afford

BYLINE: Martin Wall

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 886 words


Over the past couple of years controversy has flared on a number of occasions
over whether the State should or should not pay for newly available drugs or
treatments that offer major advances for patients but come at an extremely high
price.

In a number of cases, the Government intervened and ensured that new drugs were
made available, for example, to patients with particular types of cancer or
cystic fibrosis despite the products having failed cost-effectiveness tests.

It is inevitable that patients with a particular condition along with their
families and friends would argue strongly that newly developed treatments or
drugs that offer greater potential should be available in the public health
service.

However, on the other hand, the costs involved can be extremely high at a time
of already stretched health budgets.

Last year, for example, it emerged that one cancer drug, with a price tag of
around EUR 74,000 for an 18-month course of treatment, could cost the health
service about EUR 39 million over five years to treat 130 patients.

It is generally agreed in the health service that these arguments will continue
and probably intensify in the years ahead as more drugs and treatments emerge
with very high costs.Set of valuesThe draft white paper on universal health
insurance, drawn up by the Minister for Health, James Reilly, proposes that as a
society we should prepare for this eventuality and lay down a set of values that
would underpin decisions in this area in the future.

Perhaps the key issue in the whole plan for universal health insurance is what
should be contained in the standard health basket - the package of services for
which everyone in the country will have to be insured.

The draft white paper says that decisions on the composition of the future
health basket are not simple or straightforward.

"Rather, they are complex and multi-faceted, involving various technical,
economic and ethical considerations."

Above all, the draft white paper asserts, "they are deeply value-laden".

"And, as such it is very important that the values underpinning the health
basket reflect the values of the society served by that health basket."Establish
a commissionBut what are the core values of our rapidly changing society and how
should they be determined as they affect healthcare?

The document says that the Government would establish a commission to engage
extensively with the public before finally making recommendations to Ministers
on what should be contained in the standard health basket.

It says that as part of the consultation process, the new commission would
develop a "values framework" that would embrace the ethical, economic and
technical issues and which would be used in assessing health services and
technologies.

The draft white paper puts forward its own illustrative values framework -
essentially a series of questions - "as a starting point to aid the development
process and stimulate collective deliberation and public debate".

While some of these questions such as asking whether treatments, services or
technologies are safe or achieve the desired outcomes are relatively
non-contentious, others would undoubtedly prove to be hugely controversial.

For example, the draft document poses the question as to whether a treatment,
service or technology was "essential" and how this should be defined.

"Should all life-saving treatments be considered essential or should quality of
life and life expectancy be taken into account when considering whether
life-saving treatments are essential."

Specifically it asks whether any service, technology or treatment would have to
demonstrate substantial health gains or years of life gains in order to be
considered essential.

"Are services which are palliative rather than curative essential and how do we
prioritise between two different types of services?

"In addition to concepts of 'life-saving' and 'health improving', should the
concept of 'maintaining human dignity' be factored into considerations of which
services are deemed essential?"

The draft document also raises the issue of treatments provided for religious or
lifestyle reasons. It asks whether circumcisions or services to remove tattoos
should be considered essential.

Perhaps more controversially the draft white paper questions how or whether as a
society we should consider the resource implications of providing particular
treatments or services on the health system or even the whole economy.

"What is the opportunity cost of a decision to fund this treatment? Could the
money be spent to better effect on other health services, on other public
services or private consumption, ie what is the net welfare benefit relative to
other policy options?

"Is it fair to share this cost at a societal level or should some costs be a
matter for personal responsibility?"

Senior Government figures said last week that up to now decisions on issues such
as these have been determined behind closed doors. However, with the move to a
new model of healthcare provision, it was felt that a broader public view should
be canvassed.

Fascinating debate                     The likelihood of consensus emerging
around many of these questions may be remote, but the debate on the values we
wish to underpin our healthcare system of the future should prove fascinating.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                          September 8, 2004 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

It may not be 'Medifraud' - but it is 'Mediwaste'

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 403 words


Is the level of "leakage" from Medicare through fraud, rorting and abuse by
doctors and others "less than 1 per cent" as claimed by the Health Insurance
Commission and a spokeswoman for federal Health Minister Tony Abbott (The Age,
6/9) - or something a lot bigger? The evidence on public record supports the bad
news: that lots of money leaks away, it's no easy job to seal the hole, and much
of the behaviour is not fraudulent. Some examples:

Over the years, a few GPs have been investigated for over-servicing. Now, even
the most ethical GP might occasionally work an extraordinary day in the depths
of an epidemic, and attend 80 or even 100 patients. But, is it sustainable,
ethical, quality care if it happens day after day? Not very likely. How many GPs
have been successfully prosecuted for over-servicing? Very few.

Ask most GPs: in watching the bottom line, we have to blend it right - quality
care, with the best staff and equipment, and also keep on pumping the numbers
through. It's not fraud, but "leakage".

Next, have you visited a public outpatient clinic recently? No? Well, don't
forget your Medicare card, as Medicare will pay the specialist for this
state-run service. Not very long ago, the state paid a (small) honorarium.
Suddenly, in the blink of an eye, some outpatient clinics were privatised -
saving the state money, increasing the specialists' incomes, with Medicare
paying another unintended and unplanned cost. Another hairline crack, more
drips.

Finally, the new "safety net" - what's happening here? Ideally, this would
support out-of-hospital patients with chronic illness, needing frequent visits
to the GP, tests and specialist opinions. Wrong. It has been cleverly used, with
Medicare's approval, to cover the in-hospital gap for having a baby.

How is this so? Obstetricians have simply allocated the "gap" for the birth of
up to $3000, which is not covered by the safety net, to 10 antenatal visits. So
each visit costs $300 plus, and the rebate is $26. The patient quickly reaches
the threshold, and Medicare kicks in 80 per cent of the gaps, and will subsidise
that $3000 by more than 50 per cent.

Remember, this is a private fee, there is an excellent, free public system, and
Medicare was never intended to prop up private health care - certainly not to
this extent. Almost an open tap, this one.

Medifraud? Debatable. Mediwaste? Unequivocally, yes!

Dr Andrew Slutzkin, rural GP, Seymour

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             The Citizen Gloucester

                             July 25, 2017 Tuesday

Call to eradicate smoking in UK

SECTION: AGENCY:CITY; Pg. 10-11

LENGTH: 199  words


THERE has been a call by the public health minister this week for the country to
make a final push to ensure the virtual eradication of smoking in this country
in the foreseeable future.

Smoking is still a scourge, to which about 79,000 deaths are attributed each
year in England.

For people who hold stocks and shares ISAs, there is something very positive
that can be done: check whether the funds in which the investments are held
include shares in tobacco companies.

Among many fund managers these remain a  favoured area for "secure" dividends.

I recently learnt that at least one major investment company, AXA Investment
Management, had decided to cease investing in tobacco stocks in all its funds.
As a leading insurer, with a large life and health insurance business, AXA
decided that there was a clear ethical conflict between investing in health
destroying and health enhancing financial products.

I hope that other fund management companies will follow suit and make such
decisions public, in order to gain useful publicity for the cause of reducing
smoking.

"Ethical" investment policies are not only beneficial to people's well-being but
are proving to be financially successful too.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                             July 25, 2017 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Call to eradicate smoking in the UK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 198 words


THERE has been a call by the public health minister this week for the country to
make a final push to ensure the virtual eradication of smoking in this country
in the foreseeable future.

Smoking is still a scourge, to which about 79,000 deaths are attributed each
year in England.

For people who hold stocks and shares ISAs, there is something very positive
that can be done: check whether the funds in which the investments are held
include shares in tobacco companies.

Among many fund managers these remain a favoured area for "secure" dividends.

I recently learnt that at least one major investment company, AXA Investment
Management, had decided to cease investing in tobacco stocks in all its funds.
As a leading insurer, with a large life and health insurance business, AXA
decided that there was a clear ethical conflict between investing in health
destroying and health enhancing financial products.

I hope that other fund management companies will follow suit and make such
decisions public, in order to gain useful publicity for the cause of reducing
smoking.

"Ethical" investment policies are not only beneficial to people's well-being but
are proving to be financially successful too.

DS

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2017 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             May 5, 1993, Wednesday

Clinton's health-care plan could take away our freedom of choice

BYLINE: TERRY SANDERSON Atlanta Terry Sanderson has lived in Atlanta for less
than a year. He is pursuing a graduate degree in mechanical engineering at
Georgia Tech and enjoys hiking and canoeing in his free time.health; care;
reform; taxation; public; reaction; opinion

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 15

LENGTH: 347 words


The Editors: President Clinton is promising us Utopia: "adequate and affordable
health care for all." While many Americans support Clinton's efforts, some of us
who wonder if our rights and freedom will be preserved when Clinton is done?

Let me define freedom: It is that state of affairs where all people are allowed
to make their own decisions, take their own risks and reap the consequences or
benefits thereof. Will doctors who don't wish to join Clinton's program be free
to not join? Will the rest of us be free to not join, by not having to pay the
hefty taxes this program will cost? Or will we all have to "buy''
government-sponsored health insurance by force of law?

I wonder very much if Clinton and his task force have fully considered ethics in
their planning. The way cotton was grown prior to the Civil War "worked" just
fine, but it wasn't ethical. The question "will Clinton's plan work?" is
irrelevant until one first answers the question: Is what he plans to do ethical?

We all earn our income with our labor. Our labor is our time - the time of our
lives. If the government forcibly takes our income to pay for this program, it
will be saying that we have no right to dispose of our income. Which means we
have no right to dispose of our lives as we see fit. Anyone who is not free to
dispose of his own life is not free, but is a slave.

If what Clinton really wants is charity from the American people to pay for
health care for those who can't afford it, then let him ask us for it directly.
Let the American people decide of their own free volition whether or not they
will give such charity.

I submit to you: If government imposes taxation for health care on us all by
law, then this health-care plan will be fundamentally unethical.

The force of law eliminates individual choice. If Clinton really values freedom,
let him make his medical "reform" a private venture, not a government program
with the force of law. Free enterprise ventures, should they go wrong, are far
more readily dissolved and/or restructured than government bureaucracies.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH931490392

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              57 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             The Citizen Gloucester

                             July 25, 2017 Tuesday

Call to eradicate smoking in the UK

SECTION: AGENCY:CITY; Pg. 10-11

LENGTH: 199  words


THERE has been a call by the public health minister this week for the country to
make a final push to ensure the virtual eradication of smoking in this country
in the foreseeable future.

Smoking is still a scourge, to which about 79,000 deaths are attributed each
year in England.

For people who hold stocks and shares ISAs, there is something very positive
that can be done: check whether the funds in which the investments are held
include shares in tobacco companies.

Among many fund managers these remain a  favoured area for "secure" dividends.

I recently learnt that at least one major investment company, AXA Investment
Management, had decided to cease investing in tobacco stocks in all its funds.
As a leading insurer, with a large life and health insurance business, AXA
decided that there was a clear ethical conflict between investing in health
destroying and health enhancing financial products.

I hope that other fund management companies will follow suit and make such
decisions public, in order to gain useful publicity for the cause of reducing
smoking.

"Ethical" investment policies are not only beneficial to people's well-being but
are proving to be financially successful too.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This stunning garden which was opened to the public at Upper Slaughter
Manor was photographed by Linda Cook

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                             July 25, 2017 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Call to eradicate smoking in UK;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 199 words


¦ THERE has been a call by the public health minister this week for the country
to make a final push to ensure the virtual eradication of smoking in this
country in the foreseeable future.

Smoking is still a scourge, to which about 79,000 deaths are attributed each
year in England.

For people who hold stocks and shares ISAs, there is something very positive
that can be done: check whether the funds in which the investments are held
include shares in tobacco companies.

Among many fund managers these remain a favoured area for "secure" dividends.

I recently learnt that at least one major investment company, AXA Investment
Management, had decided to cease investing in tobacco stocks in all its funds.
As a leading insurer, with a large life and health insurance business, AXA
decided that there was a clear ethical conflict between investing in health
destroying and health enhancing financial products.

I hope that other fund management companies will follow suit and make such
decisions public, in order to gain useful publicity for the cause of reducing
smoking.

"Ethical" investment policies are not only beneficial to people's well-being but
are proving to be financially successful too.

DS

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2017 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Long Island Business News (New York)

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday

Ex LI pharmacist arrested

BYLINE: Claude Solnik

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 245  words


William Davis, the 62-year-old former owner of Davis Ethical Pharmacy in
Rockville Centre, was arrested Thursday and charged with larceny for allegedly
submitting phony prescription records to be reimbursed.

Davis pleaded not guilty in  Nassau County District Court in connection with
fraudulently obtaining reimbursements from Medicaid and the New York State
Health Insurance Program from 2008 through 2011, when he sold the business.

Attorneys representing Davis, who now lives in Lake Ariel, Penn., couldn't be
reached for comment as of the writing of this report.

Acting Nassau County District Attorney Madeline Singas charged that he had taken
more than $230,000 "from the taxpayers of New York by submitting fraudulent
billing claims. "

An audit by New York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli discovered the allegedly
fraudulent billing, including a prescription written at a time when the
physician was deceased and another allegedly written by a physician who wasn't
the patient's prescribing doctor.

Auditors also found 23 prescriptions allegedly were overbilled for a total of
$12,000. Medicaid paid Davis Ethical $778,000 for roughly 7,000 claims during
the audit period.

The Comptroller's findings lead to a joint investigation that also included the
Nassau County District Attorney and the New York State Department of Financial
Services.

http://www.libn.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

Oregon: RN - Cardiology (Treadmill)

LENGTH: 727  words

DATELINE: Salem


Department of Employment, The State of Oregon has issued the following Job
release:

Job Listing ID:   1111685          Job Title:    RN - Cardiology (Treadmill)

Application Deadline:  Open Until Filled  Job Location:  Clackamas
Date Posted:  04/01/2014  Hours Worked Per Week:  40
Computer Skills:  N/A  Shift:   Day Shift
Occupational Skills:  N/A  Duration of Job:   Either Full or Part Time, more
than 6 months
Self Referral Job You may contact this employer directly.


Job Summary:   The RN participates as a member of the health care team in
delivering quality health care to patients, which supports Kaiser Permanente''s
mission, vision and values. The RN provides a variety of nursing services both
in person and by phone utilizing the nursing process and leadership skills to
address acute and chronic needs of Health Plan members and other patients of the
Kaiser Permanente Health Care Program. He/she works under the general direction
of the designated supervisor. Essential Functions: - Demonstrates personal
commitment to service and to socially relevant practice. - Demonstrates
behaviors that illustrate commitment to KP Promise (quality you can trust,
caring with a personal touch, convenient and easy and affordable). - Adheres to
Quality of Service Standards and Behavioral Guidelines. - Demonstrates ethical
and legal behavior in all professional activities. - Acts as an advocate for
individuals, groups and communities. - Demonstrates accountability for own
ethical behavior and for delegated actions. - Demonstrates responsible and
accountable behavior concerning own work schedule. - Understands and supports
Kaiser Permanente policies, legal considerations and professional ethics. -
Adheres to Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and
confidentiality policies. - Utilizes a critical thinking approach to problem
solve and make decisions. - Applies analytical reasoning, reflection and
rational problem-solving skills, using verifiable information, and clinical
judgment, in order to choose among alternative solutions to clinical problems. -
Fosters and uses innovative thinking to create alternative solutions. -
Demonstrates the ability to analyze, synthesize and utilize data to provide
optimal nursing care. - Understands and provides competent care to a diverse
population. - Uses knowledge of cultural differences to provide nursing care
that is sensitive to and consistent with cultural values, beliefs, and customs.
- Provides culturally sensitive teaching materials to individuals, families and
groups. - Practices health care team building and leadership skills. - Applies
leadership skills to facilitate effective team functioning and operations of the
module or department. - Role models and facilitates change within the health
care team to respond to health care and organizational needs. - Directs,
delegates, and monitors quality of care delivered by the health care team and
brings deviations to the attention of staff involved and Team Leader. - Mentors
new staff and assists with orientation and staff development needs. -
Collaborates with Team Leader and Manager in setting quality standards for
nursing care and in the development of policies and procedures. - Provides input
to Team Leader and Manager about the job performance of other RNs, LPNs and
unlicensed personnel in the health care team. - Demonstrates commitment to
customer service. - Participates in population-based care activities. -
Participates in ''out reach'' and ''in reach'' activities to meet clinical
targets. - Effectively identifies needs and provides prevention, early
intervention and ongoing health education for panel population, individual
patient and family. - Assists individuals and groups to learn self-management
skills that promote and protect health. - Develops teaching plans for
individuals and groups related to health promotion and disease prevention. -
Demonstrates technological literacy in using computerized information systems. -
Accesses, evaluates and uses data and information from a wide range of
resources. - Facilitates the members'' use of health care technologies. - This
job description is not all encompassing. Qualifications: Basic Qualifications:
Experience - Minimum two (2) years of experience in acute care o

For further information please visit: http://www.emp.state.or.us/

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 1, 2005 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

America's resolution should be to create universal health care

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 2885 words


A New Year's resolution of the American people for the upcoming year should be
to take the weapon of ethical right to their political representatives relative
to the need for a viable national health insurance plan that will cover all
Americans. Tens of millions of Americans have no medical coverage because it is
not affordable. We, as a nation, must better this state of affairs. Medical care
must be made accessible and affordable to every citizen. In addition, the
average American worker must have the same quality of health care as the wealthy
elite, including members of Congress.

Ponder the consequences of health care if we had an organized, efficient medical
entity devoid of waste and corruption that would render health care equally,
whether you are president or peasant. Should not the spirit of our medical care
be more compatible with our general ethical views? In the long run, any
government system is maintained by faith in the soundness and truthfulness with
which it represents and advances the interests of a people. Our American
government must summon up the energy to take corrective measures in the medical
realm.

Everybody talks about homeland security, but isn't part of the protection of our
people seeing to it that they are treated for life-threatening medical maladies
and serious diseases? Billions of dollars are spent for the welfare of
foreigners abroad, but what of our own unhealthy and sick Americans here - what
of their welfare?

Robert B. Fleming, St. Petersburg

Improving the lives of patients

Re: The pharmaceutical industry puts profit before people, letter, Dec. 22.

I'm not sure whether the letter writer has ever needed any of the miracle drugs
our pharmaceutical industry is dedicated to creating, but such medications are
the ones that make it possible for me to write this response. I almost died from
end-stage liver disease. However, modern treatments saved my life. My sister had
breast cancer. Modern medications both saved her life and greatly reduced her
suffering.

Yes, doctors, hospitals and pharmaceutical companies make a living helping
patients lead ever better and more productive lives. However, this seems of
little importance because America is a capitalistic society and profits drive
every invention any of use. Additionally, most companies offer free or reduced
medicines through a patient assistance program for those who otherwise would be
unable to afford them. This is a clear example of putting people before profit.

I remember waiting for years, crippled by the pain of ruptured discs and
arthritis, for Vioxx and Celebrex to finally be approved. Vioxx was a miracle to
me. It changed my life. I can still do all sorts of things because of Vioxx. And
now that Vioxx was so abruptly recalled, because of Bextra.

My brother, an attorney who is severely crippled by diabetes, was confined to a
wheelchair. Then he tried Celebrex and now he can walk a bit. This is a miracle
to me and our family - one that without this medicine we may not have been able
to experience.

Personally, I'm grateful to the scientists, doctors, nurses, hospitals, the FDA
and pharmaceutical companies that together better the lives of patients like me,
my brother and sister. I give the makers of Vioxx, Celebrex and Bextra kudos. I
know the risks inherent in using these medications. However, that's a risk I'm
willing to take to be able to lead a full, happy and productive life!

Steve Kersker, St. Petersburg

Focus on consumers, not investors

Re: Drug companies make a killing on the uninsured, by Peter Rost, and In a
panic over painkillers, by William Safire, Dec. 29.

In 1994, while driving a taxi in St. Petersburg, I encountered something that I
shall never forget. I picked up a little old lady who was going to the Northeast
Shopping Center to get a drug prescription filled. This lady had a beautiful
smile and a pleasant manner, but my trained eye as an infantry medic veteran
told me that she had all the symptoms of severe malnutrition. Her pretty dress
fit over her frail figure like a potato sack. And her thinning hair with bald
patches, her paper-thin, desiccated skin and veins popping out of her skin near
her temples indicated that unless she got prompt medical attention, she was not
long for this world.

"Ma'am, you need to put some meat on your bones," I said.

"I'm on a fixed income, and it's either eat or get this drug prescription
filled," she said.

Poor thing didn't realize that taking drugs on an empty stomach was worse than
not taking the drugs at all. When this little sweetheart got out of the cab, she
smiled and handed me the fare. There was a dollar tip included.

The point is, what is wrong with society when we let these angels drop off like
flies? I've been told that the pharmaceutical companies have a program that
gives those who are financially in need all their drugs at a lesser cost. If
that be the case, where is the disconnect? Are not the personal physicians
telling their patients? Or is this a case of the pharmaceutical companies hiding
this benefit under an obscure title, in fine print?

Although Rost and Safire's articles are commendable, something needs to be done
now for those who are dying from malnutrition and drug toxicity, and those who
are dying from the side effects of drugs that have been tested and found to be
safe.

Maybe it is time for the pharmaceutical companies to focus more on the health of
the consumer and less on the investor and a healthy bottom line.

John Mashburn, Largo

Happiness is being called "Grandma'

Re: These days, being called "Granny" is not so grand, Dec. 25.

I read the Christmas Day article concerning grandparents not wanting to be
called "Grandma" or "Grandpa" because it makes them feel too old with great
sadness.

I remember how it warmed my heart to be called "Grandma" by my grandson for the
first time. I felt honored. Many people don't live long enough to hear that word
spoken to them. It is a milestone in life.

The biggest grief of my life is having to be apart from my four grandchildren in
another state.

So, don't call me Nana, Mamason, Gigi, or whatever other meaningless words
people are now using. "Grandparents" should be one of the most honored words in
the dictionary.

When I die I want my epitaph to read: "If you could cut open my heart you would
find my grandchildren."

Joanna Harrington, Treasure Island

Give the gift of advocacy

With the holiday season, community members are once again opening their hearts
and wallets to a variety of worthy charitable causes.

Of course, charity isn't only about checkbooks and charge cards. This time of
year also brings out the spirit of volunteerism, as Americans donate their time
and energy to soup kitchens, canned-food-collection drives, and more. Those are
great and worthwhile contributions, of immense value. But there's another sort
of contribution that can make a huge difference - the gift of advocacy on behalf
of worthy organizations and causes.

When concerned citizens contact their elected officials on behalf of important
causes, advocacy can pay huge benefits. For example, on an issue I care deeply
about - creating quality after-school opportunities for every child that needs
them - I have no doubt that the thousands of citizens who have reached out to
their elected officials have made an enormous difference.

The last 10 years have seen a surge in the number and quality of after-school
programs - not just extracurricular clubs, but formal programs at schools,
community centers, houses of worship and elsewhere, where children regularly
spend the afternoon hours engaged in constructive activities under the
supervision of caring adults. Much of the growth in after-school programs has
been the result of the federal 21st Century Community Learning Centers
initiative, a wildly popular federal funding stream that supports after-school
programs serving 1.4-million children.

Two years ago, the 21st Century initiative faced a severe challenge: a proposed
40-percent funding cut. But after-school supporters did a remarkable thing: they
flooded Congress with letters, cards, phone calls and personal visits, and
persuaded lawmakers to restore the funding. As a result, after-school programs
serving hundreds of thousands of children were saved.

But the challenge facing the after-school community is far from over. The
president's No Child Left Behind Act laid out a multi-year road map for gradual
funding increases for after-school programs. And while cuts have been defeated,
the promised increases have not materialized.

Here in St. Petersburg, that means thousands of children are unsupervised each
afternoon - wasting their time, getting into trouble, or worse, getting hurt.
Pinellas County currently has between 3,000 and 4,000 children on a waiting list
for care.

There's no doubting what citizen advocacy can accomplish on behalf of programs
meeting genuine community needs. So as you're contemplating your charitable
giving, it's worth considering adding a little advocacy into the mix. That may
mean sending a letter to Congress on behalf of after-school programs, or on any
issue that matters to you. But whatever cause moves you, think of advocacy as a
personal gift of time to your community and country.

Debra Ballinger, afterschool ambassador and program services director, R'Club
Child Care Inc., St. Petersburg

A legacy of selflessness

Thank you for the excellent coverage on Wednesday, Dec. 22 by Ernest Hooper on
Homes for the Holidays spearheaded in large part by the Warrick Dunn Foundation.
The Tampa Bay area is fortunate to have individuals like Dunn. His leadership
has truly changed the lives of the 52 single mothers whom he has assisted in
achieving the American dream of owning their own home. As the article pointed
out, only one of the 52 homeowners involved in this program over the past five
years in the Tampa, St. Petersburg, Baton Rouge and Atlanta metropolitan areas
has failed to keep their home. To see the tears on Tanya Pickle's face when she
thanked Dunn was truly an emotional experience.

Thanks are also owed to all of the volunteers, federal, city and local
governmental agencies, financial partners, corporate sponsors, and other NFL
players who support this great program.

Finally, special recognition is due to the efforts of all of the professionals
at St. Petersburg Neighborhood Housing Services Inc. Our organization is a
nonprofit neighborhood revitalization and community housing development
organization that was chartered in 1980. It was established to stimulate
reinvestment in urban neighborhoods by building a working partnership consisting
of neighborhood residents, local government, the business community, lending
institutions and national partners. The mission of SPNHS is to improve the
quality of life in our city through the development of affordable housing,
promotion of homeownership, the fostering of safe living conditions and
stimulation of economic development. In the past three years, we have helped
over 200 families become homeowners.

Warrick Dunn, through his efforts, embodies the true holiday spirit of selfless
giving back to his community. We thank him again for his efforts and the
privilege of being part of his legacy. As Erich Fromm once wrote, "In the sphere
of material things, giving means being rich. Not he who has much is rich, but he
who gives much." In a world driven by material possessions, he understands that
a gimmie-gimmie mentality, rather than enriching us, actually impoverishes us.
Tangible things enrich us only when we use them and share them to improve our
lives and the lives of others. We don't need to be football stars to share what
we have with others. It is the sharing that nourishes us and builds bridges
between us.

Mark S. Mandula, Volunteer Board of Directors, St. Petersburg Neighborhood
Housing Services Inc., St. Petersburg

No harm in stepping on toes

We moved here last year from Dayton, Ohio, and one of the things I have really
enjoyed is the outspoken attitude of this area. There is a lot of humor around,
and the comic page is full of it.

Our local paper publishes Boondocks, and this strip is a fine example of raw
humor. I may not agree with some of the slants taken, but when a comic strip can
consistently make me laugh, I call that humor.

I hope this paper will continue to be versatile. The "buckling under" that the
majority has to do nowadays to keep the minority happy has become a lifestyle
hazard. It seems everyone who gets their feelings hurt wants my world changed!
Every time someone's toes get stepped on a little, heaven has to open up . . .
but all I see is that my toes have been smashed flat.

Denise DeHart, Ocala

A new year's wish for oil independence

With the new year's arrival, it's time again to focus on our wishes for the
future. My fervent wish is for President Bush and the Congress to finally see
that changing America's dependency on foreign oil is essential.

It's a false choice we've been given by the Bush administration these past four
years - that drilling here in the United States is going to make us secure from
foreign oil regimes. Not true, since we only have 3 percent of the world's oil
reserves, and we use 25 percent of the world's supply.

Hopefully, our new U.S. senator, Mel Martinez, has figured this out, as did Sen.
Bob Graham, and will push for real solutions. To not do so is a threat, not only
to special regions like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, but also to our own
coasts.

Don't forget that it was House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas, who said last
year in a closed-door session of Republican leaders that an important argument
for opening the Arctic Refuge to oil development is to establish a precedent
whereby no public resource, no matter how pristine, would be off limits to
drilling.

Just a few weeks ago, Sen.-elect Martinez said, "Bringing people together is my
nature. I've spent my life building bridges, and I want to work in the next six
years as your senator representing all Floridians." As our senator, he is
responsible for protecting our interests and the country's interests. Let's all
ask him to take a leadership role in bringing people together in support of real
energy solutions.

Let's ask him to vote NO to any proposals to drill in the Artic Refuge or along
our coast and to vote YES to energy independence through development of new
non-fossil fuels and increased conservation.

Such a change in America's energy policy will not only protect ecologically
important places, it also will lead to sharply reduced oil revenues going to
autocratic regimes in the Middle East that use the money to fund terrorist
groups. It will reduce global warming and improve our relations with European
countries. It just makes sense in so many ways.

Sen. Martinez, please lead us to a better future!

And best wishes for the new year.

Charner Reese, Tampa

Democrats need a platform

Re: A problem for the Democratic Party, not its solution, by Joan Vennochi, Dec.
25.

Anyone but Hillary? Right idea but wrong reasons. The Democrats need someone
that can win.

No senator has won since Kennedy and he only won because Nixon lost the debates.
Hillary probably can't win because people don't seem to vote for senators and
representatives. This is a logical reason, not one based upon emotion.

In the '70s the Republicans evolved a platform tying many issues into a
compelling package that seemingly gave them the moral high ground. They have
essentially stuck to this platform with a few minor course corrections along the
way. If you ask a Republican politician a question about what they believe, they
come back immediately with that belief in a convincing manner.

Democrat politicians don't seem to be able to do that. Ask a Democrat a question
and you get a pause as if to say "I can't believe you have to ask that" and then
you get a few words that seem to lack conviction, as if discussing something
from history.

To this day Democrats are still a loose group of people following issues;
freedom of choicers, gay rights activists, civil rights activists and a few
unionists. What they don't have is a platform or a cohesive package that ties
Democratic issues together. If they can't look a young woman of 22 in the eye
and convince her that freedom of choice is her right whether she chooses to use
it or not, then the Democrats will continue to slide into oblivion.

Paul Wilson, Clearwater

No case against Hillary

Re: A problem for the Democratic Party, not its solution.

To quote Joan Vennochi of the Boston Globe: "The bumper stickers are correct. No
one died when Clinton lied. But something was extinguished: Respect for the
office, the man, his wife, and the truth."

If Vennochi really believes that statement, then nothing she says has merit.

Respect for the office and the man? President Clinton would have been re-elected
again if he could have been eligible to run.

Respect for his wife? What do her actions have to do with his? But she did stand
by him, "for better or worse."

Respect for the truth? She has to be kidding! President Bush makes Clinton look
like a piker.

Donald F. Kelly, St. Petersburg

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: YOUR LETTERS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, WILLIE J. ALLEN JR.; PHOTO, ASSOCIATED PRESS; Tanya Pickle cries
tears of joy in the dining room of her new home after pro football player
Warrick Dunn presented her with a $5,000 check for the down payment.; HILLARY IN
2008?: Hillary Rodham Clinton waves to a crowd.

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company


                              62 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 22, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

MISSOURIANS FOCUS ON HEALTH INSURANCE PROBLEMS; SPEAKERS AT HEARING TELL OF
GAPS, COSTS

BYLINE: Martha Shirk Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 828 words


For seven years, John Bromell of south St. Louis County was among the millions
of Americans who lack health insurance.

Bromell was repeatedly denied insurance because of a pre-existing condition -
symptoms eventually diagnosed as multiple sclerosis. An attack of appendicitis
or an injury-producing car accident would have plunged his family into debt.
Finally, a month ago, Bromell obtained insurance through his wife's job.

"If the insurance companies won't cover you, and the government doesn't cover
you, what are your options?" Bromell said. "There are none. We need a law that
makes it illegal for insurance companies to deny coverage because of a
pre-existing condition." Bromell has formed a nonprofit organization - Americans
for Health Care Access - to push for such a law.

Bromell was one of a dozen Missourians who offered testimony about insurance
problems Saturday at a meeting at the Ethical Society. It was sponsored by the
Ethical Society and the Missouri chapter of Physicians for a National Health
Plan, which supports a single-payer health care system. A panel of physicians
and two Republican legislators, Sen. Betty Sims of Ladue and Rep. Jim Murphy of
Crestwood, listened intently and promised to work for change.

"You've got two conservative Republicans sitting up here who basically share
your concerns," Murphy said. "Under no circumstances can I ever feel health care
is anything but a basic human right."

Among the problems described:

Andy Ayers, owner of Riddle's Restaurant in University City, told of his
frustration in trying to provide his 10 full-time employees with health
insurance.

In September 1989, Ayers bought a group policy for $ 730 a month. Over the next
two years, three employees, including Ayers' wife, filed claims. All were
denied. The insurer said two of the claims resulted from pre-existing
conditions; it not only denied them, but dropped the claimants from the group.
The company thought the third claim, for a hernia operation on Ayers' wife,
should be covered by workers' compensation.

"It finally dawned on me that my insurance company was engaging in a policy of
ducking every claim submitted," Ayers said.

Ayers eventually persuaded the insurer to cover his wife's claim, but by then
his monthly premium had risen to $ 1,012, for eight employees. He felt he could
no longer afford the insurance.

He found a policy to cover his family for $ 401 a month. By April 1994, the
monthly cost had risen to $ 477. Ayers was late with a premium, and his coverage
was canceled. Then Ayers was diagnosed with diabetes.

"I'm in the same position as many other small business owners with regard to
health insurance," he said. "I don't have any."

Ann Rothery of Webster Groves worries about all the things every mother worries
about - her son's grades, his social life, his future plans. But because her
19-year-old son, Sean, was diagnosed as a baby with osteogenesis imperfecta, a
serious bone disease, she also has to worry whether he'll be able to get health
insurance once he's too old for coverage under the family's policy.

"No one seems to be able to tell us our options," she said.

LaFaun Hoggard and his father have operated Hoggard's Car Place for 15 years.
Hoggard's experience with a local preferred provider organization jeopardized
his credit rating, landed him in court and convinced him that a national health
insurance system was needed.

The ordeal began when Hoggard sought treatment in an emergency room after he was
mugged. The hospital billed the insurance company, and the insurance company
told Hoggard that it had paid.

Still, the hospital sent Hoggard bills. A collection company began harassing
him. The hospital bill was listed as a bad debt on his credit report. The
hospital sued him. Just before his second appearance in court, the insurance
company admitted it had never paid the bill.

In 1989, Paula Klearman of Chesterfield had an angioplasty. Her husband's
employer-provided insurance paid for it.

But a few years later, as her husband was getting ready to retire, Klearman
found out that her angioplasty had made it impossible for her to obtain
insurance from the private sector. She eventually got coverage through the
Missouri High-Risk Pool. But the cost for her and her husband is high - $ 800 a
month, with no coverage for drugs. The couple would pay $ 416 less a month if
Klearman wasn't being penalized for her pre-existing condition.

Dr. Arthur Gale, former president of the St. Louis Metropolitan Medical Society,
said the testimony Saturday provided ample evidence that the market approach to
health care wasn't working. He described the system as "social Darwinism."

(THE FOLLOWING TEXT APPEARED IN THE THREE STAR EDITION ONLY)

But Gale held out little hope for major change. "There are going to have to be a
lot of people who die, a lot of people who get bad care, before people realize
this is not the way to go," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              63 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday

Separate and unequal

BYLINE: By RICHARD DAVIS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 743 words


"Every person has the right to adequate health care. This right flows from the
sanctity of human life and the dignity that belongs to all persons, who are made
in the image of God. Our call for health care reform is rooted in the biblical
call to heal the sick and to serve 'the least of these,' the priorities of
justice and the principle of the common good. The existing patterns of health
care in the United States do no meet the minimal standard of social justice and
the common good."

This resolution on health care reform was presented by U.S. Catholic Bishops in
1993.

Sadly, the concluding sentence from this 1993 statement is just as accurate in
2007. In fact, the existing patterns of lack of access to basic health care in
the U.S., the number of uninsured, the racial and ethnic disparities among
Americans when it comes to health care and the outright discrimination of people
and their access to health care based on their socio-economic status has only
worsened with time.

Faith communities understand the human tragedy of the U.S. health care
non-system. Faith leaders have made statements describing their outrage and some
activist groups have recognized that the outrage of faith communities must be
harnessed into political action in order for change to happen.

That is why many health care activists believe that it is critical for
communities of faith to provide the moral and ethical authority for the movement
to create substantive and lasting health care reform. We are a nation of people
who claim to believe in moral and ethical equality, but we have not put our
money where our mouth is when it comes to health care and many other social
disgraces.

We have abolished slavery, given women the right to vote and we have made a
basic level of education a public good. We have even established a system of
Social Security and created some health care safety nets such as Medicare and
Medicaid. But social progress, progress for the common good, lost its sense of
urgency and its priority in the life of America around 1965. It was then that
one might point to the beginning of the age of greed and social Darwinism in a
country that, in earlier decades, measured the progress of the great experiment
in democracy by how well it treated immigrants.

Those are some of the bigger issues, but they aren't compelling enough unless
they are personalized. There are enough stories right here in Windham County to
stir up some degree of moral outrage in most of us.

Consider the case of uninsured middle-aged professionals, people who choose to
live here because of the quality of life. High salaries are not a priority for
these people. They contribute to our community and pay their taxes, but when it
comes to family priorities they go without health insurance so their children
can go to college or have the things they need to lay the foundation for a good
life.

These people may not have to choose between food and rent, but they do find
themselves in the position of having to gamble with their own health because
health insurance is just too expensive.

Then there are those who are discriminated against because they are in the lower
income brackets of society. One might tend to become complacent or even envious
of the poorest of the poor who receive Medicaid benefits. They have what most
would consider decent health insurance at a cost that is affordable to most of
them.

Medicaid beneficiaries are subject to some of the most insidious forms of
discrimination our society engages in. On the political level, when budgets are
tight they may lose some of the benefits that assured a basic level of health
for them and their families. Their political importance is seldom a factor in
the political process.

At the provider level, many doctors establish quotas of how many Medicaid
patients they will care for. It is a purely financial decision because Medicaid
reimbursement rates are so low. They know that if the percentage of Medicaid
patients in their practice goes above a certain level they will go out of
business.

The only fix for this is political and there is some hope on the horizon, but
for the time being it remains a difficult task to find a primary care doctor if
your are labeled "Medicaid." The situation for dental care is even worse.

Next week, some stories from the health care wars in Windham County.

Richard Davis is a registered nurse and executive director of Vermont Citizens
Campaign for Health; he writes from Guilford.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 14, 1991, Thursday
                              Correction Appended

Leading doctor urges legalising euthanasia

BYLINE: By JUDY JONES, Social Services Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 5

LENGTH: 462 words


EUTHANASIA should be legalised to enable chronically sick old people to die with
dignity, a past president of the Royal College of Physicians suggested
yesterday.

The rationing of health care in coming decades was ''inescapable'', but the
explicit denial of services to elderly people was unlikely to be acceptable, Sir
Raymond Hoffenberg told a conference in London.

Euthanasia, which is responsible for 2 per cent of deaths in the Netherlands,
could be the right alternative to sustaining poor quality life for frail,
elderly people, provided it served the best interests of patient and close
family.

''If this practice were to be introduced as a means of of reducing financial
strain, I would find it quite unacceptable. But many old people do not wish to
be a burden to their family and to society. Having led a full life, they wish to
die in peace.''

Sir Raymond, President of Wolfson College, Oxford, was addressing a conference
of health care policy-makers and administrators on the impact of projected
demographic changes on health care and the NHS.

The Office of Population Censuses and Surveys estimates that the proportion of
people aged 65 and over will rise from just under 30 per cent this year to more
than 40 per cent by 2041. The total dependent population, including children, is
expected to rise from 62 per cent to 75 per cent over the same period.

Rabbi Julia Neuberger, former chairman of the UK Patients' Association and now a
visiting fellow at Harvard Medical School, foresaw a sharp rise in the number of
people in their fifties, mainly women, caring for elderly dependent relatives.

Britain had barely begun to address the future funding and organisation of
services for the elderly, and the right balance to be struck between state and
family responsibilities for their care.

Rabbi Neuberger described as ''terrifying'' the growing interest in euthanasia
in America, where people had to pay for their long- term care. ''We could be
going that way. There are some signs of it. The lack of long-stay care for the
elderly within the NHS is one, but a more profound one is the general lack of
valuing of the old.''

Baroness Cumberlege, chairman of South West Thames Regional Health Authority,
predicted the early years of the next century would see a marked shift away from
treating patients in hospitals towards cheaper and more effective home care.

Although 58 per cent of people would prefer to die at home, according to a
recent opinion poll, about three-quarters of deaths occurred in hospitals.

''We have too many hospitals, too many staff employed in them and a very unclear
idea about what a hospital is meant to do . . . We must not be paralysed by
political fear about changes in the way services are delivered.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 7, 1991, Saturday



CORRECTION: In a report, dated 14 November 1991, of Sir Raymond Hoffenberg's
speech to a conference of health care policy-makers and administrators, we
incorrectly stated that Sir Raymond had urged the legalising of euthanasia. We
accept that he does not believe that legislation is apt for resolving difficult
ethical decisions. He reported at the conference on the practice in the
Netherlands and US, but he did so simply to open for public debate on the
difficult ethical questions posed by euthanasia. We apologise to Sir Raymond for
the error.
Sir Raymond Hoffenberg

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


                              65 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 25, 1999, Monday, THREE STAR EDITION

SURVEY FINDS MANY DOCTORS WOULD LIE TO GET INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR PATIENTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Many physicians approve of deceiving insurance companies or health maintenance
organizations to secure payment for treatment if patients cannot get it any
other way, a survey found.

The survey of 169 internists in eight cities found that 58 percent c onsidered
it ethical to lie for a patient who needed a heart bypass operation, and 48
percent considered it ethical to lie to get intravenous pain medication and
nutrition for a dying cancer patient.

The percentages were lower for less serious conditions, researchers said in
today's issue of the American Medical Association's Archives of Internal
Medicine.

None of the doctors was asked if he or she had ever actually lied or would lie -
only whether it would be justified for a physician to do so.

The mailed survey posed hypothetical treatment situations. In one, a 55-year-old
woman who has never had a mammogram seeks the test after her sister dies of
breast cancer. Almost 35 percent of the doctors said it was OK to say a
suspicious breast lump existed when it didn't to get coverage.

In the heart bypass example, a woman suffering angina who needs the procedure is
forced to change insurance companies. The new company says it won't cover the
pre-existing condition unless it becomes more serious. A majority of doctors
said they would lie and report that her chest pains increased in frequency to
have the surgery covered.

Just under 3 percent said they would tell an insurance company that a
55-year-old woman who wanted a cosmetic nose job needed the procedure for a
medical reason, such as difficulty breathing, the poll found.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              66 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            December 27, 1999 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Scanning for the truth;
EDITORIAL OPINION

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 460 words


IT IS almost as if the Australian community has been gripped by an ethical
malaise. In business, broadcasting and now the professions, Australia has been
rocked in recent months by multiple examples of people apparently losing their
footing on the moral ground that differentiates right from wrong.

Doctors as a profession generally enjoy the respect and admiration of the public
in a way which other professions do not. Much of this attitude is rooted in the
trust implicit in the doctor-patient relationship which most people maintain at
a personal level. Whether such trust is deserved or not is perhaps moot, for
what distinguishes doctors from other members of the community is not
necessarily their profession. Many people forget that the practice of medicine
in Australia beyond the major hospitals is essentially about running small to
medium sized businesses. Doctors, as well as being health care professionals,
must also be successful in business in order to survive.

The news that hundreds of Australian radiologists may face prosecution,
deregistration and possibly even imprisonment in the shadow of a Health
Insurance Commission report into a Medicare rort involving magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) machines may surprise some people. The scandal, which could
involve up to one-quarter of the nation's radiologists, flows squarely from the
business side of doctoring. It centres on allegations that 52 orders placed for
the machines before the 1998 federal Budget, which extended the Medicare rebate
to the devices. The implication is that there was a leak of this information and
that those involved acted upon this. The investigation has also pointed to the
backdating of contracts. Only seven of the 52 orders involved were found to be
beyond reproach. The sums involved here are substantial. MRI machines cost $2
million apiece. The fees garnered through their use are significant. If proven,
the allegations will amount to a major fraud on the Australian public by a
self-regulating professional group which prides itself on maintaining ethical
standards of the highest order. Acting on the basis of information obtained
might at the time have been seen as smart business practice, but it could never
have been seen as ethical. The pallid justification by the president of the
Victorian branch of the AMA that the increased use of MRI machines is "great for
patients" insults the public's intelligence. Of interest must be the way in
which the information was obtained. The Federal Health Minister, Dr Michael
Wooldridge, has dismissed the suggestion that there had been a Budget leak. On
the basis of the HIC report it seems absurd to suggest there was no leak. If one
is eventually proved, the demands of ministerial responsibility should apply.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            April 30, 2014 Wednesday
                                National Edition

Quebec pays for gay couple's surrogate; against policy

BYLINE: Graeme Hamilton, National Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: Montreal


Radio host Joël Legendre exuberantly announced the pending birth of twin girls
last week, sounding like any expectant father.

"I am excited right now," he wrote to his Facebook fans. "I have a secret to
tell you."

But because Mr. Legendre is gay, the conception of the twins due in July was
anything but straightforward.

It is thanks to "exceptional technological advances" and the "extraordinary
woman who decided to welcome two tiny embryos inside her" that he and his
partner can fulfill their dream of parenthood, he wrote.

His subsequent boast that he had persuaded Quebec's health insurance board to
cover the roughly $ 5,000 cost of the medical procedure - in a province where
the law discourages surrogate motherhood - has transformed his joyous
announcement into a controversy over whether Quebec's publicly funded IVF
program has gone too far.

Université de Montréal law professor Alain Roy, a family law expert, said
Quebec's health insurance board was "completely premature" in agreeing to cover
the procedure for Mr. Legendre and his partner of four years, Junior Bombardier.

That is because the province's Civil Code explicitly discourages surrogacy,
stating "any agreement whereby a woman undertakes to procreate or carry a child
for another person is absolutely null." The law means a surrogate remains the
legal mother of a child she carries, but some judges have interpreted it
liberally to allow a non-biological parent to legally adopt a child born of a
surrogate.

New Liberal Health Minister Gaétan Barrette said Quebec's IVF program needs
clearer parameters, and he is awaiting a report due next month before acting. In
his previous role as head of the federation of medical specialists, Dr. Barrette
criticized the program as "an open bar." Demand has been far greater than
expected, and the $ 60-million annual cost is twice what was forecast when
Quebec became the first province to fully fund IVF in 2010.

Mr. Roy said the article of the Civil Code dealing with surrogacy, introduced in
1994, is there because of ethical concerns, and it is not the health insurance
board's role to rewrite policy.

Mr. Legendre told listeners of his radio show that he considered it
discriminatory that a lesbian couple could have IVF treatment covered by the
province while two gay men could not. But Mr. Roy, chairman of a provincial
committee mandated to propose changes to Quebec family law, said the two
situations are not comparable. "I don't think we can compare a surrogate mother
to a sperm donor," he said.

"The third party who is a sperm donor, his contribution is 10 seconds. The
surrogate mother's contribution is nine months and it raises fundamental ethical
questions about the exploitation of women's bodies, about possible
commodification of children, about the right of a child to know his origins."

He said these questions warrant serious public debate, and should not be decided
by bureaucrats interpre ting health-insurance regulations. "Technically it may
be discrimination, but when you look in depth, you say, wait, maybe there is a
reason for this discrimination," he said.

Mr. Legendre appeared Sunday on the Radio-Canada talk show Tout le monde en
parle, where he was applauded as he discussed the pending birth of his twins. He
said he had initially sought to adopt, but it has become very hard for gay
couples to adopt internationally.

A friend of Mr. Bombardier offered to be a surrogate mother, with eggs purchased
from a U. S. company. (Canadian law prohibits the sale of human eggs.) "Once we
have made our payment, they send us a virtual catalogue, and there are about 200
mothers in it with pedigrees, personal stories, why they want to give eggs," he
explained. "We were uncomfortable, as if we were choosing our child like you
would choose a car."

They made their selection, and the frozen eggs were shipped to Montreal, where
the fertilization was performed in a private clinic.

After the twins are born, the couple and the surrogate mother will go before a
judge to formalize an adoption, declaring the two men co-fathers. Mr. Legendre
said he believes gay men have a right to be parents. "Being gay is not a
choice," he said on Tout le monde en parle. "You do not choose not to be a
parent. My feeling is that everyone has the right."

ghamilton@nationalpost. com Twitter. com/grayhamilton

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Canal Vie, The Canadian Press; Joël Legendre thanked the "
extraordinary woman who decided to welcome two tiny embryos inside her" so that
he and his partner can fulfill their dream of parenthood.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

Curing the ills in US healthcare

SECTION: HEALTH; Your Health; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1364 words


Dr Ezekiel Emanuel was the man Barack Obama called upon to push through his
controversial health reform package, writes  JOANNE HUNT

A ONCE in a century achievement    that s how Dr Ezekiel Emanuel describes the
changes happening to the US health system right now.

With health reform central to Barack Obama s  Yes we can  manifesto, once in
office it was to fellow-Chicagoan Emanuel, an oncologist and medical ethicist,
that the US President turned to help make his hustings pledge a reality.

Older brother to former White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel and Hollywood
agent Ari, said to have inspired the West Wing character John Lyman and
Entourage s Ari Gold respectively, Ezekiel is the only sibling not yet to have
inspired a television character. Though, if his US health reforms succeed, the
mantle of superhero might just fit.

The ills of the US health system were legion. According to Emanuel, despite
spending $2.53 trillion (EUR 1.64 trillion) on health annually   that s twice
the OECD average and the equivalent of the entire GDP of France   US citizens
were less healthy than those of comparable nations. In fact, when compared with
29 developed countries, an American male aged 65 ranks 12th for life expectancy,
while an American woman ranks 16th.

A traditional reliance on employer-paid health insurance means there has always
been a swathe of US citizens who fell outside the system. This meant that
millions of people, unable to afford their own cover and not poor enough to
qualify for government-provided care, simply went without medical treatment.

The pattern of massive spending for less than stellar results was set to
continue.  By 2080, if we did nothing, one out of two dollars would be spent on
health,  says Emanuel.

Doing nothing was not an option. The Oval Office assembled a team, including
Emanuel, to lead the charge on reform.

For the graduate of Amherst College, Oxford University and Harvard Medical
School, politics and ethics are not the oil and water one might expect.

Health policy raises lots of ethical questions,  says Emanuel, in Dublin
recently to address the Amnesty International Ireland annual conference.

One of the questions is equity, and what does equity mean in healthcare   what s
an appropriate doctor-patient relationship, what are people entitled to, what
aren t they entitled to.

Inevitably health policy raises ethical issues. I had been working very
intensively on these issues, so I wasn t plucked out for no reason,  he jokes.

Temporarily leaving his bioethics post at the National Institutes of Health to
become White House special adviser on health policy, Emanuel helped shape a
health reform bill signed into law last year that will see the largest expansion
of healthcare provision in the US in decades, guaranteeing access to medical
insurance for an extra 32 million people by 2019.

So how will it work in practice, and can Ireland, poised for its own health
reform, learn from what s happening stateside?

Now everyone in the United States is going to have a mandate to get healthcare,
says Emanuel, a premise that our own new government also favours.  The heart and
soul of the legislation is really to continue the employer-based system
whereby most people get their coverage through their work   and then to provide
subsidies to small businesses and families to help them afford insurance
premiums.

Medicaid, the government insurance scheme, will also expand to include those
within a greater range of the poverty line and  exchanges  or marketplaces will
be set up, enabling citizens to compare the coverage of rival insurance
providers.

But with reforms bringing an extra 30 million citizens into the system, who is
going to pay?

The funding for reform comes from many sources, the primary of which are not
increases in taxes but savings from within the system,  says Emanuel.

In fact, savings of more than $30 billion (EUR 21 billion) have already been
earmarked from using generic drugs, simplified administration, cheaper X-rays
and insurance fraud enforcement alone, he says.

More co-ordination among medical professionals to provide better patient
outcomes is being demanded too. Targets to reduce hospital-acquired infections
and hospital falls, a goal to bring hospital 30-day readmissions down by 20 per
cent and bundled payments to doctors to provide a more holistic and accountable
approach to care are all part of the mix.

Insurance companies will have to play by new rules too. The changes mean that
customers can t be excluded based on pre-existing conditions, no limits are
being put on how much a patient can claim in a lifetime and children are allowed
to stay on their parents  policies until aged 26.

Emanuel says the government s target is  the sweet spot of higher quality at
lower cost . Instead of viewing healthcare as a financial black hole, he views
its reform a gift horse.

One thing that s very important is that there s no deficit financing for this
healthcare reform,  he says.

All of our estimates show that by the end of the decade   that s by 2019
healthcare reform should reduce the deficit by over $100 billion [EUR 70
billion] and by the end of the next decade by almost a trillion dollars.

For Emanuel, the uneven distribution of cost in the US health system brings the
clearest quality and cost opportunities.  Ten per cent of the population [pays
for] 64 per cent of all healthcare costs,  he notes.

It is these people with chronic illnesses for whom an improvement in quality of
care can bring disproportionate cost savings.  Focus on that 10 per cent: that s
where the money is,  says Emanuel.

He says  unnecessary services  to those with chronic conditions are leading to
waste and cites a study showing that across six chronic conditions   including
heart failure, diabetes and hypertension   potentially avoidable complications
account for 40 cent of every dollar spent.

With hospital-related expenses accounting for one-third of health spending, it s
no surprise that primary care will receive greater emphasis. Possible approaches
to improving quality and reducing costs include the establishment of medical
homes and accountable care organisations.

Reforms include the provision of dedicated non-physician care co-ordinators
assigned to oversee groups of patients with chronic conditions, access to 24/7
primary care to keep patients out of the emergency room, IT investment to
facilitate patient tracking and physicians being paid for performance.

Such a return to face-to-face connections between patients and care-givers, with
nurse practitioners replacing doctors for routine tasks such as wound care,
weight or medication checks, will not only reduce cost but improve outcomes.

As well as grants to doctors to upgrade their IT systems, a $600 million
investment in comparative effectiveness research will enable the collection and
analysis of data on the effectiveness of certain treatments or drugs   the
results of which can benefit all countries.

Emanuel returned to his bioethics post in January, having completed his White
House stint, though not without some battle scars.

Right-wing pundits and the New York Post dubbed him a  deadly doctor ,
construing his proposed reforms to chronic illness care to mean worse care for
the most sick.

Emanuel is philosophical about the attack.  Some [people try] to use healthcare
reform for political advantage rather than for the good of the country . . . you
know politics can be a very nasty contact sport, so you just have to have thick
skin and not get absorbed in the trivialities and untruths,  he says.

With billions of dollars at stake and many vested interests, of course things
were bound to get nasty.

One in every six dollars goes on healthcare in the US, in Europe it s closer to
one in 10. That means there are a lot of people who have an interest in the
healthcare system and any change is going to upset business as usual.

Quoting Stanford health economist and fellow pro-reformer Victor Fuchs, he says,
If you re not really making people upset with healthcare reform, you re not
really doing reform.

Dr James Reilly, take note.

Dr Emanuel was in Dublin to address the Amnesty International Ireland annual
conference

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 12 1987, Sunday

Personal Finance (Savings News): If conscience be your guide

SECTION: Issue 8488.

LENGTH: 272 words


ETHICAL investment is popular in America, but has been slow to catch on here. A
new unit trust group, Medical Investments, feels the idea will become
increasingly popular and is launching The Health Fund specializing in the
international health sector. The trust will invest in companies making 'a major
contribution to health care' in areas such as drugs, improved equipment and
possibly medical insurance. It has a panel of medical experts, and hopes to
appeal on the grounds of providing an opportunity which is both profitable to
investors and beneficial to society. Minimum investment is pounds 500 and
charges are 5 1/4% initial and 1 1/4% annaul.

SAVE & PROSPER's Peps sparkled in February and March, according to the managers.
Investors who got in at the start will have seen the first block of shares
bought on their account rise by 12%. So, despite initial charges they are
already making money. Barclays, too, has some cherry news for its Pep savers:
some of its single share recommendations have risen by over 30% including
Courtaulds (35%) and British & Commonwealth (32%). Woolwich Building Society
will next month lanch its own Peps in conjunction with Hill Samuel. The scheme
will be available from May 5, and minimum investment is pounds 20 a month.


TWO unit trust groups - Target and Gartmore - have their eyes of gold. Brian
O'Neill, fund manager of Gartmore's Gold Trust, believes the metal 'will gain
strength, not only against the weak US dollar but across the board'. Target is
similarly bullish: investment director Dylan Evans points out that 'gold, in yen
terms, is at a six year low'.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited


                              70 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                         March 12, 2000, Sunday, FINAL

GAP is Villain of the Moment: Greens and tree-huggers target clothing chain

BYLINE: Susannah Herbert, The Telegraph

SECTION: Insight; A8

LENGTH: 1217 words

DATELINE: LONDON


The international protest brigade has a new all-purpose, one-size-fits- all
villain -- currently accused of robbing us of our identities, exploiting Third
World labour, torturing animals, destroying Californian forests and violating
the charms of Paris.

It also sells great stripey scarves.

The Gap clothing chain -- supplier of T-shirts and cargo pants to the world's
casually dressed go-getters and their children -- may seem an improbable
candidate for a global ''baddie of the year'' award.

Customers at Gap Inc. 's 3,000 shops worldwide -- which include the brands
Banana Republic and Old Navy -- reckon they get good value for money. The
clothes have that agreeable classless classic look, don't shrink, run or cause
cancer and the company is unlikely to destroy the planet with clouds of
poisonous gas or nuclear explosions.

Its San Francisco headquarters features a roof planted with native grasses for
eco-friendly insulation and offers baby-friendly quiet rooms for nursing mothers
and health insurance to the partners of its gay staff. By most standards, Gap
Inc. would seem to be a model progressive corporation.

Yet Gap's neat blue and white logo and innocuously cheery posters -- happy
smiling people urging ''Everyone Into Cords! Everyone Into Khakis!'' -- have
recently become the target of an astonishingly broad alliance of agitators, who
get more agitated every day.

The khaki-and-denim- wearing classes worldwide first woke up to Gap's growing
pariah status last November when their televisions showed demonstrators in
Seattle for the World Trade Organization talks setting fire to a pair of Gap
cotton trousers outside a Gap store.

Their posters suggested this was no ordinary customer complaint about crooked
seams. ''GAP Greedy Awful Practices.'' ''Gap equals Crap.'' ''Gap just can't get
enough . . . money'' sang the protesters, to the tune of the song used on Gap's
ad campaign.

The ''pants-on-fire'' incident wasn't the first time Gap shops had been targeted
for direct action, but it marked a violent acceleration in anti-Gap campaigning.

Gap Inc. -- and 17 other prominent clothing retailers -- was accused of
operating ''a racketeering conspiracy'' in the federal court in January 1998 by
a coalition of U.S. garment unions and the advocacy group Global Exchange.

They alleged that the companies were violating human rights legislation by
importing stock from sweatshops in the U.S. dependent territory of Saipan, one
of the Mariana Islands in Southeast Asia.

Unsurprisingly, the unions prefer to play up the human-rights angle, although
their suit seems to owe as much to protectionist fear of competition as to
altruism. Unlike goods from other countries, imports from U.S. territories like
Saipan do not have to pay tariffs, and their cheap labour costs make them a
serious threat to the mainland U.S. garment industry.

The case is not over, for although several of the retailers have cut a deal with
their tormentors, Gap denies the allegations, claiming that its Vendor Code of
Conduct obliges all its contractors to ''treat all workers with respect and
dignity and provide them with a safe and healthy environment.''

It has circulated a formal statement on the case, but has refused further
comment.

This silence has prompted its critics to redouble the pressure and find new
allies. They haven't had far to look: as Global Exchange boasts, groups who are
only too pleased to jump on the anti- Gap bandwagon include the San Francisco
Living Wage Coalition, Save the Redwoods/Boycott the Gap Campaign and something
called Wetlands Preserve. In addition, more than 100 labour, religious and human
rights groups have endorsed the cause.

The environmentalists of San Francisco have been particularly enthusiastic: they
have had Gap Inc. in their sights for two years, since the company's founding
dynasty, the Fisher family, bought 350 square miles of timberlands in Mendocino
County, the heart of Giant Redwood country, just north of San Francisco. The
area is being used for sustainable logging.

If the Fishers ever imagined that trees would be a better long- term investment
than the global retail trade, they were soon corrected by the green lobby,
outraged when the new owners refused to set aside any redwood lands for
conservation.

Since then the tree-huggers have launched an all- out war, with Gap's
communications staff insisting in vain that the Mendocino Redwood Company has no
affiliation with Gap Inc. and is funded through a private investment firm.

The greens and the no-sweat-shoppers now present a formidable joint anti-Gap
force, whether linking up their internet sites, briefing schoolchildren or
staking out the home of Donald Fisher, Gap chairman. (The refrain: ''Hey, Mr.
Fisher, you've got a store, what do you want the redwoods for?'')

These days, scarcely a week goes by without reports of new Gap attacks in North
America. The first Saturday of every month has been designated Anti-Gap Day of
Action, and shoppers in California, Boston and New York and Toronto risk running
a gauntlet of petitioners whenever they buy a sweatshirt.

The campaigners are inventive, both at dressing up and dressing down. There have
been anti-Gap strippers crying they'd rather go naked than wear the brand, and
Christmas saw anti-Gap Santas -- who were eventually bundled into police vans
after educating their onlookers on Gap's alleged crimes.

A national campaign is now under way to persuade students and schoolchildren to
cut the labels from their Gap clothes and send them to the Fishers together with
centrally drafted letters of complaint, downloaded from the internet.

The bulletin board of the Web site www.gapsucks.org is a cacophony of
accusation. The occasional Gap employee who posts a notice saying the chain is a
pretty cool place to work and pays well becomes a target of instant abuse. The
student who points out that Gap's labour sourcing is no worse than that of any
other medium-priced retailer is accused of conniving in global oppression.

Olya Milenkaya, who runs an environmentalist group at Palo Alto high school,
says her classmates' choice of clothes is causing her mental anguish. She told
the local newspaper The Town Crier: ''It becomes very disturbing, learning about
the exploitation of workers and the clearcutting of trees, and then walking down
the hall to class and seeing 30 Gap sweatshirts, one after the other.''

Recently, Chrissie Hynde, the singer and animal rights activist, denounced the
company for using Indian leather, thereby encouraging the cruelty to cows
allegedly committed by the Indian leather industry.

In France, where few people seem to care about redwoods, Indian cows or labour
conditions on the Mariana Islands, anti-Gappers appeal to deep-seated sentiment
instead. One conservation group in Paris has just accused the company of
''contributing to the erosion of the romantic and intellectual character of the
Rive Gauche.''

Gap Inc. claims to be unscarred by the vilification campaign. In the past year,
it has opened an extra 500 shops, and saw net sales rise from $9 billion to
$11.6 billion. Profits are up by a third.

Our classless, casual-dressing modern society may cherish its conscience, but it
needs its uniform more.


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: P Photo: Herald News Services / Chrissie Hynde of The Pretenders speaks
out for PETA (People for The Ethical Treatment of Animals) outside a Gap store
in Vancouver.; Photo: The Gap clothing chain, supplier of T-shirts and cargo
pants to the world's casually dressed go-getters and their children, is under
attack from activists.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 18, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

How Cairo Conference Echoed Health Debate;
Question of Conscience

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 16;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 254 words


To the Editor:

Since the 1930's the United States Government has made several attempts to
improve health care without much success. Whereas the United States became the
leading country in biomedical research and clinical progress after World War II,
it failed consistently to provide satisfactory access to health care for growing
parts of its own population.


Indeed, there is an increasing gap between medical progress and equality of
access to these medical achievements. From this perspective, the main problem of
the United States health care system is social-ethical rather than biotechnical.

But the social-ethical question is not even discussed in the debate. Financial
and technical problems of the Clinton health plan dominate public concerns. And
because those problems are difficult, people become afraid of a major reform.

Without this, hopes of major health care legislation will remain unrealized, and
the United States will continue to have the highest rate of uninsured people in
the West.

No social progress has been achieved without moral strength and social
commitment. Do you want to make a commitment to the problem that many people do
not have sufficient access to health care? Then talk about "our" health plan
rather than "their" income and their outcome.
JOCHEN VOLLMANN, M.D.
Washington, Sept. 12, 1994
The writer, a professor at the University of Freiburg Medical School in Germany,
is a visiting research fellow at the Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Georgetown
University.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            March 17, 2011 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

Jobless rates lower than a year ago

BYLINE: State Journal staff, wire services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 509 words


Unemployment rose throughout Wisconsin in January compared with December, as
holiday jobs ended for the season. But jobless rates were considerably lower
than in January 2010, according to preliminary data from the state Department of
Workforce Development.

Unemployment in Madison was 4.9 percent in January, up from 4.4 percent in
December but lower than the 6.1 percent jobless rate in January 2010, according
to Wednesday's report.

Madison had the lowest unemployment rate of 31 Wisconsin cities, while Racine
had the highest, at 14 percent, down from 17 percent a year earlier. Beloit's
jobless rate was second highest at 13.8 percent, but that was a substantial drop
from 18.9 percent in January 2010.

Among Wisconsin counties, Dane County had the lowest unemployment rate, at 5.3
percent. Door County's rate was highest in the state, at 13.3 percent.

Wholesale food prices shoot higher

Wholesale food prices rose 3.9 percent in February, the most since November
1974, the Labor Department said Wednesday. Most of the increase was due to harsh
winter freezes in southern states that damaged crops.

Overall, the producer price index, which tracks price changes before they reach
the consumer, rose 1.6 percent in February, the Labor Department said. That's
double the increase of the previous month and the biggest hike since June 2009.
The index is adjusted to account for seasonal variations.

Costlier food means people have less money for the casual spending that helps
the economy grow and create jobs. And it adds to growing concern about inflation
down the road.

WPS listed among most ethical firms

WPS Health Insurance of Madison was the only health insurance company to be
named one of the World's Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute of
New York.

Overall, there were 110 honorees in various categories. Other Wisconsin
companies on the list included Wisconsin Energy (energy and utilities), Manpower
(staffing) and Johnson Controls (automotive).

Neil Holland named CEO of Isomark

Neil Holland was named chief executive officer of Isomark. The Madison company,
based on UW-Madison research, is developing technology to identify the early
onset of bacterial infections by having patients breathe into a portable device.

Holland most recently was president of Medical Product Consulting, and served as
a vice president of Hospira.

BRIEFLY

COMMODITIES: April gold rose $3.30 Wednesday to settle at $1,396.10 an ounce.
May silver added 35.5 cents to settle at $34.472 an ounce. Copper rose 6.2 cents
Wednesday to settle at $4.1870 a pound. In May contracts, wheat fell 5.75 cents
to $6.62 a bushel, corn dropped 19.5 cents to $6.165 a bushel and soybeans added
17 cents to $12.87 a bushel.

SMALL BUSINESS: UW Extension's Wisconsin Small Business Development Center
Network helped 260 entrepreneurs develop business plans, aided in the start of
159 businesses, and held training sessions for 8,800 current and potential
business owners in 2010. The group's annual report also says the network helped
clients get more than $8 million in federal funds.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Competition, not rationing, is cure

BYLINE: Newt Gingrich; For the AJC

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1007 words


When Sarah Palin said that the emerging health care reform legislation would
lead to "death panels" and government rationing of care, her language was
explosive, but her premise about rationing was not.

The critical test of any reform proposal is whether it will empower individuals
or impose on them. It is a fact that the leading bills in Congress would
increase the power of government and decrease individual freedom. You cannot
spend an additional $1 trillion of taxpayer money and reduce the role of
government. You will get new bureaucracies, more regulation, more complexity.
That means you will have less control of your health care.

Disagree? Just read the versions of health care legislation in the House. One
key proposal is to mandate an "essential benefit package" for every private
insurance policy sold in the United States. Currently, individuals and employers
usually make these coverage decisions.

This legislation creates a new federal Health Benefits Advisory Committee that
would decide instead. For example, if you are a single male with no children,
the legislation still requires you to have maternity benefits and well-baby and
well-child care coverage. You don't want or don't need that coverage? Sorry, you
have to pay for it anyway.

Other planned agencies would give the federal government unprecedented and
unaccountable control. The so-called Health Choices Administration and the
National Health Insurance Exchange would set various standards for all health
insurance policies.

The president is also pushing for another new agency called the Independent
Medicare Advisory Council. Described as a cost-control initiative, it would be
made up of five government appointees who would, by determining Medicare
reimbursement amounts, essentially decide what would be covered and what
wouldn't.

The fear of government rationing is based on the premise that once government
has such power, especially the ability to control what is covered by your
private insurance policy, it also has the power to deny and restrict.

People defending the House bill claim rationing is not in any of its versions,
and although that is technically true --- no one wants rationing --- the
unprecedented power this bill would grant to virtually unaccountable government
agencies is all but certain to lead to rationing.

Consider Medicare, which is projected to go broke within the decade. As the
baby-boom generation ages, it will put only more stress on the system. With more
than 25 percent of all Medicare costs generated in the last two months of life,
government already has the motive to ration care to the elderly.

If the House bill were to become law, these new government bureaucracies would
then also potentially have the power. Are we supposed to trust that they won't
use it?

If such rationing occurs, rules will be needed to determine whether to spend
federal health care dollars on a given individual. What might those rules look
like? Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel is a key health care adviser to President Barack Obama
and the brother of White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel. He co-wrote an
academic article in January exploring the ethical challenges of valuing an
individual's life in the context of allocating medical resources that are very
scarce, such as organs or vaccines.

As an example, he and his co-authors proposed a system of valuation that could
take into account that "[a] young person with a poor prognosis has had few
life-years but lacks the potential to live a complete life. Considering
prognosis forestalls the concern that disproportionately large amounts of
resources will be directed to young people with poor prognoses."

In a 1996 article in another journal, Emanuel similarly hypothesized that
"services provided to individuals who are irreversibly prevented from being or
becoming participating citizens are not basic and should not be guaranteed. An
obvious example is not guaranteeing health services to patients with dementia."

Emanuel contends that he was exploring what rules might be used to ration care,
not specifically prescribing policy. But isn't that the point? What we see at
town-hall meetings are Americans who legitimately believe it would be
fundamentally unjust for government panels to make these kind of ethical
decisions instead of individuals, loved ones and doctors.

To be clear, the health care system is in need of reform, particularly health
insurance. But the answer is not central planning. The answer is more market
competition --- giving consumers more choices, more information and more
control.

Here is one example. There are more than 1,300 health insurance companies in
this country, but currently, consumers can buy only a product licensed in each
individual state. Creating a nationwide health insurance market where any
individual or group can shop for less expensive coverage from another state
would provide more choices, forcing private plans to create better products,
improve services and lower prices.

We must also equip individuals with information on health care cost and quality.
Releasing the Medicare-claims history of doctors and hospitals (with patients'
personal information removed) would give Americans more knowledge to choose the
most efficient institutions, practitioners and the most effective treatments.
Inexplicably, this taxpayer-funded data remain locked away.

Of course, some Americans also need financial resources to pay for their health
care choices. Tax credits are one way to help consumers purchase private health
care coverage, or we could allow individuals to deduct the cost of insurance
they purchase, just as employers do now. These are just some solutions to create
competition to drive down costs while increasing quality.

There is no doubt that we badly need to improve our health care system. I
welcome the comprehensive debate now taking place across the country on how to
accomplish this goal. But reform must empower individuals, not government.

Former GOP Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich is founder of the Center for
Health Transformation.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2009 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              74 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 27, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Olson Acts To Protect Healthcare Employees Constitutional Rights

LENGTH: 341  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the MP Pete Olson has issued the following news release:



 Last night Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22) voted to protect the rights of individuals
and healthcare providers who have ethical and religious objections to abortion.
Olson was a cosponsor of and voted in support of H.R. 4828, the Conscience
Protection Act. This bill will prevent the Federal Government, and any State or
local government that receives Federal funds from penalizing, retaliating
against, or otherwise discriminating against a health care provider on the basis
that the provider does not participate in abortion services.





 "While there is agreement on both sides that no one should be forced to have an
abortion, there is no protection for those healthcare providers who oppose
performing an abortion on moral, ethical or religious grounds," Rep. Olson said.
"The Constitution protects these individuals from government discrimination for
refusing to participate in the taking of innocent life. I applaud the House for
acting to protect these sacred constitutional protections."



 Background on the need for H.R. 4828:



 In violation of a federal law known as the Weldon Amendment, the California
Department of Managed Health Care requires health plans to cover abortions.
Religious employers in California that offer group health plans to their
employees lodged an objection with the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), which has oversight responsibility for enforcing the Weldon
Amendment, noting that the State's action violates the Weldon Amendment. On June
21, HHS sent the State and the objecting sponsors a letter stating that HHS
refuses to take any action because the insurance companies have no moral or
religious objection to abortion coverage.



  The Weldon Amendment provides that states receiving federal funds may not
discriminate against health plans based on their decision not to cover or pay
for abortions.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 23, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Managed Care Is Supermarket Medicine;
Doctors' Ethical Bind

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 438 words


To the Editor:

The editorial "Sneak Attack on Health Reform" (April 11) attacks "any willing
provider" provisions in health care plans, under which any provider willing to
accept a plan's fees and standards must be accepted by the insurance plan. You
say that this "innocent-sounding" provision would undermine cost and quality
controls. The truth is that these provisions are essential to protect quality of
care.

You assume insurance companies are interested in providing cost-effective,
good-quality care. My experience as a practicing psychologist tells me
otherwise. Insurance companies are indeed motivated to minimize costs (that is,
benefits paid out) -- this increases profits. But they have no incentive to
maximize quality -- that often costs money. The result is that they often
exclude highly trained and experienced providers who they think may prescribe
more expensive treatment, and allow in mediocre practitioners who they think
will be more compliant with the company's wish to save money. Similarly,
"medical necessity," the standard by which the companies determine whether to
pay for treatment, is generally defined in a highly restrictive and self-serving
way. In mental health treatment, the area with which I am familiar, brief,
inexpensive and inadequate treatment is often all that is approved, when more
extensive treatment is necessary.

Without any-willing-provider provisions, a doctor who asks an insurance company
for more treatment than the company says is necessary risks being thrown off the
company's list of approved providers. (A recent, ominous development is some
companies' requirement that for benefits to be paid, the company must make the
referral to the doctor. Patients cannot even choose a company-approved doctor on
their own.)

Doctors in this situation are caught in an ethical bind between their commitment
to quality care for the patient and the need to earn a living. When a national
health care plan comes into being, predictions are that there will be only a few
insurance companies providing health coverage, each one of which will cover very
large numbers of people. In that case, being dumped from the approved provider
list will not only mean sudden termination of ongoing treatments, but the loss
of potential patients.

Without any-willing-provider provisions, speaking up means risking the loss of
one's livelihood. Do we want our doctors to be able to look after their
patients' best interests, or to become insurance company functionaries whose
bottom line is staying in the insurance company's good graces?

JAY B. FRANKEL
New York, April 13, 1994

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

Medical liability and malpractices conference begins

BYLINE: Suchitra Bajpai Chaudhary Senior Reporter

LENGTH: 642 words


Dubai: Medicine is a humane profession and one of the most important
stakeholders in the health-care sector is the patient who is at the receiving
end for health-care services.

Keeping the rights of the patient in mind, the entire health-care sector of the
region came together for the third Arab conference on Medial Liability and
Malpractices. The two-day conference (being held on November 12-13) aims to
cover the entire spectrum of issues related to medical liability and
malpractices in the practice of medicine and has representation from the medical
and pharmaceutical field from GCC and Arab countries.

Speaking to Gulf News, Dr Layla Al Marzouqi, acting head of the Health
Regulation Department of Dubai Health Authority (DHA) and one of the keynote
speakers at the conference, had said: "On these two days we will have speeches
and workshops that will cover six main issues. These are medical malpractices
[both hospital and pharmacy malpractices], how to handle difficult cases, ethics
of medicine, consent of the patient, rules and regulations to conduct research
on a patient's medical history and the methods to conduct a medical
investigation in the case of medical malpractice."

Opening the conference, the DHA director-general Eisa Al Maidour stressed the
need for sound legal and ethical standards in the health-care sector for the
safety of the patient, which is paramount, and also to meet the challenges of
the advances made in the medical field and health-care sector. He added the
rules and regulations and the legal-judicial parameters on the subject need to
be formally taught to the medical fraternity. He said that a conference like
this was important for the exchange of knowledge and expertise in this field and
in order to strike a balance between the rights of doctors and that of patients.
"At the end of the conference the learned panel will make certain announcements
and recommendations that would be considered for adoption by the health-care
sector on the issues discussed here," he said.

Dr Ramadan Al Beloushi, Managing Director, Dubai Healthcare City Authority -
Regulatory, said, "Patient safety tops the agenda for all relevant stakeholders.
Protecting the rights of patients and physicians is the cornerstone for any
health-care system. As the UAE's health-care system matures with factors such as
accreditation and mandatory health insurance, there is an even greater need to
educate the patient on his or her rights. The challenge is to create an
effective mechanism to raise the current level of awareness in the UAE's
multi-cultural community."

He added: "Rules and regulations are integral to ensure quality and safety,
whether for a patient, a physician or for a health-care provider. For instance,
before an overseas hospital decides to operate in Dubai, it will consider the
regulatory framework and its capacity to protect its physicians and uphold
patient rights. Conferences like this are important to instil confidence in the
[health care] system and strengthen efforts to raise the emirate's medical
tourism profile."

Dr Tawfik Al Khawaja, Director-General of the Ministry of Health for GCC states,
and Dr Rafat Al Fawri, spokesperson for the Arab League, both emphasised the
professional, legal and ethical aspects of medical practice. They dwelt upon the
need for high ethical standards for medical liabilities and stringent
regulations to be implemented in the medical field for sustainable development
of the health-care sector in the GCC and the Middle East.

The main collaborators for the conference are the Ministry of Health, Ministry
of Justice, Dubai Health Care City, DHA, the Imperial College of London, the
Emirates Medical Association, the American University of the Emirates, the World
Health Organisation (WHO), the National Media Council and Sabra Institute of
legal training, among others.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2014 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            January 27, 2009 Tuesday

Exit DiMasi // Like his predecessors, speaker departs under cloud

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 537 words


COLUMN: IN OUR OPINION

Make no mistake: House Speaker Salvatore F. DiMasi must shoulder the full weight
of responsibility for the ethical entanglements that prompted him to resign the
speakership and his legislative seat. At the same time, the spectacle of the
exit under a cloud of yet another speaker suggests a need for drastic change in
Beacon Hill's political culture, which evidently is fertile ground in which
seeds of corruption may grow.

The downfall of the genial Mr. DiMasi is made more poignant by his positive
accomplishments as speaker, including helping to shape the landmark health
insurance law and playing a key role in blocking casinos and slot parlors.

Sadly, his accomplishments are overshadowed by ethical clouds. While he has not
been charged with any crime, he is the subject of an Ethics Commission
investigation, and two grand juries are investigating some of his associates in
cases of influence-peddling. The revelation that a longtime associate of the
speaker paid $7,500 in legal fees for Mr. DiMasi's in-laws at a time when the
associate was lobbying on Beacon Hill was perhaps the last straw.

The best that can be said about Mr. DiMasi's exit is that he made it quickly,
with an effective date of today, refraining from excessive protestations of
innocence. However, it stretches credulity to suggest, as Mr. DiMasi did, that
ethics issues did not force his hand. Whether his actions were technically legal
or not, the public cannot be expected to accept the repeated appearance of gross
improprieties by top officials.

The jockeying for the speaker's job gives scant hope for a real change. Rep.
John Rogers, who has been seeking the job for years, has his own ethical issues
involving campaign funds and mortgage payments on a vacation home. Rep. Robert
A. DeLeo, as Ways and Means chairman, may have had a hand in the same
ticket-agency legislation that figured in Mr. DiMasi's ethics woes.

With three successive speakers now having left under ethical clouds, debate over
the next one must include consideration of how to return an unimpeachable sense
of ethics and honor to legislative leadership positions.

Several measures before the Legislature will offer lawmakers a chance to
demonstrate that their commitment to ethics extends beyond lip service.

Reps. John F. Quinn and Martin J. Walsh have proposed measures aimed at
decentralizing power by imposing term limits for the House speaker, requiring
election of the speaker pro tempore and decreasing the number of votes needed to
call a caucus or special session. Rep. Jennifer M. Callahan has proposed
loosening the stranglehold of special interests by reining in lobbyists'
campaign contributions and sponsorship of junkets and other events.

Even more pressing is the need for legislative transparency and a change in what
aptly has been called the "closed-door culture" on Beacon Hill. Having exempted
itself from the state Open Meeting Law and Public Records Law, the Legislature
is virtually unanswerable to the public for the manner in which it conducts the
people's business.

Corruption thrives in the shadows, it is said, and withers in the light of day.
Clearly, the Massachusetts Legislature is in need of a cleansing dose of
sunshine.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Make no mistake: House Speaker Salvatore F. DiMasi must shoulder the
full weight of responsibility for the ethical entanglements that prompted him to
resign the speakership and his legislative seat. At the same time, the spectacle
of the exit under a cloud of yet another speaker suggests a need for drastic
change in Beacon Hill's political culture, which evidently is fertile ground in
which seeds of corruption may grow.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday

Everyday ethics: Full disclosures

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

SECTION: NEWS; National; World; Features

LENGTH: 690 words


My same-sex partner and I are legally married in another country, a marriage not
recognized by our state or (obviously) federal government, with significant
negative consequences to our modest financial situation. My partner would be
eligible for some government aid if she applied as a single person, but it feels
disingenuous to do so, because as a family, we make well above the poverty line.
In some sense, however, the government owes us this money since it unjustly
disregards our marriage. Should she apply?

Name Withheld, Portland, Maine

There's no ethical obstacle to her doing so. As you realize to your dismay, in
this context "single" is a technical term with a precise meaning defined by law.
Your partner's duty is to meet the criteria for aid and fill out those
applications honestly. If, for the purposes of, for example, health-insurance
subsidies, the agency administering the program regards her as single, she has
every right -- ethical and legal -- to apply as such.

"Family" has various meanings to a religious body, to a state legislature, to a
boss who hopes his employees won't unionize, to Don Corleone. I take it to be a
synonym for "insipid" when it precedes the word "film" and for "inedible" when
followed by the word "restaurant." Context shapes meaning. What's more, marriage
has long been, among other things, an economic institution. Your partner may
take that into account when considering these applications.

This decision has nothing to do with the government's compensating her for rough
treatment or being evenhanded or mitigating any injustice marriage law imposes
on you both. Nor could you argue that because federal marriage law discriminates
against same-sex couples, denying them equal treatment, you have an ethical
right to balance the scales by cutting the line at the post office or punching a
homophobe in the snoot, however appealing those actions might seem. But you have
no duty to set stricter standards for such programs than the law itself.
Similarly, although I favor a more progressive income tax, one that might compel
a nice fellow like me to write a bigger check, I am not morally obliged to send
the IRS more money than current law prescribes.



I am a psychiatrist who happens to be an atheist. Occasionally a patient asks me
what religion I follow and, displeased by my answer, seeks another psychiatrist.
I am a physician, not a priest. Religious beliefs seem as relevant to my
profession as they are to an accountant's. Nevertheless, candor sometimes costs
me a patient. May I claim a belief in God to avoid damage to my credibility and
business?

Vaidyanath Iyer, The Woodlands, Texas

To rephrase your question slightly: May you lie to a patient to initiate a
relationship of trust? OK, I've rephrased it totally and unflatteringly, but the
answer -- no --- is provided by the American Psychiatric Association's
"Principles of Medical Ethics," which requires you to be "honest in all
professional interactions." And rightly so.

What you may do is decline to answer such questions. Glen O. Gabbard, a
professor of psychiatry at Baylor College of Medicine, told me in an e-mail that
"it is not dishonest to use restraint in responding to questions of a personal
nature." He added, "One can also inquire about the reasons for the question."
The patient's reply might offer insights useful in treatment.

The patient's question need not reflect mere prejudice but could express a
desire for a psychiatrist whose personal experience will yield a deeper
understanding of the patient. On such benign grounds, some women seek a female
psychiatrist, some homosexuals a homosexual. But it is also true that you need
not be a Presbyterian to effectively treat a Presbyterian. Even a gay female
Presbyterian.

And so you should respond courteously to such queries, answering those about
your training and technique but not those you deem irrelevant to the work. Are
you Jewish? A Republican? An opera buff? This demurral could cost you a patient
or two, but so be it. A patient's determination to make an unwise decision does
not justify a doctor's deceit.



Alt Heads:

Financialaid and fulldisclosures

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                          November 12, 1987, Thursday

LONG-TERM HEALTH CARE EMERGING AS TOP ISSUE OF '88

BYLINE: LAURA RALEY BORDA; Journal of Commerce Staff

SECTION: INS, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The estimated $ 35 billion annual cost of long-term health care is emerging as a
hot topic for public debate as medical treatment enables Americans to live
longer but at a high cost.

At a seminar Tuesday sponsored by the American Council of Life Insurance and the
Health Insurance Association of America, experts explored private sector,
overnment and ethical problems in providing long-term health care.

"Long-term health care will emerge as one of the top issues of 1988," said
Robert Waldron, New York director of the council.

Extended care, either in an institution or at home, results from a chronic
illness or the inability to care for oneself. But an average nursing home costs
about $ 22,000 a year and the median income for an older American is $ 11,500.

"Personal and family resources are not enough," said Donald F. Reilly, senior
vice president of the National Council on Aging Inc.

The catastrophic health-care bill before Congress is not enough either, Mr.
Reilly said. It will only provide about 20 percent of the long-term health-care
costs and has no provisions for care outside the hospital.

Alternatives to nursing home care include adult day-care and home health- care
services.

However, Mr. Reilly said, "Medicare has a strong bias toward institutionali
zation." Medicare only pays about 2 percent of nursing home costs and is sharply
limited in what it covers.

The impact of nursing home care reduces formerly middle-class Americans to
impoverishment, Mr. Reilly said. One-half who enter a nursing home face
impoverishment within 13 weeks, he added.

"The costs are daunting to families," Mr. Reilly said.

Long-term health-care insurance is emerging as an employee benefit, which will
help pay for the huge costs of caring for the elderly.

Public and private sector planning for long-term care is the solution, said
Bruce L. Boyd, vice president of group operations for the Teacher's Insurance
and Annuity Association.

"The financing will have to come from a joint effort," Mr. Boyd said.

Employer-sponsored insurance is the least expensive way to expand long- term
health-care coverage, Mr. Boyd said. "We do need to correct the current method
of financing long-term care," he said.

But because long-term care insurance is costly to employers, employees will have
to take on the costs of the coverage and encourage employers to provide it, Mr.
Boyd said. The federal government should give employers tax incentives to
provide long-term health-care coverage.

"We've got to make sure our kids won't get stuck paying for our care," Mr. Boyd
said. "We need to start paying for it now."

About 500,000 people are covered under long-term health-care policies.

Five insurers, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., Aetna Life & Casualty Co.,
Prudential Insurance Co. of America, UNUM Life Insurance Co. and Travelers
Corp., are providing long-term health-care coverage.

"As the market expands, I think we'll see more policies," Mr. Boyd said.

Part of the debate surrounding long-term health-care stems from ethical issues,
said Bart J. Collopy, an associate at the Hastings Center, which explores
ethical problems in the medical field.

Ethical debate is divided into two areas: clinical problems, such as a person's
right to refuse medical treatment, and policy problems. Policy debate centers on
the extent of society's obligation to the elderly, Mr. Collopy said.

The burden of long-term health care for the elderly is carried by family,
younger taxpayers and the government.

"What are the claims of the elderly on society?" Mr. Collopy said. Obligation
can be based on the idea that the elderly deserve respect for having lived a
long life, for being disabled or for being poor.

"Should it be based on age or need?" Mr. Collopy asked. "Should it be based on
merit or need?"

Mr. Collopy said the current system is based on merit because beneficiaries must
pay into the system to receive benefits.

"Long-term health care has been fiscalized and strategized," Mr. Collopy said.
Moral considerations are needed to keep the issue from being clouded by monetary
concerns, he added.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              80 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            February 8, 2015 Sunday

P.M. nominee under fire for power grip over media

LENGTH: 529 words


Prime Minister nominee Rep. Lee Wan-koo has come under fire for allegedly
abusing his power over the media to withhold unfavorable stories about him.

Lee Wan-koo

The latest controversy follows a series of other allegations including academic
plagiarism and real estate speculation.

His confirmation hearings, initially scheduled on Monday and Tuesday, were
postponed by a day amid the intensifying controversy.

Lee, who served as the floor leader of the ruling Saenuri Party until his
nomination last month, has been accused by Rep. Kim Kyung-hyup of calling media
executives to tell them not to publish stories about his alleged ethical lapses.

He also reportedly told young reporters on Friday that "journalists can either
build their career or ruin it depending on what I tell their bosses at work."

Lee issued an apology on the same day, saying his remarks were inappropriate
albeit made in an informal setting.

As an incumbent National Assembly member, Lee was expected to pass the
confirmation hearings without many obstacles.

So far, no incumbent lawmaker has withdrawn their nominations over criticism
during or after their hearings at the National Assembly for high government
posts.

Lee's scheduled hearings are expected to focus on his alleged ethical
violations, including power abuse over the media, plagiarizing his 1994 doctoral
thesis and intentionally omitting parts of his annual wealth report.

He also has been accused of real estate speculation. Last week, Lee's second son
underwent a public medical examination to prove that he had suffered a knee
injury and therefore was legitimately exempted from the nation's mandatory
military service.

Following the series of allegations, Rep. Jin Sun-mee from the main opposition
party on Sunday accused Lee's second son of not paying some 24 million won
($22,000) in national health insurance premiums since 2011.

According to Jin, Lee's son purposely did not register himself as a
single-person household although he was working at an American law firm from
2011 to last year, earning 230 million won a year.

The 34-year-old got away with not paying the premiums by falsely staying as his
father's dependent on legal documents, Jin said.

The unexpected criticism over Lee and his family's past doings may complicate
things for Cheong Wa Dae, which orchestrated the small-scale Cabinet reshuffle
â[#x20ac]o including nominating Lee as the new prime minister â[#x20ac]o aimed
to regain public confidence in the administration.

Last year, President Park Geun-hye's bid to replace the incumbent Prime Minister
Chung Hong-won ended in failure after her appointments of two nominees
â[#x20ac]o Ahn Dae-hee and Moon Chang-keuk â[#x20ac]o fell through.

Park decided to retain Chung, who last year offered to resign amid criticism of
the government's handling of the sinking of the ferry Sewol, after the
nomination debacle.

Moon, a former newspaper writer, dropped his nomination over mounting criticism
of his controversial, pro-Japanese past remarks, while former prosecutor Ahn
withdrew amid ethical lapse allegations that he received favors from his
prosecutorial network.

Neither Moon nor Ahn reached their confirmation hearings.

By Claire Lee (dyc@heraldcorp.c

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Perks of Being a Layabout

BYLINE: By CHUCK KLOSTERMAN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 822 words


My 28-year-old son has decided to become a novelist. He recently took a
part-time job at a grocery store, working just 15 hours a week to pay his bills,
leaving him enough time to write. His low income qualifies him for Medicaid. He
could work more if he chose to. Considering this, do taxpayers have a
responsibility to provide health coverage for him? Does it matter if this is a
short- or long-term strategy? NAME WITHHELD

First of all, I think your son is making a mistake -- not by trying to become a
novelist, but by doing so in the manner he has chosen. It's possible to write a
book while working more than 15 hours a week, and financial security will
support his creative process more than the extra hours, which he could just as
easily generate from sleeping less and writing all weekend. But you're asking
whether he is wrong to qualify himself for Medicaid, and whether society should
provide him with it. The Health Insurance Association of America classified
Medicaid as ''a government insurance program for persons of all ages whose
income and resources are insufficient to pay for health care.'' Clearly, his
income qualifies. But do his ''resources'' include only the money he has on
reserve, or do they also include his hypothetical employability and theoretical
earning potential?

If we view his mind and body as a ''resource,'' he most likely has the ability
to earn enough money to get off Medicaid. But that logic misrepresents why a
program like this exists. The gross domestic product of the United States is
more than $17 trillion. There's no ethical reason any citizen of a country that
wealthy should not be able to receive the minimum level of care if he becomes
sick or injured, which is what Medicaid provides. It's not as if your son is
consciously ripping off this program. He doesn't want to go to the hospital;
it's just something that might happen. And if it does, society has a
responsibility to provide a minimum level of care, just as he will have a
responsibility to pay federal income tax if he ends up selling a novel. A
questionable career move doesn't negate his citizenship.

SO NICE, HE DONATED TWICE

My wife and I donate to a certain nonprofit organization every year because we
like the work they do. We give more than twice what they call a ''membership''
level, for which they award a card that bestows discounts at local businesses.
Would it be ethical for us to split our donation so that each of us becomes a
member and gets a discount card? We would be giving this money just for the sake
of the continued existence of this group's work, but we do enjoy the discounts
that membership gives us. NAME WITHHELD, MAINE

Charity is not an obligation. You're not swindling anyone. If it's morally
acceptable to receive any kind of reward for giving a donation, it's morally
acceptable to receive two rewards if the level of donation fulfills the criteria
designated by the institution. My guess is that you and your wife don't even
need to split the donation; just contact the nonprofit and tell them exactly
what you told me. I'd be surprised if they refused to send you two cards,
particularly as there's no way they could stop you from exercising this minor
loophole.

BURN NOTICE

My sister has told us she wants to be cremated when she dies. She is single, in
her mid 50s and counting on her siblings to carry out her wishes. The rest of
the family, however, does not believe in cremation and does not want to carry
out her directive. (The disagreement is philosophical -- we believe in burial to
preserve green space. It's not a religious matter.) We have told her so, but she
is insistent. Do we have an ethical obligation to carry out her stated wishes
although we disagree? NAME WITHHELD, MARYLAND

Questions about the rights of dead people are inevitably complicated by a lack
of clarity over what the person wanted, or the impossibility of gauging the
''feelings'' of someone who can no longer feel anything. But this case is
different; it involves someone who is merely thinking about dying and can still
clearly outline what she wants to happen when that occurs. You may disagree with
her wishes, but her wishes are reasonable. As such, you have two options. One is
to agree to her request. The other is to directly tell her that you value green
space more than you respect her right to decide how her own body is dealt with
upon the completion of her life (and that she will have to find a nonrelative
willing to handle these arrangements). It's possible, I suppose, to make the
argument that the preservation of open space matters more than the wishes of
someone who will no longer be sentient enough to care. But that makes you a
stridently ethical person and a substandard brother.

EMAIL queries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them  to the Ethicist, The New
York Times Magazine,  620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include  a
daytime phone number.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/magazine/the-perks-of-being-a-layabout.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING ( DRAWING BY MARK NERYS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Perks of Being a Layabout

BYLINE: By CHUCK KLOSTERMAN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 822 words


My 28-year-old son has decided to become a novelist. He recently took a
part-time job at a grocery store, working just 15 hours a week to pay his bills,
leaving him enough time to write. His low income qualifies him for Medicaid. He
could work more if he chose to. Considering this, do taxpayers have a
responsibility to provide health coverage for him? Does it matter if this is a
short- or long-term strategy? NAME WITHHELD

First of all, I think your son is making a mistake -- not by trying to become a
novelist, but by doing so in the manner he has chosen. It's possible to write a
book while working more than 15 hours a week, and financial security will
support his creative process more than the extra hours, which he could just as
easily generate from sleeping less and writing all weekend. But you're asking
whether he is wrong to qualify himself for Medicaid, and whether society should
provide him with it. The Health Insurance Association of America classified
Medicaid as ''a government insurance program for persons of all ages whose
income and resources are insufficient to pay for health care.'' Clearly, his
income qualifies. But do his ''resources'' include only the money he has on
reserve, or do they also include his hypothetical employability and theoretical
earning potential?

If we view his mind and body as a ''resource,'' he most likely has the ability
to earn enough money to get off Medicaid. But that logic misrepresents why a
program like this exists. The gross domestic product of the United States is
more than $17 trillion. There's no ethical reason any citizen of a country that
wealthy should not be able to receive the minimum level of care if he becomes
sick or injured, which is what Medicaid provides. It's not as if your son is
consciously ripping off this program. He doesn't want to go to the hospital;
it's just something that might happen. And if it does, society has a
responsibility to provide a minimum level of care, just as he will have a
responsibility to pay federal income tax if he ends up selling a novel. A
questionable career move doesn't negate his citizenship.

SO NICE, HE DONATED TWICE

My wife and I donate to a certain nonprofit organization every year because we
like the work they do. We give more than twice what they call a ''membership''
level, for which they award a card that bestows discounts at local businesses.
Would it be ethical for us to split our donation so that each of us becomes a
member and gets a discount card? We would be giving this money just for the sake
of the continued existence of this group's work, but we do enjoy the discounts
that membership gives us. NAME WITHHELD, MAINE

Charity is not an obligation. You're not swindling anyone. If it's morally
acceptable to receive any kind of reward for giving a donation, it's morally
acceptable to receive two rewards if the level of donation fulfills the criteria
designated by the institution. My guess is that you and your wife don't even
need to split the donation; just contact the nonprofit and tell them exactly
what you told me. I'd be surprised if they refused to send you two cards,
particularly as there's no way they could stop you from exercising this minor
loophole.

BURN NOTICE

My sister has told us she wants to be cremated when she dies. She is single, in
her mid 50s and counting on her siblings to carry out her wishes. The rest of
the family, however, does not believe in cremation and does not want to carry
out her directive. (The disagreement is philosophical -- we believe in burial to
preserve green space. It's not a religious matter.) We have told her so, but she
is insistent. Do we have an ethical obligation to carry out her stated wishes
although we disagree? NAME WITHHELD, MARYLAND

Questions about the rights of dead people are inevitably complicated by a lack
of clarity over what the person wanted, or the impossibility of gauging the
''feelings'' of someone who can no longer feel anything. But this case is
different; it involves someone who is merely thinking about dying and can still
clearly outline what she wants to happen when that occurs. You may disagree with
her wishes, but her wishes are reasonable. As such, you have two options. One is
to agree to her request. The other is to directly tell her that you value green
space more than you respect her right to decide how her own body is dealt with
upon the completion of her life (and that she will have to find a nonrelative
willing to handle these arrangements). It's possible, I suppose, to make the
argument that the preservation of open space matters more than the wishes of
someone who will no longer be sentient enough to care. But that makes you a
stridently ethical person and a substandard brother.

EMAIL queries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them  to the Ethicist, The New
York Times Magazine,  620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include  a
daytime phone number.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/magazine/the-perks-of-being-a-layabout.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING ( DRAWING BY MARK NERYS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2014 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Perks of Being a Layabout

BYLINE: By CHUCK KLOSTERMAN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 817 words


My 28-year-old son has decided to become a novelist. He recently took a
part-time job at a grocery store, working just 15 hours a week to pay his bills,
leaving him enough time to write. His low income qualifies him for Medicaid. He
could work more if he chose to. Considering this, do taxpayers have a
responsibility to provide health coverage for him? Does it matter if this is a
short- or long-term strategy? NAME WITHHELD

First of all, I think your son is making a mistake -- not by trying to become a
novelist, but by doing so in the manner he has chosen. It's possible to write a
book while working more than 15 hours a week, and financial security will
support his creative process more than the extra hours, which he could just as
easily generate from sleeping less and writing all weekend. But you're asking
whether he is wrong to qualify himself for Medicaid, and whether society should
provide him with it. The Health Insurance Association of America classified
Medicaid as ''a government insurance program for persons of all ages whose
income and resources are insufficient to pay for health care.'' Clearly, his
income qualifies. But do his ''resources'' include only the money he has on
reserve, or do they also include his hypothetical employability and theoretical
earning potential?

If we view his mind and body as a ''resource,'' he most likely has the ability
to earn enough money to get off Medicaid. But that logic misrepresents why a
program like this exists. The gross domestic product of the United States is
more than $17 trillion. There's no ethical reason any citizen of a country that
wealthy should not be able to receive the minimum level of care if he becomes
sick or injured, which is what Medicaid provides. It's not as if your son is
consciously ripping off this program. He doesn't want to go to the hospital;
it's just something that might happen. And if it does, society has a
responsibility to provide a minimum level of care, just as he will have a
responsibility to pay federal income tax if he ends up selling a novel. A
questionable career move doesn't negate his citizenship.

SO NICE, HE DONATED TWICE

My wife and I donate to a certain nonprofit organization every year because we
like the work they do. We give more than twice what they call a ''membership''
level, for which they award a card that bestows discounts at local businesses.
Would it be ethical for us to split our donation so that each of us becomes a
member and gets a discount card? We would be giving this money just for the sake
of the continued existence of this group's work, but we do enjoy the discounts
that membership gives us. NAME WITHHELD, MAINE

Charity is not an obligation. You're not swindling anyone. If it's morally
acceptable to receive any kind of reward for giving a donation, it's morally
acceptable to receive two rewards if the level of donation fulfills the criteria
designated by the institution. My guess is that you and your wife don't even
need to split the donation; just contact the nonprofit and tell them exactly
what you told me. I'd be surprised if they refused to send you two cards,
particularly as there's no way they could stop you from exercising this minor
loophole.

BURN NOTICE

My sister has told us she wants to be cremated when she dies. She is single, in
her mid 50s and counting on her siblings to carry out her wishes. The rest of
the family, however, does not believe in cremation and does not want to carry
out her directive. (The disagreement is philosophical -- we believe in burial to
preserve green space. It's not a religious matter.) We have told her so, but she
is insistent. Do we have an ethical obligation to carry out her stated wishes
although we disagree? NAME WITHHELD, MARYLAND

Questions about the rights of dead people are inevitably complicated by a lack
of clarity over what the person wanted, or the impossibility of gauging the
''feelings'' of someone who can no longer feel anything. But this case is
different; it involves someone who is merely thinking about dying and can still
clearly outline what she wants to happen when that occurs. You may disagree with
her wishes, but her wishes are reasonable. As such, you have two options. One is
to agree to her request. The other is to directly tell her that you value green
space more than you respect her right to decide how her own body is dealt with
upon the completion of her life (and that she will have to find a nonrelative
willing to handle these arrangements). It's possible, I suppose, to make the
argument that the preservation of open space matters more than the wishes of
someone who will no longer be sentient enough to care. But that makes you a
stridently ethical person and a substandard brother.

EMAIL queries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them to the Ethicist, The New
York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include a
daytime phone number.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/07/magazine/the-perks-of-being-a-layabout.html

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING ( DRAWING BY MARK NERYS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Gleaner (New Brunswick)

                           February 17, 2009 Tuesday

The quest for ethical product leads to a great revelation

BYLINE: Luke Randall Your business

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 496  words


My past purchasing has been reasonably ethical, but a recent read- through of my
namesake Gospel has pushed me to do even more. This year, I want to help
consumers purchase the best choices that I have available and be on the lookout
for more ethical choices for them.

Angela and I attended three shows in Toronto recently. We were searching for
products in four distinct categories: earth friendly, made closer to home,
ethically made, or made in Canada.

During the Christmas season, we had three Sprigwood toys made in Canada and they
were a hit. Sprigwood is a really cool material made out of recycled sawdust and
recycled plastic. We ordered even more models of Sprigwood toys that were
available during the toy fair. We also reordered another hit from the holidays -
cookware and tea sets from Greentoys. These products are made in the U.S. out of
recycled plastic bottles.

What excited me most, though, was a line of toys from ImagiPLAY. It has been
weighing on my conscience that some consumers have been outright rejecting
products made in China and favouring North American goods, based solely on the
country of origin. As a retailer, I'm more concerned with how the company that
makes the goods treats the environment and its workers. We found just that with
this company.

I asked Linda Stortz of Stortz and Associates, the distributor of the line, to
tell me why my customers should be interested in these products. Here's what she
had to say: "Responsible, ethical companies like ImagiPLAY show real leadership
in manufacturing toys out of earth-friendly, renewable plantation hardwoods
close to the homes of workers who are paid wages according to Fair Trade
Federation Guidelines and have health insurance and retirement benefits.

ImagiPLAY is also Co-Op America Approved and plants over 5,000 trees a year in
developing nations. Stringent quality testing by multiple independent agencies
ensures the safety of both worker and consumer. Barbera Aimes, founder of
ImagiPLAY, recounts stories of personally visiting the small family factories
that produce her toys and seeing mothers and their visiting children eating
their noon meal together before the children scamper back to their local school.
North Americans also share a global responsibility to vulnerable young women in
developing countries.

By providing safe, local, skilled employment to women in their own villages,
they can support their families and have an alternative to exploitation in the
sex trade.

The best news yet is that, by April, our store will label all products that meet
at least one of our four distinct ethics categories. We'll be labelling in which
categories they fall so that you can make informed decisions about your buying
choices. Not all of our products are perfect, but we're trying hard to give our
customers better choices and to let them know which product those are.

Luke Randall is the owner of downtown businesses Endeavours and ThinkPlay. He
can be reached at info@artstuff.ca

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2009 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                 Early Edition

Is it ethical for insurance companies to deny coverage based on genetic
information?

BYLINE: Rev. Geoffrey Kerslake, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Rev. Geoffrey Kerslake; Pg. K8

LENGTH: 1549 words


Rev. Geo Ffrey Kerslake is a priest of the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Ottawa.

In theory every Canadian gets basic medical coverage through government programs
and so additional, private medical insurance provides "extras" over and above
what is medically necessary to improve comfort.

It is helpful to remember that insurance companies run a business to make a
profit for shareholders and owners and not to offer a public service to
customers, whereas publicly funded medical coverage puts the "customer's" needs
first.

We must consider that a genetic predisposition to a medical condition is not a
certainty that a person will develop that illness.

Is it moral to deny coverage to someone based on what might potentially happen?

In other aspects of the law and society, we expect definite proof before we take
action. We do not put people in prison, for example, based on what we think they
might, potentially. So, why are we treating medical predispositions differently?

As a society, we need to ask ourselves how we can best care for others' genuine
medical needs. We need to balance meeting the medical needs of citizens with
developing sound funding methods and this requires careful study and analysis.

There are different funding models and ways to achieve just medical coverage,
but central to all of them must be a respect for human life, from its beginnings
at conception until its end in a natural death. We have the know-how to achieve
just medical coverage, but we must apply the moral and political will to bring
it about.

Rev. JOHN COUNSELL is lead pastor at Vanier Community Church and host of Late
Night Counsell weeknights on 580 CFRA.

Ethical? Businesses cannot exist if they do not make a profit. Making a profit
is not a sin.

I'm trying to imagine myself as a follower of Christ in the position of a CEO of
an insurance company with my comments.

"Genetic information" should be properly understood. It refers to detailed,
verified, evidence that certain individuals will be predisposed to certain
diseases and disorders. It is no different than filling out a medical form that
reveals your family has a history of cancer or some other ailment, except that
it is far more accurate.

It is my understanding that when someone is at risk for such maladies, premiums
can be much higher or coverage can be denied.

The same question could be asked of car insurance companies. Is it ethical for
them to charge double and triple rates to drivers under 25 because they are far
more likely to have an accident? And yet most of us don't have a problem with
this stipulation.

I'm aware of the criticism "but it's not the individual's fault." Granted, but
is it the fault of a conscientious 19-year-old driver at fault when he/she has
to pay more money to drive just because he/she is more likely to have an
accident? No, but the higher risk means higher premiums. What else is a company
to base its financial decisions on?

It would be wonderful if they could offer coverage to everyone with no
restriction, but if it's unaffordable, is it right to put a company out of
business because they can't?

KEVIN SMITH is on the board of directors for the Centre of Inquiry, Canada's
premier venue for humanists, skeptics and freethinkers.

Itend to agree with Woody Allen: "I am not afraid to die, I just don't want to
be there when it happens." But we do have an expiry date. So, many of us ponder
the question: what will be the significant factor causing our departure to
Heaven, Hell or non-existence? Too many misguided souls seek answers by visiting
a psychic.

Today, there is another method, scientific - not supernatural. Genetic testing
is available to those who want to know not only what sickness might cause the
grim reaper to visit, but also when he could arrive.

The test involves an analysis of your DNA and can detect your vulnerability to
inherited disease. This is not necessarily a death sentence as many diseases are
treatable or preventable if caught in time. With the advances in medicine, many
illnesses that will kill us today, might be manageable tomorrow.

However, there are privacy and ethical issues that must be considered. Insurance
companies are sincere when they advertise they're very interested in us;
primarily to find out our potential for future disease. They're on our side, a
good neighbour who cares, until they discover we're at a high risk of developing
cancer.

In Canada, insurance law permits insurers to require health information,
including genetic data, before offering a policy. Based on this information,
they determine our rates or can decide not to insure us at all. If we refuse to
oblige them, they can refuse to cover us. It is highly unethical to discriminate
based on our genes, something we have no control over.

The law must be changed, but complacent Canadians get more excited talking about
the weather. We can only accept partial blame. As Woody Allen says: "There are
worse things in life than death. Have you ever spent an evening with an
insurance salesman?"

Rev. Ray Innen Parchelo is a novice Tendai priest and founder of the Red Maple
Sangha, the first lay Buddhist community in Eastern Ontario.

Presumably, this question relates to health-related insurance only and not home,
auto or other property coverage, where such information requests would be
entirely inappropriate.

In Canada, the privacy of everyone's health information, such as genetic testing
data, is legally protected. No insurance company will have such information
without your permission, so they will only have it as part of a process of your
purchasing insurance. It cannot be shared except for the purposes of a specific
application.

In applying for health insurance, companies already require information about
medical history and habits, such as smoking and drinking. Such details allow
them to make predictions.

There is an element of gambling in the insurance business, hence the language of
risk assessment and probabilities. Knowing the odds, they are betting that they
can predict likelihoods of your good health and illness to make a profit out of
your good health.

For example, we know that a 55-year-old male who smokes and is obese has a
higher risk of diabetes, heart disease and so on. Not a good bet, and I expect
they may already deny coverage for such highrisk cases. I can understand why
they would want the added details of genetics. This qualifies the kind of
coverage a company will offer.

In principle, I can't see why this would be any different than the information
they currently ask for when we apply for health insurance. At a more abstract
legal level, I wonder whether genetic information could be construed as shared
information, that is, something we share with our families, past and future. I
wonder then whether this constitutes collective information and, if so, would it
require permission from a larger group for its release.

Rabbi Reuven Bulka, head of Congregation Machzikei Hadas in Ottawa, hosts Sunday
Night with Rabbi Bulka on 580 CFRA.

It is not clear that the issue you raise is a matter of pure ethics.

If an insurance company is up front in defining who and how it will ensure, and
the limitations to its coverage, it is arguable whether this is a breach of
ethics. It does not seem right, but may not be unethical. For the moment,
though, let's work with the presumption this is an ethical matter.

A corollary to your question would be - is it ethical to charge more based on
genetic information? Is charging more for that reason less ethically
objectionable than not granting coverage? In actual fact, I think it is a
generally accepted practice for insurance companies to charge more for
vulnerable people, genetics aside. People who admit to having a family history
of illness are likely to be charged more for health insurance. Smokers are
similarly more likely to pay a higher premium.

The insurance company is taking a greater risk with individuals having a bad
history or bad habits. You did not ask about this ethical issue, but arguably
charging more is not that much different from denying coverage.

In many instances, charging more is tantamount to denying coverage, especially
when the prohibitive cost makes it impossible to purchase the insurance plan.

Given the massive costs that insurance is designed to cover, it is safe to say
that we must do everything within our power to assure that people are covered
for expenses that are likely to occur and the costs for which are prohibitive,
beyond the capacity of the average wageearner.

We already do this with car insurance. It is illegal to drive without car
insurance.

Should we extend this operating principle to other necessary insurances? For
example, should we have some regulatory principles for life insurance or for
education-for-thechildren insurance?

Your question raises the larger issue of the ethical responsibilities we all
have to and for each other. For example, would those who can afford it be
willing to pay a higher premium if that were to make it possible for others not
so blessed to afford insurance?

The taxation system works somewhat along those lines. Those who earn more pay
higher taxes that help sustain services available to the more needy.

The greater question, ethical or otherwise, is: what can we all do to make
insurance accessible to those who need it?

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 1, 1997, Sunday

Tutor can pay loan by degrees

BYLINE: Smita Talati

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1187 words


A university lecturer could use a Pep to repay her mortgage in amounts and at
times to suit her, writes Smita Talati.

Name: Gwyneth Owen-Jackson

Age: 40

Occupation: Open University lecturer

Salary: about Pounds 28,000

Rent:Pounds 350 a month

Pension: Transferred funds from teacher's superannuation scheme and local
education authority scheme to the university superannuation scheme, to which she
contributes 6.35% and her employer 18.55%. Also pays additional voluntary
contributions of Pounds 75 a month into a Friends Provident plan

Insurance: Permanent health insurance with Friends Provident - Pounds 25 a month

Investments: Friends Provident Stewardship Fund Pep to which she contributes
Pounds 100 a month

Savings: Pounds 1,500 split between Nationwide building society and Halifax

GWYNETH, a former secondary school teacher, spends a lot of her time travelling.

As a dedicated charity worker, she has been to Bosnia three times to work
alongside aid workers for Nobody's Children and is also trying to learn Serbo
Croat. One of her ambitions is to retire early and work as a teacher for
Voluntary Service Overseas.

She has recently taken up a post with the Open University and divides her time
between her home-based computer-conference centre in the Suffolk village of
Pakenham, near Bury St Edmunds, and the university's headquarters in Milton
Keynes - a two-hour drive away.

She is therefore looking to buy a property nearer to Milton Keynes soon and will
receive a relocation package from her employer.

She can afford to put down a 15% to 20% deposit on a house worth Pounds
60,000-Pounds 65,000. But with another rise in interest rates on the cards,
which mortgage should she go for?

"I'm currently on a fixed three-year contract," she says. "So I'm cautious about
locking myself into anything which will impose heavy redemption penalties."
Should Gwyneth consider some of the "flexible" mortgages currently available?

Gwyneth has been paying into pension funds since she was 24 and has just
transferred to the university superannuation scheme. She has also been making
free-standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to a Friends Provident
fund for the past two years. She has never taken a career break, but will she
have built up enough funds to be able to stop full-time work at 55?

As Gwyneth has no dependants, she does not need life assurance, but has taken
out permanent health insurance.

Gwyneth has a strong leaning towards ethical investments, hence her Friends
Provident Stewardship Fund personal equity plan (Pep).

She believes she will have between Pounds 50 and Pounds 100 a month disposable
income once she has moved house and wants to know whether to put this into her
pension fund or Pep.

She also has cash in two deposit accounts, and expects to receive about 230 free
shares from the Halifax, which she intends to hold.

So, key questions for Gwyneth are: What sort of mortgage should she look for?
Does she need to boost her pension? And how can she best channel the disposable
income she expects to have in the coming months?

Our experts say that with interest rates at historically low levels (over the
past 15 years the mortgage rate has averaged out at about 10%) Gwyneth should at
least secure a fixed-rate loan on her interest payments - regardless of which
type of repayment vehicle she opts for. As Kevin Hains, director of Francis,
Townsend & Hayward Financial Services in Croydon, points out, if interest rates
rose by one percentage point, monthly repayments on a Pounds 50,000 repayment
loan would swallow up an extra Pounds 38 of her disposable income.

As she is on a fixed-term contract, Robert Guy, technical director for the
independent mortgage adviser John Charcol, agrees that she needs a mortgage that
gives flexibility, but advises against the "flexible" mortgages currently being
aimed at short-term-contract workers. Instead, he says she should use the
proceeds from her Pep to pay off the capital in chunks when she believes the
time is right - and pay only the interest every month.

There is no guarantee that a Pep will pay off a home loan, but assuming a growth
rate of 9%, Guy calculates that the Pounds 100 Gwyneth is currently contributing
to her Friends Provident fund should realise a lump sum of Pounds 35,000 by the
time she retires.

Therefore, by doubling her current Pep contributions, she could clear her
mortgage debt - and have some tax-free income left over for her retirement - for
a monthly outlay similar to that of a repayment mortgage.

Looking at lenders, Guy recommends the Portman building society, which is
currently offering a two-year fixed rate of 6.75% with no early redemption
penalties and the opportunity to remortgage or take up another in-house offer at
the end of the term. Under this scheme, her monthly interest repayments on a
Pounds 52,000 loan would be Pounds 267.19.

However, if gambling on the stock market to pay off her biggest debt makes
Gwyneth nervous, she should stick to a repayment mortgage. The Nationwide
building society is offering a three-year fixed deal at 7.29%, with no early
redemption penalties. There is an application fee of Pounds 295, and a valuation
fee of Pounds 175 - both refundable on completion. Nationwide also charges a
higher indemnity fee on all loans over 75% - which it spreads over 36 months.
Gwyneth would not be obliged to take out an in-house home-insurance policy and
Haines calculates that her monthly payments under this scheme would be
approximately Pounds 440 on a Pounds 50,000 loan.

Looking at pension planning, Guy says that as the retained benefits from
Gwyneth's local-authority and teacher superannuation schemes have been
transferred to her university pension, she will receive a pension equivalent to
31 years' service at 55 - and would thus be nine years short of achieving her
maximum two-thirds of final salary. He predicts that her FSAVC contribution
could bridge four of these years, and says that it has been known for members of
state superannuation schemes to have their benefits enhanced at early
retirement. This means that her employer might calculate her pension at 55, as
though she had worked to 60 - and effectively completed 36 years' service. For
that reason he does not see the need to consider any more pension planning.

Finally, although Gwyneth is determined to hold on to her Halifax shares, she
cannot transfer them into her Friends Provident Pep; she can take advantage of
wrapping her windfall into Halifax's single-company Pep, by ticking the
appropriate box on form A of the share offer. But if she has already sent off
the form without ticking the box, she should call the Halifax helpline on 0345
770066 for the appropriate form.

* Advice is given for guidance only. Readers who would like a financial check-up
- for publication - should write to: Money Makeover, The Sunday Times, 1
Pennington Street, London, E1 9XW. Due to the huge response to the Money
Makeover series, we regret that we cannot enter into any correspondence


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Money Makeover; Profile; Gwyneth Owen Jackson

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited


                              87 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                             March 28, 2016 Monday

GUEST COLUMN;
A prescription for a better health care system

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 738 words


Health care belongs in the realm of public service, not the private for-profit
sector. It should be a societal obligation to provide good medical care to all,
regardless of social or economic circumstances This is the ethical mandate of
the medical profession, historically dedicated, as it should be, to the best
egalitarian principles.

Even the wealthy among us cannot claim to be truly wealthy if our neighbors or
their children suffer from lack of access to proper medical care or the prospect
of bankruptcy because of illness.

The "Affordable Care Act" of the Obama administration correctly addresses the
element of universal access and coverage. However, the ACA does not correct the
poorly constructed elements of health care funding that are still in place.

There are, therefore, both ethical and economic advantages to the following
system that should replace the ACA. The key element of what I propose is that
essentially all funding for universal health care should derive from individual
income taxes, rather than from contributions from employers and other sources.

What I propose is not a "socialized medicine" entity, as it does not interfere
with the choices of either medical providers or patients. All may continue to
work where they prefer and to provide or obtain services to or from whom they
choose. (A true "socialized medicine" system, on the other hand, mandates where
physicians must work and who their patients are. Patients, in turn, must see
their assigned physicians. No one advocates this for the U.S. In other words,
"Single Payer" is not "Single Provider.")

Here, then, is what I suggest:

n A "single payer" -- i.e. a truly "national" health care system, funded
entirely by individual income taxes. In other words, the IRS collects each
individual's payment into the national health care system. No one, therefore,
can opt out, as everyone has to pay income tax.

n Each person to be responsible for a significantly high yearly deductible to
discourage patients and physicians from frivolous over-utilization of medical
resources.

n All taxes and deductibles graduated, based on income, just as are other taxes.

n No employer involvement in health care.

n No private medical insurance company involvement. These entities would simply
disappear, or change their function to solely administration of the system.

n Fee for service compensation still to apply, with 100 percent of fees paid by
the National Health Care system directly to physicians and hospitals.

n No deductibles or co-pays withheld to physicians, but collected as part of the
individual income tax owed.

n Fees paid based on negotiated rates to physicians, clinics, medical
organizations and hospitals; fee schedules updated and revised as needed every
several years.

n Input on fees by multi-disciplinary committees of physicians, government
agencies and other health care organizations.

n Preferred method of compensation to physicians to be yearly salary, based on
the excellence and experience of the physicians.

n No incentives to do unnecessary tests, procedures or visits.

To the extent that businesses would no longer have to deal with health care
matters or the medical expenses of their employees, businesses would be
obligated to raise salaries/wages of their employees. This would largely offset
the higher income taxes that the employees would pay for the national health
care system. Businesses and entrepreneurs would then be able to concentrate on
new ideas, business expansion and more efficient goods and services. The
national economy would benefit infinitely, as would the overall psyche of a
nation that is currently devastated by its bizarre, awful and irrational health
care system.

Another alternative is to set up not-for-profit, physician-run HMOs that would
compete for patients. But a national health care system still would collect all
money by the individual income tax method and pay directly to the HMOs, based on
the population numbers served.

Many enlightened countries use the above concepts, and provide excellent medical
care that is actually better than that in the U.S. Among these are The
Netherlands, Israel, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Canada and more.

Essentially all top U.S. academic centers, their physicians and the medical
literature advocate the above measures.

-- Eli Goodman, MD, is a Springfield-based internal medicine physician, and
serves as medical consultant to several organizations.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                              June 11, 2012 Monday
                            0 South Pinellas Edition

WELLCARE GOING AFTER MEDICAID CONTRACTS

BYLINE: BRITTANY ALANA DAVIS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



HIGHLIGHT: Despite its history of fraud, the Tampa health insurer may win some
of the state business.


A Tampa-based health insurer with a checkered past is preparing to bid on
billions of dollars in state government contracts to serve Florida's poor and
disabled.

And it stands a better-than-even chance of winning at least some of that
business.

As Florida embarks on its plan to move 1.2 million Medicaid patients into
private health plans, WellCare Health Plans of Tampa is widely expected to
secure state contracts that will shift health care for the poor into managed
care programs. The move is an early stage in the Medicaid reform approved by the
Legislature in 2011, pending a green light from the federal government .

The decision for WellCare to bid, though not unexpected, has sparked an outcry
from critics who wonder how badly a company must act before it's banned from
government contracts - and from the right to serve the state's most vulnerable.

But WellCare officials say the company has changed in the two years since it
agreed to pay a $137.5 million fraud settlement amid accusations that the
company bilked money from the state's Medicaid and Healthy Kids programs, and
that it systematically dumped patients with expensive health needs.

"I think we have a highly competent and ethical group now running the company,"
said former U.S. Sen. Bob Graham, who serves as a paid director on the company's
board and chairs a committee to ensure the company is ethical and complies with
regulations. "Our service will be our best evidence of our corporate integrity."

The company's service, however, is what has some health advocates worried. Case
in point: In 2009, WellCare withdrew from a five-county Medicaid pilot that
served as the model for the statewide business WellCare is now seeking.

WellCare's decision disrupted care in some cases for patients with long-term
health problems, disabilities and mental illnesses.

Critics also slam the federal settlement, finalized in April, which requires the
company to repay less than half of the alleged $400 million to $600 million it
siphoned from taxpayers.

Five former executives - including CEO Todd Farha, CFO Paul Behrens and general
counsel Thaddeus Bereday - were indicted in March 2011 and are awaiting trial.

Evidence against them includes taped conversations between executives discussing
how they could duplicate their bills to the state. The executives also discussed
plans to save money by terminating coverage for neonatal babies and terminally
ill patients, and throwing parties to reward employees who ousted expensive
enrollees, according to whistle-blower documents.

"The violations of WellCare were only made known because an employee from the
inside told the story," said Laura Goodhue, executive director of the health
advocacy group Florida CHAIN. "How can the state make sure it doesn't happen
again?"

Allan Bergman, a national Medicaid and managed care consultant for people with
disabilities and chronic conditions, isn't sure the state can.

The stampede to privatize Medicaid programs - Florida hopes to have nearly all
of its 3 million Medicaid beneficiaries in HMOs or HMO-like companies by 2015 -
is based on promises to shrink government costs, not bulk up auditing and
compliance offices, Bergman said.

"It's not the same as outsourcing a contract to clean a building," he said. "The
oversight of these big contracts is critical for the state maintaining
accountability. It worries me in many cases because I think legislatures are
passing Medicaid managed care budgets thinking they're going to outsource the
program and be done."

Michelle Dahnke, a spokeswoman with the Florida Agency for Health Care
Administration, said that, among other measures, the agency will inspect company
offices and require health plans to report their finances and outline how they
will prevent fraud.

State law also requires that if a company stops providing service in one area,
it must forfeit all of its other contracts. It would then pay a penalty plus the
cost to transfer affected patients to another plan.

Tom Arnold, a health care lobbyist and head of the Medicaid program from 2004 to
2007, said the state has access to its historical dealings with health plans and
has the authority to get more information as needed.

"I don't think anyone has a reason to believe (WellCare) or any other entity in
the state is doing anything inappropriate," he said. "I don't mean nothing bad
will ever happen again, but the state has very strong tools to measure the
appropriateness of care."

But Sean Hellein, the WellCare financial analyst who blew the whistle on the
company's fraudulent bookkeeping in 2007, said the company previously had no
problem evading the state's effort to audit its activities. During one on-site
visit by state officials, Hellein said, "The idea was that as long as we could
keep them in the dark, everything would be perfect."

If a particularly smart state worker started asking too many questions, Hellein
said, WellCare had a remedy: It would simply hire the person away from the state
at a much higher salary.

The strategy worked. It took the agency several years to catch on to the
company's strategy of double-billing the state for patient services.

WellCare - which through the company and its executives has contributed at least
$2 million to state political campaigns since 1997 - has advantages in the
bidding process.

It is one of the few companies that specialize in covering Medicaid and Medicare
patients, and serves 400,000 Medicaid patients who have already opted for
managed care.

The 2011 law that mandated the Medicaid changes also gives preference to
Florida-based companies, such as WellCare.

Times staff writer Kris Hundley contributed to this report. Brittany Alana Davis
can be reached at (850) 224-7263 or bdavis@tampabay.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 3, 1983, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Whose Obligation Is Health Care?

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron and Michael Wright

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 341 words


A Presidential commission on medical ethics last week stopped short of declaring
health care a citizen's constitutional right, but not by much. ''Equitable
access,'' the panel said, is the ''ethical obligation'' and ''ultimate
responsibility'' of the Federal Government, even in austere times. As for
austerity, the commission - eight members of which were appointed by President
Reagan and three, including the chairman, by President Carter - called health
care cost control measures unacceptable if they widen the gap between those who
get adequate care and those who don't, or get none at all.

That, however, was as close as the President's Commission for the Study of
Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biochemical and Behavioral Research came to
explicit criticism of the Reagan Administration's health care policies. ''The
cost of achieving equitable access ought to be shared fairly,'' the commission
said. ''But equity does not require equal access.'' On specific programs, the
panel's 223-page report noted that Medicaid cutbacks have reduced many poor
people's access and that ''the process of 'weeding out' ineligible enrollees (in
the Social Security disablity program) appears to have become one of terminating
a substantial number of beneficiaries for the purpose of budgetary savings.''
But it concurred with the Administration that current tax breaks for health
insurance could be cut without violating ethical standards.

The Administration, meanwhile, came forward with another interpretation of a
different responsiblity, that of a person whose parents are in nursing homes.
Under the Medicaid law, officials of the Department of Health and Human Services
said, states may require people to help pay for their parents' nursing home
care, though they acknowledged legal and practical problems in enforcement of
such a ''family responsibility.'' In the past, Washington has told states that
wanted to impose familial contributions as supplements to their assistance to
indigents that they would lose Federal Medicaid money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             March 30, 2014 Sunday

Decisions not to prosecute not same as repealing law

BYLINE: tom campbell staff columnist, The Orange County Register

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. Rebut

LENGTH: 729 words


President Obama has announced that the Affordable Care Act's mandate for all
Americans to have health insurance will not apply until 2017, a three-year
delay, for those who held insurance policies that have been canceled.

Since the president can't unilaterally amend a law, the legal premise is that
Mr. Obama has simply instructed his attorney general not to prosecute such
individuals if they fail to pay the "tax" incurred for not having a health
insurance policy that complies with the ACA.

The attorney general has similarly announced he will not use federal marijuana
laws to prosecute operators of marijuana shops in states that have legalized
marijuana.

The president and the director of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency have also told younger people who entered this country illegally as
minors and have had no other run-ins with the law that they will not be
processed for deportation.

Each example has elicited a complaint from Republicans in Congress that the
president is not acting according to our Constitution, which requires that "he
shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed." There is nothing Congress
can do about it, however, since they cannot pass a law compelling the
prosecution of any individual, and the courts have shown great reluctance to
hear complaints from members of Congress.

The laws, however, remain in place. If an employer does not provide the health
insurance required by the new law, or if an employee does not fulfill the
"individual mandate" to have insurance, each must pay a tax. The president has
ordered his Treasury Department not to collect the tax.

However, the statute of limitations for failure to pay federal taxes is 10
years. Suppose President Hillary Clinton takes a different view, and orders her
IRS commissioner to collect taxes due from 2014?

Suppose an employer hires an individual who did not enter our country legally.
That is a federal crime, and the statute of limitations is five years. Can such
an employer, prosecuted by Attorney General Chris Christie, in the
administration of President Paul Ryan, defend himself by saying the previous
president gave him or her a pass?

The federal law against sale of marijuana also has a five-year statute of
limitations. Marijuana dispensaries in Denver could find themselves in court
four and a half years from now, under the attorney general in President Joe
Biden's administration, for sales they made today.

Other risks exist. A bank that opens a commercial account for a marijuana
dispensary in a state allowing such dispensaries would be risking its federal
license for engaging in drug money laundering. That mere possibility should lead
to a successful bank shareholders derivative suit for exposing the company to
such a risk.

A special conundrum arises under professional associations' ethical rules. The
Supreme Court of California, which administers the ethics rules for California
attorneys, has just ruled that an attorney who did not enter our country legally
can nevertheless practice law here. What about an accounting firm asked to do
the books for a medical marijuana facility in California? Is it ethical for a
California CPA to assist a company in violating federal law, even if the current
attorney general won't prosecute?

What each of these examples points out is that deciding not to prosecute today
is not the same thing as repealing a law that could be applied a few years later
to today's conduct. Only Congress can repeal the immigration laws, the marijuana
laws, or the individual or employer mandates under the new health care law.
Anything short of repeal leaves open the very real possibility of a different
enforcement approach by a different president, reaching back to the very
activity that the present president chose to condone.

That leads to a condition that should not exist in any nation of laws:
uncertainty over how one stands with respect to the law. While Congress might
not be able to stop these examples of presidential repeal of statutes
masquerading as prosecutorial discretion, the deleterious consequences of this
misguided policy upon the rule of law in our country are becoming ever more
clear.

Tom Campbell is the dean of the Fowler School of Law at Chapman University. He
served five terms in the U.S. House of Representatives and was a member of the
Judiciary Committee. These views are his own.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

FAMILY STILL GRATEFUL TO DR. DARREN BEAN

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 956 words


The tragic crash of the UW Med Flight unit on Saturday was a sad moment for
Madison and surrounding communities.

I knew Dr. Darren Bean in 2005 when he was part of Dr. Paramjeet Chopra's heart
professional team at UW Hospital. In March 2005, my husband suffered an aneurysm
and had to be taken to the UW Hospital emergency room.

He was immediately put under the angelical hands of Dr. Chopra, the lead
surgeon, and Dr. Bean, who assisted in the long and difficult surgery. Thanks to
the doctors' professional and experienced team, my husband is alive today when
he was given a very small probability of surviving.

My family will never forget Dr. Darren Bean for his compassion, dedication and
empathy, not only toward my husband, but to all of us. He was always caring and
helped comfort us during the difficult time, as well as giving us hope and
special attention without much in return.

Rest in peace, Dr. Bean.

- Norma Iribarren and family, Madison

McCain's proposal won't solve anything

Sen. John McCain proposes "affordable and available health care" for all by
giving every family a $5,000 refundable tax credit. What a shell game.

Where can anyone find health insurance for $5,000 a year these days? Not most of
the 47 million folks, many working below poverty wages, who have no health
insurance.

Those who already have health insurance would get a $5,000 discount on their
existing policy paid for from our taxes or by increasing the national debt. Most
of our uninsured citizens would still be left out in the cold without any
"affordable or available" coverage at all.

And where would that $5,000 "gift" go? Directly to the health insurance
corporations that are already jerking us around with receipts going into bloated
overhead costs, overpriced medicines, high executive salaries and stockholders'
dividends instead of health care.

Once again the reality behind McCain's "moderate brand" is the same old tired
Republican corporate scam that keeps our money flowing to the few at the top and
does nothing to solve our national health crisis or reform health care.

- Dave Steffenson, Madison

Consider sidewalks for city bike network

Madison, which may be the biking capital of the world, needs dedicated bike
lanes along all our city streets to ensure the safety of our biking population.

Too expensive, you say - there's no way we could possibly hope to put such a
network together? Nonsense. They're called sidewalks. You finance them - use
them, curb cuts and everything.

The chances of injuring pedestrians are less likely than getting hit by a car or
running into the opening door of a parked car. Still worried? Buy a bell, call
"passing left," or ride in the opposite direction.

The stress, anxiety and frustration you cause while risking life and limb can't
possibly make for an enjoyable commute. Cars and bikes don't mix.

Regarding biker complaints about nowhere to ride except near the gutter where
the pavement is broken and uneven, the solution is simple. Get off our city
streets and use the sidewalks. That's what they're designed for.

- Mike Detamore, Madison

St. Raphael's has a history worth saving

I am saddened at the possible replacement of St. Raphael's Cathedral with a new
structure. Yes, the iconic spire and parts of the old edifice will be
incorporated into the new structure, but I don't believe that will be enough.

The walls of St. Raphael's themselves have a history worth saving and a beauty
worth preserving. Consider cases of other preserved ruins. Ponder the venerable
walls of the old Wesleyan Chapel in Seneca Falls, N.Y. Generations of school
children and tourists visit the ruins where Elizabeth Cady Stanton and her
allies drew up the Declaration of Sentiment.

In Coventry, England, the walls of St. Michael's Cathedral survive to
commemorate the will of the British to survive Hitler's onslaught. The ruins of
Coventry are hallowed ground. See photos of St. Michael's and you will be
convinced.

Why not consider the same treatment for the walls of St. Raphael's? Surely those
who built and worshiped here are worthy of remembrance. Do not let the arsonist
responsible for burning St. Raphael's Cathedral have the last word.

- Steve Lindsey, Keene, N.H.

Universal health care will help unify us

What ethical issues are connected to universal health care, a young doctor from
Africa asked me because I'm trained as an anthropologist. His question caught me
off guard.

I replied with, "the same quality of care would be presumably provided to all
residents of the United States and that would be more ethical than what happens
now."

Then I began to consider that universal health care is a vehicle for creating a
greater sense of ourselves as members of a nation. As we would be equals in
terms of receiving comparable medical services, the old concepts of different
kinds of people could be scrapped.

Currently, there are different kinds of treatment depending upon the benefits
granted by insurance policies, which, in turn, are linked to levels of income
dictated by education, often bound to race, class background and other factors.
This results in medical care disparities among individuals and groups.

For example, we have the "worthy poor" such as widows and orphans for whom
Social Security was created, as opposed to women who had children out of wedlock
for whom such economic support was not intended.

So we have several ethical systems that shape who gets what kind of medical
care. These can become one if we have universal health care, with the bonus of
strengthening our image as co-nationals, individuals belonging to one nation.

In an election year when candidates and others talk about bringing people
together, I suggest that universal health is a mechanism to do so.

- Diane Michalski Turner, Madison

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                          June 5, 2000, Monday, FINAL

Americans aren't what you think

BYLINE: Maureen Olsen

SECTION: News; A11 / Letters

LENGTH: 524 words

DATELINE: LA PECHE, Que


I decided I must write this letter because I just can't take it anymore. The
amount of U.S. bashing in the Citizen lately is appalling.

I am an American who moved here two years ago. Why do many Canadians dislike our
southern neighbour so much? Is it jealousy, anger or just because it's the cool
thing to do? There are so many great things about the States that when I hear so
much about the ''brain drain,'' I think why not? There are definite truths about
the States: the taxes are lower, the salaries are higher, the weather is not as
severe and overall there are more career opportunities.

I find it strange that there are so many false stereotypes of the U.S. here in
Canada. I guess it shouldn't surprise me since some Americans think Canada is
covered in snow all year long.

Let me clear up some things:

- The U.S. is not full of guns and violence as the media portrays. The U.S. has
10 times the population that Canada has and the more people there are, the more
chances of incidents occurring. In my 35 years of living in the U.S., never once
have I been a victim of gun violence, including my six years of living in New
York City.

- You will not go poor paying for health insurance. Some people have to pay a
lot but some of them are unemployed or are in unfortunate situations. Most
Americans with jobs at good companies pay very little for health insurance.

At my previous job I was paying $16 a month for excellent medical benefits. Some
people might say that it's better in Canada because everyone has access to
''free'' health care. That is very true but I'd rather pay a small amount of
money and have quick access to diagnostic procedures than wait months for them
here in Canada.

My uncle has just been told that he has to wait eight months for an MRI for a
painful knee. He is considering going to the U.S. to have one next month.

Sure he'll pay for it but he considers his health more important. Jack Wynter,
in his letter to the editor (''Hey, Yanks it's not so bad being a Canuck,'' May
16) comments that ''no citizen in Canada dies in destitution because of
crippling medical bills.''

Maybe not, but perhaps they die waiting for certain procedures to be performed.
I'd rather be alive and a little poorer than the alternative.

Shame on you Dave Toms (''Over-reacting, '' May 25) for blaming American TV for
the problems in St. Catharines. Until you ask every one of those school
officials and police officers what their television viewing habits are, don't go
blaming TV, especially American TV, for their decisions.

By the way, have you watched your Canadian programs, Cold Squad or Nikita,
lately? There's quite a lot of violence in these shows.

For all the anti-American sentiment I hear and read about, I would think that
Canadians would want to avoid going to the U.S. altogether. But no, Canadians
flock there in droves.

My home state of Florida is ''filled'' with Canadians in the wintertime,
including the above mentioned Jack Wynter. If the U.S. is so bad, why go there?

Well, maybe it's to get away from the harsh Canadian winters.

Maureen Olsen, La Peche, Que.


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: P Black & White Photo: The Canadian Press / Don't blame American TV for
problems of violence in Canada, says Maureen Olsen. Just look at Canadian shows
such as Nikita, starring Peta Wilson, and Cold Squad, to see a lot of violence.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday

MCI to consider telemedicine's ethical efficacy

LENGTH: 463  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, April 23 -- With the concept of telemedicine fast catching the fancy
of the healthcare sector, the Medical Council of India (MCI) has decided to look
into its ethical aspects.

Till now, its cost effectiveness and practical ways to deliver services to the
patient's doorstep have only increased popularity, especially in remote areas.

A large number of super-specialty and Government hospitals are opting for
telemedicine facilities, which envisage transfer of a patient's medical data -
demographical information and history, images like X-ray, CT scan and MRI for
diagnosis, treatment as well as clinical consultation - in electronic format.

However, currently, in India there is no law on the e-health and in its absence
there is no check on such facilities in case of any medication errors or medical
violations by them.

Dr SK Sarin, chairman of the MCI board of governors, while underlining the
increasing need for such facilities to reach out to far-flung areas, felt that
one has to ensure that it is not misused.

Expressing similar views, Dr Ranjit Roy Chaudhary, an MCI member, too warned a
word of caution saying that "MCI will soon form a panel to look into ethical
issues relating to the e-healthcare facilities."

Medical information is being provided through mobile phones. For instance, the
Apollo Hospitals group has recently announced major plans to launch Healthcare
India pharmaceutical registry (Hipaar), a drug database for its patients and
doctors for reference.

"Through this process, a person can know whether she or he has been prescribed
the right medicine or not. It also gives information on side effects," said K
Ganapathy, president Apollo Telemedicine Networking Foundation and president of
Telemedicine Society of India.

Taking the concept further, MediAngels, the world's first complete specialised
global eHospital has empanelled over 300 medical experts from 25 countries to
help the patients make informed decisions regarding their health through
internet.

Dr Vinay Aggarwal, President of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) felt the
concept is a boon for the healthcare sector "Patients can have a choice of
doctors without wasting their time and money in trying to reach hospitals unless
it is emergency. Moreover, in this new era of the interconnected world, it will
serve as the future means of delivering healthcare."

Dr Debraj Shome, co-founder of MediAngels, said, "Our company actually satisfies
the toughest US law, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA) Privacy Rule. Hence, there is no question of any violation." Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                            January 27, 2009 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

Exit DiMasi;
Like his predecessors, speaker departs under cloud

SECTION: EDITORIAL; IN OUR OPINION; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 533 words


Make no mistake: House Speaker Salvatore F. DiMasi must shoulder the full weight
of responsibility for the ethical entanglements that prompted him to resign the
speakership and his legislative seat. At the same time, the spectacle of the
exit under a cloud of yet another speaker suggests a need for drastic change in
Beacon Hill's political culture, which evidently is fertile ground in which
seeds of corruption may grow.

The downfall of the genial Mr. DiMasi is made more poignant by his positive
accomplishments as speaker, including helping to shape the landmark health
insurance law and playing a key role in blocking casinos and slot parlors.

Sadly, his accomplishments are overshadowed by ethical clouds. While he has not
been charged with any crime, he is the subject of an Ethics Commission
investigation, and two grand juries are investigating some of his associates in
cases of influence-peddling. The revelation that a longtime associate of the
speaker paid $7,500 in legal fees for Mr. DiMasi's in-laws at a time when the
associate was lobbying on Beacon Hill was perhaps the last straw.

The best that can be said about Mr. DiMasi's exit is that he made it quickly,
with an effective date of today, refraining from excessive protestations of
innocence. However, it stretches credulity to suggest, as Mr. DiMasi did, that
ethics issues did not force his hand. Whether his actions were technically legal
or not, the public cannot be expected to accept the repeated appearance of gross
improprieties by top officials.

The jockeying for the speaker's job gives scant hope for a real change. Rep.
John Rogers, who has been seeking the job for years, has his own ethical issues
involving campaign funds and mortgage payments on a vacation home. Rep. Robert
A. DeLeo, as Ways and Means chairman, may have had a hand in the same
ticket-agency legislation that figured in Mr. DiMasi's ethics woes.

With three successive speakers now having left under ethical clouds, debate over
the next one must include consideration of how to return an unimpeachable sense
of ethics and honor to legislative leadership positions.

Several measures before the Legislature will offer lawmakers a chance to
demonstrate that their commitment to ethics extends beyond lip service.

Reps. John F. Quinn and Martin J. Walsh have proposed measures aimed at
decentralizing power by imposing term limits for the House speaker, requiring
election of the speaker pro tempore and decreasing the number of votes needed to
call a caucus or special session. Rep. Jennifer M. Callahan has proposed
loosening the stranglehold of special interests by reining in lobbyists'
campaign contributions and sponsorship of junkets and other events.

Even more pressing is the need for legislative transparency and a change in what
aptly has been called the "closed-door culture" on Beacon Hill. Having exempted
itself from the state Open Meeting Law and Public Records Law, the Legislature
is virtually unanswerable to the public for the manner in which it conducts the
people's business.

Corruption thrives in the shadows, it is said, and withers in the light of day.
Clearly, the Massachusetts Legislature is in need of a cleansing dose of
sunshine.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                             July 19, 2002, Friday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 516 words


HEALTH

Funding talks

STATE and Commonwealth health ministers will meet in Darwin today to discuss the
impact of private health insurance and the ageing population on public hospital
funding. Although the meeting will look at several issues including quality and
safety initiatives, Queensland Health Minister Wendy Edmond said yesterday the
funding issue was most important.

MISSING

River clue

FORTITUDE Valley detectives believe a mystery caller may hold the key to the
disappearance of British backpacker Steven Goldsmith, 28, two years ago in
Brisbane. The caller told police a man's body had been stuffed into a shopping
trolley and dumped in the water near the Merthyr Rd jetty, 500m from Mr
Goldsmith's New Farm base. Police divers yesterday, pictured, searched a small
section of the Brisbane River at Newstead, but found nothing. Police are urging
the caller to contact them again. Police divers are expected to resume their
search on Tuesday when conditions are expected to be more favourable.

COURT

Bash charge

A GOLD Coast man remained in a critical condition last night after allegedly
being struck across the back of the head with a cricket bat by his former
flatmate. The Southport Magistrates Court heard the injured man had earlier
tried to smash his way into the accused man's unit. The court was told Jeffrey
David O'Sullivan, 33, cowered inside his Labrador unit with his wife and
children while Anthony Wayne Kinchela, 44, used a brick to smash the windows.
O'Sullivan was granted bail to appear again on October 2.

POLICE

Drug probe

A NORTH Queensland police officer is under investigation after steroids were
allegedly found in his home. Police from the Ethical Standards Command yesterday
raided the man's home at Cairns where he is based with the dog squad unit. A
Queensland Police spokesman confirmed last night that the Ethical Standards
Command and the Crime and Misconduct Commission were conducting a joint
investigation.

HOLLYWOOD

Stars split

HOLLYWOOD star Angelina Jolie, 27, yesterday confirmed she had split from her
husband of two years, Billy Bob Thornton, 46, pictured, about four months ago.
She accused him of not supporting her charity work for the United Nations, and
hinted at rumours of his affairs with other women. They had recently adopted a
child from Cambodia and were also reported to be looking at a film script
together.

ROADS

Crash chaos

AN eight-car pile-up on the David Low Way between Maroochydore and Bli Bli on
the Sunshine Coast caused traffic chaos yesterday afternoon as police and
paramedics worked to clear the scene. Police said there were no serious injuries
in the accident which happened about 4.30pm. Paramedics treated eight people for
minor injuries, and two were transported to Nambour hospital including one
patient with possible neck injuries. Police were forced to close the road for
more than an hour during the afternoon rush. About the same time yesterday
afternoon, police were called to a five-car pile-up on the Nicklin Way at
Warana, also on the Sunshine Coast. No injuries were reported.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2002 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              96 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2011 by the Pennsylvania Bar Association
                            The Pennsylvania Lawyer

                            September/October, 2011

                            The Pennsylvania Lawyer

                           33 Pennsylvania Lawyer 56

LENGTH: 1109 words

DEPARTMENT: ETHICS DIGEST

Thomas G. Wilkinson Jr.

This material has been compiled by Victoria White, PBA ethics counsel, and
edited by Thomas G. Wilkinson Jr., PBA president-elect and a past chair of the
PBA Legal Ethics and Professional Responsibility Committee. The opinions of the
committee are advisory only and are not binding on the Disciplinary Board of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania or on any court. The opinions carry such weight as
an appropriate reviewing authority may choose to give them. References to rule
numbers are to the Pennsylvania Rules of Professional Conduct. The formal and
informal opinions of the committee are posted for PBA members-only access on the
PBA website, www.pabar.org. Questions and requests for copies of opinions should
be directed to the Legal Ethics Hotline, 1-800-932-0311, Ext.2214. Requests may
also be addressed to victoria.white@pabar.org.

TEXT:


 [*56]  2011-022
Lawyer's Ethical Duties Following Death of Client

Inquirer inquired about his ethical duties following the death of a client whom
inquirer represented in connection with estate and long-term planning. The
client retained inquirer to assist in changing the beneficiary designation forms
for his life insurance policy. Inquirer obtained the necessary forms and helped
the client revoke a prior designated beneficiary and nominate two other
beneficiaries. The client signed the beneficiary designation forms but died
before the forms were mailed to the insurance company.

   The executor of the estate, who was represented by counsel, contacted
inquirer's office and asked for information about the life insurance policy,
which prompted inquirer to ask the following questions: (1) whether inquirer has
a duty to disclose the information about the life insurance policy; (2) if a
duty to disclose exists, whether inquirer must disclose this information to the
executor; (3) whether inquirer has a duty to disclose this information to the
beneficiary of the life insurance policy or the beneficiaries who would have
received under the policy; and (4) whether inquirer has a duty to try to enforce
the decedent's intent and place a claim against the life insurance proceeds to
stop them from paying out to the beneficiary.

   Citing Rule 1.6 (Confidentiality of Information), inquirer was advised that
inquirer did not have an obligation to disclose information surrounding the
deceased client's life insurance policy to anyone, including the executor, the
beneficiaries or any other third party. To the contrary, as a general rule,
inquirer had a continuing duty not to reveal information relating to
representation following the death of the client, per Rule 1.6(d). However,
inquirer would be permitted to disclose with the informed consent of the
executor, who had the authority to make decisions on behalf of the deceased
client. In addition, if inquirer determined that he was impliedly authorized to
disclose that changes were made to the beneficiary designation forms and the
disclosure would likely promote the estate plan, forestall litigation, preserve
assets and further third parties' understanding of the client's intentions, then
disclosure would be permissible.

   Inquirer was finally advised that absent authorization from the executor,
there was no duty to try to enforce the decedent's intent and place a claim
against the life insurance proceeds to stop them from paying out to the
beneficiary.

2011-023
Lawyer's Duty to Protect Third-Party Claims

Inquirer represented a personal-injury client who settled with a third-party
tortfeasor and an underinsured motorist carrier. The client's health insurance
carrier asserted a lien upon the settlement proceeds. Inquirer was in the
process of negotiating with the health insurance carrier to discount the lien
and had already distributed from his IOLTA account funds owed to the client as
well as a substantial portion of the funds claimed by the health insurance
carrier. In the process of negotiations, however, a dispute arose between the
health insurance carrier and the client concerning the value of the lien.
Inquirer asked what ethical obligations he had with regard to the disputed funds
remaining in his IOLTA account.

   Citing paragraph (f) of Rule 1.15 (Safekeeping Property), inquirer was
advised that when a lawyer is in possession of funds in which two or more
persons claim an interest, the funds must be kept separate by the lawyer until
the dispute is resolved. The lawyer must promptly distribute all portions of the
funds as to which the interests are not in dispute.

   As for resolving the dispute between the carrier and inquirer's client, it
was suggested that inquirer defer to a court, consistent with Comment [8] of
Rule 1.15, which states:

     [8] Third parties may have lawful claims against specific funds or
     other property in a lawyer's custody such as a client's creditor who
     has a lien on funds recovered in a personal injury action. A lawyer
     may have a duty under applicable law to protect such third-party
     claims against wrongful interference by the client. In such cases,
     when the third party claim is not frivolous under applicable law, the
     lawyer must refuse to surrender the property to the client unless the
     claims are resolved. A lawyer should not unilaterally assume to
     arbitrate a dispute between the client and the third party. When there
     are substantial grounds for dispute as to the Person entitled to the
     funds, the lawyer may file an action to have a court resolve the
     dispute.


2011-025
Representation Materially Limited by Lawyer's Personal Interest

Inquirer asked whether a conflict of interest existed under the following facts.
Inquirer's current client was a builder of a development that comprised multiple
townhomes and carriage houses. The builder was in a partnership arrangement with
a hospital to further develop the project. Inquirer served as a member of the
board of directors of the hospital. Inquirer was also a resident of the
development  [*57]  and, as such, was a member of the homeowners' association
(HOA).

   The HOA filed a lawsuit against several defendants, including the builder. As
a member of the HOA, inquirer was contractually required to pay his pro-rata
portion of the attorney's fees associated with the litigation. The HOA also
sought to require inquirer to testify about the construction-related problems
inquirer had with his unit, which inquirer corrected on his own.

   Inquirer was advised that under Rule 1.7 (Conflict of Interest: Current
Clients), inquirer had a conflict in representing the builder in the lawsuit
filed by the HOA. The opinion determined that inquirer's membership in the HOA,
the fact that inquirer had experienced problems with his own unit and the
contractual requirement to contribute a share of the attorney's fees were all
factors that posed a significant risk that the representation of the builder
would be materially limited by inquirer's personal responsibilities to the HOA
or a personal interest of his own. Nevertheless, inquirer could proceed with the
representation under Rule 1.7(b) if inquirer reasonably believed that he would
be able to provide competent and diligent representation to the builder and the
builder gave informed consent. If inquirer chose to proceed with the
representation, inquirer would have to decline to provide any testimony that
might support the HOA Claims against the developer and should not participate in
any judgment or award against the developer.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Insurance LawLife InsuranceGeneral OverviewInsurance LawMotor Vehicle
InsuranceCoverageUnderinsured MotoristsLiens & SetoffsReal Property
LawConstruction LawGeneral Overview


                              97 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 4, 2016 Saturday

QUITTING TOBACCO NOT SO EASY FOR INVESTORS

LENGTH: 690 words


STICKING TO ETHICAL' STOCKS CAN BE DIFFICULT

BY HOLLY BLACK

AXA'S insurance arm is to stop backing tobacco firms. The company, the world's
biggest health insurer, said that as a healthcare provider, investing in the
sector made no sense

But how many of its customers even knew the firm had around £1.6bn tied up in
tobacco?

It's worth pointing out, of course, that the move does not affect the fund
management side of Axa's business - just the money invested by its insurance
arm. Axa fund managers are still free to invest in whichever companies they
believe will deliver the best returns for savers. And many of those could
include companies which manufacture and sell cigarettes and other tobacco
products.

The Axa Framlington UK Growth fund, for example, has 3.6pc of its money in
Imperial Tobacco. These businesses have been some of the most successful
investments for savers over recent years.

The addictive nature of the customers of tobacco companies means the firms have
been able to steadily grow their share price as well as pay a chunky dividend.

Over the past ten years, British American Tobacco shares have more than tripled
from 1358p to 4182p. That would have turned a £10,000 investment into £30,795.
Imperial Brands has grown from 1670p to 3769p in that time.

Many savers may not like the idea of profiting from businesses which are making
money selling this type of product. But as some of the biggest firms in the FTSE
100 they are among the most common to be found in investment funds.

Savers have the option to pick an ethical fund, which can screen out all
companies which profit from tobacco, arms or pornography, for example. But many
people don't want a blanket ban on anything bad'.

So-called sin stocks, like it or not, have been incredibly successful
investments over the years and ruling them out entirely could impact on your
returns.

So is it possible to quit tobacco stocks without opting out of UK funds? Data
provided by Hargreaves Lansdown shows that very few UK funds do not invest in
the sector. The Lindsell Train UK Equity fund is one of them. It looks for firms
which will outperform over the long term. Some 22pc of the £2.1bn fund is in
financial services companies, including London Stock Exchange Group, and a
further 22pc in beverage businesses such as Heineken and Diageo. It has returned
90pc over the past five years.

The Unicorn UK Smaller Companies fund has 15pc of its cash in industrial
engineering businesses, 11.5pc in support services, and 11pc in construction
companies. The fund has returned 76.1pc over the past five years.

The Unicorn UK Income and F&C Mid Cap funds also don't include tobacco in their
holdings.

Finding this information is quite difficult though.

Funds publish a full list of their investments as little as once a year, and
some contain hundreds of companies, many of which you might never have heard of,
which makes checking and comparing an arduous task.

And if you pick a fund on this basis it is important to remember that it is not
part of the strategy of these funds to avoid tobacco, it is just what their
investment choices happen to be.

So if avoiding the sector is important to you it is vital to regularly check for
any changes. Of course, many savers won't be concerned about tobacco. But
perhaps they are worried about other sectors.

Franklin UK Smaller Companies has no oil companies or tobacco firms in its
portfolio. Standard Life UK Equity Income Unconstrained has no oil or pharma
stocks.

Adam Laird, investment manager at Hargreaves Lansdown, says: Ethics is a
personal subject and each saver will approach it differently - one person's
renewable wind energy is another's blot on the landscape.'

Whatever your ethics, it's crucial you check a fund before you hand over your
savings to ensure you understand where your money is going. Did you know, for
example, that the £8bn Woodford Equity Income fund has 16.6pc of its cash in
tobacco stocks? It also has 23.8pc in pharmaceutical firms.

Invesco Perpetual UK Growth has 19.7pc of its money in oil and gas companies,
while the Liontrust Macro UK Growth fund has 18.7pc of its assets in
pharmaceuticals.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2016 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                           November 7, 2009 Saturday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR;

BYLINE:

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 532 words


RESEARCH VIOLATES RIGHTS

Use of public funds to pay for embryonic stem cell research is a clear violation
of the Bill of Rights, First Amendment, ratified on Dec. 15, 1791. Prohibiting
the "free exercise of religion" is prohibited.

Many citizens respect human life from conception until natural death.
Arbitrarily demanding that their tax dollars support experimenting with one
human life to support another is a usurpation of powers.

Regent Randy Ferlic, a retired surgeon, laments the fact that hope is given to
victims of Parkinson's and diabetes for cures because there's "no real data to
do that" ("Pro-life regents face hard choice," Nov. 1).

Private embryonic stem cell research has come up emptyhanded, while ethical
research is showing promise. As for attracting top researchers to the
university, one could argue that top researchers are ethical researchers.

Nancy M. Russell, Lincoln

LOGICAL REASON NEEDED

I would appreciate someone providing a reasonable logical explanation for why
requiring all people of all ages in the United States to have a plan or
insurance to pay for health and medical care services should be objectionable?

Life's pathway is well laden with a multitude of uncertainties, with no one
knowing when he or she might be the next to accidentally fall off a grain bin,
for example, or be unexpectedly infected with an equally unexpected disease or
virus. Simple youthful age provides no immunity.

Explain why, if one is not prepared to make arrangements with an independent
insurance provider, the government should not provide the alternate public
option for the individual to pay either through premiums or taxes on their, and
not someone else's, income.

Why is having a health and medical care system wherein everyone plays, and
everyone also pays, wrong? Unless, of course, the intent is to have people
mortgaging home and soul, or leaving someone other than the receiver of the
service to pay the bill.

Stu Luttich, Geneva

PUBLIC OPTION NEEDED

If we're going to see any real reform in health care, we have to have a public
option. The public option will keep private insurance companies in check because
they won't be able to continue to hike premium prices and behave badly when they
have to compete with a public option's pricing and honest practices.

If you have Medicare, a government insurance program, then you get health care.
They don't drop you when you get sick, they don't refuse life-saving care for
you, they don't exclude pre-existing conditions, and they don't make billions of
dollars off of their customers. It's these kinds of practices by private
insurance companies that caused reform to be needed in the first place.

The public option is not only crucial to reforming health care costs and forcing
private insurers to do the right thing but should also be an available choice
for every American who is no longer willing to financially support the immoral
practices of private insurance companies that have led to the deaths of
thousands of our fellow countrymen, women and children every year.

Think about who and what you are supporting when you're against the public
option and perhaps you might reconsider your position on it.

Amy Cederlind, Lincoln

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            February 8, 2008, Friday

'Work with us';
Health-care solutions sought by professionals

BYLINE: Dr. James D. Felsen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P5A

LENGTH: 602 words


ALTHOUGH I do not always agree, I always enjoy John Warner's thoughtful
commentaries. His Jan. 25 polemic "Corrupt path: Health care system does not
belong in the marketplace" is an exception. His linear and vitriolic indictment
of organized medicine will only contribute to the serious problems facing the
U.S health-care system, not solutions.

I will not quibble with his historical facts and interpretations regarding
organized medicine's historical activities regarding "socialization" of the U.S.
health-care system. However, his premise is outdated and much like fixating upon
the merits of the facts and interpretations that led to the war in Iraq, rather
than a discussion of what actions we should now pursue to reach the best
solution.

Suffice it to say, the current policy position of the American Medical
Association strongly advocates for universal health insurance coverage for all
Americans, although not necessarily through the same nationalized government
system Professor Warner may support.

Secondly, I will not address why such universal coverage will only have a
limited impact upon fixing what is wrong with our health-care system.
Centralized political and economic solutions will not fix local ethical,
organizational, and social issues that heavily contribute to the current
system's failures and dysfunction. In my soon-to-be-released book De-Spamming -
Reforming the Health System from the Bottom Up, I discuss how such central
economic action could "hasten the meltdown." A true solution will require
communities to confront collectively and pluralistically a myriad of issues,
choices, changes and consequences in an atmosphere of compromise, consensus and
civility.

I will address Professor Warner's summary indictment of the motivation of
medical professionals who participate in organized medicine. The American
Medical Association was established to protect the public's health by assuring
the ethical practice of medicine and promoting the quality of medical education
and patient care. Many of us still participate for the same reasons.

Many of us believe that U.S. health care is the best in the world and are
legitimately fearful of certain proposed government solutions that we believe
could diminish its quality. Many university professors believe the U.S. higher
education system is as good as any in the world and would have legitimate
concerns about nationalizing it. Some of these folks may be greedy university
professors who fear that total government control could adversely affect their
prestigious status and pocketbooks. Few physicians and university professors
deny that there are serious problems with the health care and educational
systems in the United States. Most such individuals work diligently and
responsibly to try to improve them.

There are many excellent government-controlled health and educational
institutions and the government has considerable influence over many of the
activities, policies and practices of such private-sector institutions. Yet,
many of us legitimately fear the "loss of freedom" of expression, inquiry and
industry - as well as the potential mediocrity and bureaucratic barriers - that
often accompany universal government control of all institutions within any
sector. We seek a solution that will address serious system problems but not
destroy the pluralism and excellence we have enjoyed. Work with us rather than
indict us.

Felsen is a public health physician, a former Kanawha County public health
officer and a delegate from the West Virginia State Medical Association to the
American Medical Association's House of Delegates.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers


                              100 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Cross-border health biz booming; Firms help Canadians get access to U.S. medical
care

BYLINE: Tobi Cohen, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 648  words


A Buffalo-based company is the latest to get in on the medical brokering scheme
that's gaining ground in Canada as lengthy wait times force more and more people
south of the border for treatment.

Cross Border Access has been helping Canadians book appointments and negotiate
fees for a variety of procedures in upstate New York since May, putting a new
twist on an industry that's raising ethical questions and helping fuel the
private-public health care debate.

Unlike Canadian companies that have popped up offering similar services, this
American operation charges a $200-a-year membership fee and connects patients
directly with service providers.

Company founder Ed Meyer added his work in the U.S. health insurance business
gives him an advantage over his Canadian competitors.

"Because of our experience in the American health care delivery system, we can
do a better job of getting good prices and screening the provider to make sure
they are qualified," he said.

Noting U.S. health care is a free-market system, the same diagnostic imaging
scan can cost anywhere from $900 to $2,000. He said most Canadians probably
wouldn't realize that when they look to the U.S. after learning it could take
months for their CT scan, cancer treatment or knee replacement in Canada.

He's built relationships with diagnostic facilities, hospitals and physicians in
Buffalo and Niagara Falls, N.Y., and is intent on hooking up Canadians from
southwestern Ontario through the Toronto area with quality affordable care.

"We don't take any money from health care providers in the U.S. and we don't
give any money to Canadian health care providers who refer patients to us," he
added.

"Our only source of revenue is the membership fees from patients so we don't get
into any ethical grey areas about sending people to specific providers or
facilities."

Among his competitors is B.C.-based Timely Medical Alternatives -- one of the
first and most successful brokers -- which makes its money by charging a markup
and has recently waded into the controversial area of paying physicians for
referring patients. Founder Richard Baker recognizes it's a "contentious
subject," but noted it's done in the best interest of patients and doctors who
don't want the marketing fee -- about $1,000 for a hip replacement patient, for
example -- can have it donated to a medical charity of their choice.

"A lot of our business comes from doctors who refer their patients to us because
their hands are tied as far as being able to get them surgery," he said.

Baker said he's helped thousands of people secure treatment since opening for
business in 2003, most of them from Alberta, B.C., Ontario and Saskatchewan.

Noting business last year has more than doubled over 2009, he's not surprised to
learn another company has emerged with a new twist on the medical brokerage
model, but insists his service is tough to beat.

He's secured partnerships with 22 facilities in 10 states -- the cheapest of
them being those in the Midwest -- and because he pays them directly for medical
services up front, they avoid having to fill out a lot of paperwork, are happy
to get business they would not otherwise receive and therefore give him the best
rates.

In turn, he adds a "little bit more" to the patient's final bill, though he
won't divulge the exact markup nor does it appear on a patient's invoice.

An Angus Reid poll earlier this year found 40 per cent of Canadians said they
would pay out of pocket to jump the queue and 42 per cent would leave Canada to
seek treatment.

Michael McBane of the Canadian Health Coalition believes medical brokers are
"shysters" who are "exploiting vulnerable people" and who "waive" all
responsibility should something go wrong.

He argues wait times are often exaggerated and medical tourism raises concerns
about continuity of care and the appropriateness of treatments that may not be
approved in Canada.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                             June 4, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Quitting tobacco not so easy for investors;
Sticking to 'ethical' stocks can be difficult

BYLINE: Holly Black

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 679 words


AXA'S insurance arm is to stop backing tobacco firms. The company, the world's
biggest health insurer, said that as a healthcare provider, investing in the
sector made no sense But how many of its customers even knew the firm had around
£1.6bn tied up in tobacco? It's worth pointing out, of course, that the move
does not affect the fund management side of Axa's business - just the money
invested by its insurance arm. Axa fund managers are still free to invest in
whichever companies they believe will deliver the best returns for savers. And
many of those could include companies which manufacture and sell cigarettes and
other tobacco products.

The Axa Framlington UK Growth fund, for example, has 3.6pc of its money in
Imperial Tobacco. These businesses have been some of the most successful
investments for savers over recent years.

The addictive nature of the customers of tobacco companies means the firms have
been able to steadily grow their share price as well as pay a chunky dividend.

Over the past ten years, British American Tobacco shares have more than tripled
from 1358p to 4182p. That would have turned a £10,000 investment into £30,795.
Imperial Brands has grown from 1670p to 3769p in that time.

Many savers may not like the idea of profiting from businesses which are making
money selling this type of product. But as some of the biggest firms in the FTSE
100 they are among the most common to be found in investment funds.

Savers have the option to pick an ethical fund, which can screen out all
companies which profit from tobacco, arms or pornography, for example. But many
people don't want a blanket ban on anything 'bad'.

So-called sin stocks, like it or not, have been incredibly successful
investments over the years and ruling them out entirely could impact on your
returns.

So is it possible to quit tobacco stocks without opting out of UK funds? Data
provided by Hargreaves Lansdown shows that very few UK funds do not invest in
the sector. The Lindsell Train UK Equity fund is one of them. It looks for firms
which will outperform over the long term. Some 22pc of the £2.1bn fund is in
financial services companies, including London Stock Exchange Group, and a
further 22pc in beverage businesses such as Heineken and Diageo. It has returned
90pc over the past five years.

The Unicorn UK Smaller Companies fund has 15pc of its cash in industrial
engineering businesses, 11.5pc in support services, and 11pc in construction
companies. The fund has returned 76.1pc over the past five years.

The Unicorn UK Income and F&C Mid Cap funds also don't include tobacco in their
holdings.

Finding this information is quite difficult though.

Funds publish a full list of their investments as little as once a year, and
some contain hundreds of companies, many of which you might never have heard of,
which makes checking and comparing an arduous task. And if you pick a fund on
this basis it is important to remember that it is not part of the strategy of
these funds to avoid tobacco, it is just what their investment choices happen to
be.

So if avoiding the sector is important to you it is vital to regularly check for
any changes. Of course, many savers won't be concerned about tobacco. But
perhaps they are worried about other sectors.

Franklin UK Smaller Companies has no oil companies or tobacco firms in its
portfolio. Standard Life UK Equity Income Unconstrained has no oil or pharma
stocks.

Adam Laird, investment manager at Hargreaves Lansdown, says: 'Ethics is a
personal subject and each saver will approach it differently - one person's
renewable wind energy is another's blot on the landscape.' Whatever your ethics,
it's crucial you check a fund before you hand over your savings to ensure you
understand where your money is going. Did you know, for example, that the £8bn
Woodford Equity Income fund has 16.6pc of its cash in tobacco stocks? It also
has 23.8pc in pharmaceutical firms.

Invesco Perpetual UK Growth has 19.7pc of its money in oil and gas companies,
while the Liontrust Macro UK Growth fund has 18.7pc of its assets in
pharmaceuticals.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2016 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                            March 26, 2015 Thursday
                                  Mars Edition

Costco co-founder reflects on success

BYLINE: Heidi Prescott, SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 901 words


SOUTH BEND -- Until he can find his original business plan from the early 1980s,
Jim Sinegal, the co-founder and former chief executive officer of Costco
Wholesale, is forced to admit that he once thought the company had limited
potential.

In fact, Sinegal once thought the company would ultimately grow to 12 stores.
That's it.

Considering Costco now operates 700 stores in 42 states and 10 countries and
reported nearly $110 billion in sales last year, the Pittsburgh native couldn't
have been more conservative in his early estimates.

Sinegal's truthfulness about those early days drew laughter from several dozen
students and faculty on Wednesday at the University of Notre Dame, where Sinegal
accepted the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh Award in Business Ethics.

The award is presented annually to a company that demonstrates exemplary ethical
, environmental, social and governmental practices.

Costco, which offers employees an $11.50 starting wage as well as health
insurance and retirement planning, is often referred to as a leader in ethical
business behavior.

"We knew we didn't want to make money off the backs of our employees. We wanted
to do the right thing. You can have the loftiest goals, but you won't exist for
long without ethics," Sinegal said. "But we realize our luck could have gone the
other way."

Sinegal sat down with The Tribune following the awards presentation. Here is the
edited interview:

Q. When you co-founded the company, did you decide to provide employees with
better pay and benefits because it was the right thing to do? Or was it a
business decision?

A. It's clearly a combination of the two. It is the right thing to do, but more
than being altruistic, it's good business. Our people stay with us and become
the nucleus of our organization, and the managers worked their way up through
the system and they wouldn't have stayed with us if we hadn't provided good jobs
along the way. Do you feel good about it? Of course. It's satisfying. We saw
that people liked working here and it was rewarding that they could afford to
live well, but we weren't as focused on that in the beginning.

Q. Where was your focus?

A. We were focused on the fact that we were starting a new business and had to
succeed. If we didn't watch ourselves we were going to get killed. In the
beginning, everything was a threat. There's a lot of stomach lining you lose,
worrying whether or not you'd succeed. The pressure starts to add up that makes
you want to succeed. But it has been a lot of fun along the way.

Q. You said a lot of luck along the way. What kind of luck?

A. We were about ready to open our first warehouse in Seattle when we got a
letter from the city. They were going to tear down a wooden bridge about 100
yards south of our building and the road would be closed to through traffic for
18 months. But part of the reason we were there was the amount of traffic on
that road and the ease of getting to our store. I called the city manager and
said something really intelligent like, "You can't do this." And they said, "Of
course we can." But there were delays that gave us enough time for us to get our
feet on the ground and get established. If they had shut it down, I don't know
what in the world we would have done. You look back and I still get the shakes.
It would have been horrible. We've had more good breaks than bad. If you're
successful and you don't think that luck had something to do with it, you're a
fool.

Q. Did you ever dream you'd receive as many accolades for ... and think you'd be
recognized as a leader in retail?

A. The purpose of it was not to be a leader; the purpose of it was to hire the
best people and you hire the best people by providing good jobs. That we felt
was important. We only thought we were going to have 12 stores so we weren't
looking that far down the road. We were working hard to build what we had into a
good business. We wanted our customers to think highly of us, and we wanted them
to feel confident in shopping with us and like we were always going to do the
right thing relative to them.

Q. What do you think of Wal-Mart's decision to raise wages? What affect could it
have in retail?

A. I think this whole thing with minimum wage clearly is not going to get done
at a government level, although there has been a grass-roots movement across the
nation and many states have a higher minimum wage than federal. I think you're
going to have groups that continue to push for it and I think it's something
that will be favorable and I applaud Wal-Mart for doing that. Wal-Mart has taken
their wage up to $9 an hour. Our average wage of working on the floor is over
$22, so there's still a big enough spread that it's not having an effect on us.
But we're mindful of watching every market we're in and looking at wages on a
continual basis.

Q. You entered retirement in 2011. How did it feel?

A. It wasn't scary, it was more apprehensive. I do go in the office every day
and I try to go into a Costco every day. But in a different role. I'm there
because I like to be there. Because I love it. But I don't give any orders now.

Q. Is it true you still have more than 200 Kirkland button-down shirts hanging
in your closet?

A. I tell everyone this is a Kirkland Signature shirt, but you shouldn't judge
it on the way it looks on me. I have to clear them out every now and then. My
wife tells me I have to get rid of some so we give them to the Goodwill.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 26, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Special Doctor-Patient Relationship

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 974 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Patients Are Not Consumers'' (column, April 22):

Bravo to Paul Krugman. As a physician for 44 years, I have seen the sick person
seeking medical care transformed from a patient to a consumer and, like Mr.
Krugman, I have been sickened by this.

Raised in a family of doctors, I was fed on medical ethics. Vulnerable patients
rely on the ethical principles of their physicians. They should never have to
fear that their physician will look at them only as consumers of the commodity
called health care: fair game from whom the largest possible payment should be
extracted.

Most physicians are motivated first by the desire to do good, to help their
patients, not by greed. We will do more to help the situation by appealing to
their ethical principles rather than to their business prowess.

It is time for us to join the rest of the industrialized world and treat health
care as a social need instead of as a commodity. A Medicare-for-all national
health plan would transform the patient back to what he is: a person in need of
care, not a ''consumer.'' The Independent Payment Advisory Board created under
the new health care law would fit such a plan.

ELIZABETH R. ROSENTHAL Larchmont, N.Y., April 22, 2011

To the Editor:

Paul Krugman's column answers a fundamental question: Is health care a right,
like elementary education, or is it a privilege for those who can afford it?

RACHEL FRADKIN New York, April 22, 2011

To the Editor:

While patients may not be consumers and the Independent Payment Advisory Board
is undoubtedly necessary, I disagree with Paul Krugman that bringing consumer
choice to health care is a bad idea. We cannot rely upon the government alone --
and we certainly cannot rely upon insurers and providers -- to rein in spiraling
health care costs.

We need to give patients a role in the process of reducing costs, supported by
three essential types of information: the efficacy of various treatments and
procedures, the quality of the providers performing them and the difference in
prices charged by these providers. Only by bringing informed and knowledgeable
patients into the conversation will we have any hope of controlling costs
without sacrificing quality, health and patient satisfaction.

MICHAEL G. PARKER Chapel Hill, N.C., April 23, 2011

To the Editor:

Have you ever tried to do ''comparison shopping'' for medical services? I have,
and I couldn't get one single hospital or provider to answer my simple question:
''How much do you charge for a mammogram?''

Can you imagine ''comparison shopping'' for something as complex as surgery? The
only ones advertising prices for procedures are plastic surgeons and other
providers of purely optional medical services.

Doctors and hospitals charge high rates because they know the insurance
companies are going to knock their payments down by 50 percent or more. Adding a
layer of for-profit to the cost of medical care, as suggested by the Republican
budget plan, is obviously not going to bring down the cost.

KATHLEEN HOPKINS Oak Park, Ill., April 22, 2011

To the Editor:

Thank you to Paul Krugman for pointing out what was once obvious, that the
patient-physician relationship should be a sacred one that transcends all the
financial issues that have come to burden it.

Intelligent rationing is not only necessary when dealing with large populations
to allow for the fair distribution of limited resources to achieve the greatest
good for the greatest number, but even has a role when dealing with individual
patients. Many of the latest diagnostic and therapeutic advances can potentially
harm patients and must be used only when there is a reasonable chance that they
will benefit the patient.

We must not forget the great value -- diagnostically and therapeutically -- that
a physician can provide through the personal and sometimes magical interaction
with a patient, unencumbered by financial or political forces.

MITCHELL A. ADLER New York, April 22, 2011

The writer is an assistant professor of clinical medicine at the New York
University School of Medicine.

To the Editor:

As an emergency physician, I fully agree with Paul Krugman on consumer-based
health care in America. Although I was trained in emergency care to deal with
the sickest patients, much of my time is spent seeing less sick people who find
emergency care a convenience.

Physicians are powerless to change this culture of entitlement because hospitals
continually put ''patient satisfaction'' above practicing evidence-based
medicine. It is sad that ''satisfaction'' often means meeting consumer
expectations by prescribing unnecessary antibiotics or performing radiography
for ''customers'' who won't be satisfied otherwise. Many ''customers'' want all
possible services all the time. This convenience comes at an incalculable cost.

We do our best to do what's right, but we are constantly forced to choose
between ''customer satisfaction'' and evidence-based, cost-effective medicine.
More worrisome is that this consumer mind-set may play a large role in
bankrupting our nation.

ANTHONY J. DOWIDOWICZ Saranac Lake, N.Y., April 22, 2011

To the Editor:

Paul Krugman's apt critique of Republicans' misconstrual of medical patients as
''consumers'' points toward a more pervasive cultural pathology.

Whereas formerly we were patients, parents, neighbors, citizens, congregants and
so on, now in most of life we're just consumers. This crimped conception flows
directly from the modern American propensity to deify the free market.

While reducing us to consumers, free market fundamentalism also corrodes,
corrupts or demonizes all other basic social instruments, like effective
government programs and regulations.

The deification of the free market cannot coexist with a robust concern for the
common good and a dignified regard for what it means to be human.

RICHARD E. SCLOVE Amherst, Mass., April 22, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YVETTA FEDOROVA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                January 17, 1997

Sir Colin sticks up for the layperson

SECTION: Issue 1263, Pg.6

LENGTH: 462 words


'I can't see a bigger issue than genetic science and its ethical implications
now that the cold war is over.'

So says Nottingham University vice chancellor Sir Colin Campbell, who this month
takes on the role of chairman of the Government's new Human Genetics Advisory
Commission.

Responsible for advising the Government and charged with taking on board public
opinion, the group will first meet in February. It is expected to draw some
conclusions within a year.

The task is an exciting challenge for legal philosopher Sir Colin. 'I think it
is probably the most difficult thing facing us. By the year 2007, human genetics
would have changed medicine, science, work in universities, employment,
attitudes to people with different attributes, attitudes towards pregnancy and
diseases. It may have thrown up new treatments. It's fascinating. The range of
issues is immense and intimidating.

'Very often science advances are neutral,' he added. 'It is the way we use them
which is important. We will be worrying about the implications. The remit here
is to advise the Government and to explain to the public.'

The group will consider the social, ethical and economic consequences of
developments in human genetics in relation to public health, insurance and
employment, and debate genetic engineering and testing.

Sir Colin is a veteran of such public bodies, having already served on the Human
Fertilisation and Embryology Authority and chaired the Medical Workforce
Standing Advisory Committee and the Food Advisory Committee. He holds that
philosophising in the real world is more difficult than debating in a university
setting.

'University tutorials are full of clever people, but nothing is at stake,' he
said. 'When you try and do it in the real world, it is much more difficult. I
find it very interesting to get involved in things which are not totally
academic. I enjoy the experience. I think this thing is very very difficult and
therefore very very interesting. When I was asked to chair this commission I
could not say no.'

His new role is totally voluntary, adds Sir Colin, while the committee, which
includes scientists, industrialists and broadcaster Moira Stuart, is running on
a 'tiny' Pounds 200,000 budget.

'I would like to think we will talk to the public and say really what is
happening is as follows,' said Sir Colin who believes he was chosen because he
is not a scientist and has experience in dealing with scientists.

'I think mostly we will identify what scientists anticipate happening and then
write documents in plain English. Scientists inevitably speak using jargon. We
need a body made up of laymen so normal people like you and me can understand.
Only then can people take part in the debate.'

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1997 TSL Education Limited


                              105 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 14, 1995 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

AMA pushes for doctors to block reforms

BYLINE: JODIE BROUGH in Canberra

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 543 words


The health insurance reforms of the Minister for Health, Dr Lawrence, face a
serious challenge after the Australian Medical Association (AMA) began a
political campaign yesterday for doctors to reject health-care contracts with
private insurers.

The AMA accused the Government of opening the door to a United States-style
managed-care system which would allow health funds to interfere in clinical
decisions, drive up premiums and create an ethical nightmare for doctors.

The AMA's Federal president, Dr David Weedon, said the result of managed care in
the US was a rationing of health care, with patients pushed out of hospital
"quicker and sicker".

He announced a major radio and advertising campaign against the Lawrence
legislation, which comes into effect next month and is intended to arrest the
sharp decline in private hospital cover by reducing costs to patients.

Dr Lawrence rejected the AMA's claims last night, saying the legislation would
not introduce a US-style system. "The AMA are clearly wasting their time and
money campaigning against something that's not going to happen," she said
through a spokeswoman.

Dr Lawrence was backed by the Australian Health Insurance Association's chief,
Mr Russell Schneider, who said any suggestion that doctors would allow financial
considerations to lead to a reduction in the quality of care to patients was a
"slur" on the ethics of the profession.

The Government wants to allow private insurers to negotiate in advance what
doctors and hospitals will charge for their services, creating market pressure
to stem costs and letting patients know exactly what charges will be before they
enter hospital.

The private hospitals have supported the legislation, which would, if the
Government's theories are correct, help reduce costs for patients and make
private insurance more attractive.

But if doctors refuse en masse to undertake contracts, the Government's strategy
to ease the pressure on the public health system will be stymied, setting the
scene for a major battle.

The Government argues that doctors will not be compelled to take up a contract
arrangement with an insurer and that it will not be possible for insurers to
interfere in clinical decisions because insurers will have no right to prior
knowledge of what

care is agreed between doctors and their patients.

But the AMA, supported by the Australian Doctors' Fund and the Council of
Procedural Specialists, suggested that the legislation would inevitably be
changed to be more like the US model.

Dr Weedon said managed-care packages were likely to be offered in the coming
months.

"Funds offering managed-care packages will basically become health care harlots
- offering packages that are superficially attractive but are fraught with
clinical and ethical dangers," he said. People who agreed to managed-care
packages faced a reduced choice of doctor and hospital.

"The entire concept will push up the cost of premiums, driving even more people
out of private insurance and onto public hospital waiting lists," Dr Weedon
said.

He said the AMA's campaign had been designed not to contravene the Trade
Practices Act, after the Trade Practices Commission warned last month that
doctor groups opposing the legislation risked prosecution for secondary
boycotts.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1995 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2002 The Catholic University of America
                  Journal of Contemporary Health Law & Policy

                                   Fall, 2002

                      18 J. Contemp. Health L. & Pol'y 583

LENGTH: 2973 words

INTRODUCTION: INTRODUCTORY REMARKS

NAME: Marshall Breger* and Riccardo Pozzo*

BIO: * Professor of Law, Columbus School of Law, The Catholic University of
America; B.A., M.A., J.D., University of Pennsylvania.

* Assoc. Professor, School of Philosophy, The Catholic University of America;
Ph.D., Universita at des Saarlandes; Habilitation, Universita at Trier.

TEXT:
 [*583]

   The difference between the German and the American approach to health care is
grounded in each nation's concept of state responsibility. Germany has provided
its citizens universal access since the late nineteenth century, while the
United States, until recently, has relied on individual initiative and voluntary
assistance. The conference on "The Ethics of Health Care: An Assessment in
Germany and the United States," that took place on October 4, 2001 at the
Columbus School of Law on the Catholic University Campus in Washington, D.C.,
explored how philosophical and legal traditions in each country affect current
health care issues. The conference covered topics such as universal access and
the practical challenge of providing some form of health care to the unemployed,
patient's bill of rights, emerging technologies of DNA manipulation, soaring
costs of hospitals and physicians, and various resource-driven allocation
issues. By highlighting the ethical principles that underlie each issue, the
conference was a forum for open discussion of life-related values in our health
care system.

   This interdisciplinary project profited from an enthusiastic synergy at
Catholic University among the Deans of the Columbus School of Law, Robert Destro
and subsequently Douglas Kmiec, the Dean of the School of Nursing, Ann Marie
Brooks, and the Dean of the School of Philosophy, Kurt Pritzl, O.P. The German
Embassy co-sponsored the program and their counselors for the social and labor
policy section, G<um u>nther Horzetzky, and for the scientific section, Karl
Wolin, made the setting up of a truly comparative approach between the American
and the German health care systems possible. Bayer Inc., USA and Bayer
Aktiengesellschaft, Germany generously supported the conference financially from
both sides of the Atlantic each with a matching grant. Moreover, we wish to
thank Jude Dougherty, Dean Emeritus of the School of Philosophy for his
conceptual guidance and Ursula Weide, a  [*584]  graduate of the Columbus School
of Law, for her insights and initial organizational planning. n1 Finally, our
special thanks go to the Honorable Thomas Scully of the United States Department
of Health and Human Services for the engaging keynote address he gave during
lunch on October 4, 2001. To the above named, and to the speakers that accepted
our invitation, we wish to express our heartfelt thanks.

   Without any pretence of completeness, we planned the conference around five
panels. The first of which, obviously, was to be focused on the leading
principle of the German approach, namely universal access to health care, the
second on the ethical implications of emerging technologies, the third on a
comparative view of health care economics in Germany and the United States, the
fourth on the wide spectrum of allocation ethics, while the fifth, conclusive,
panel should have provided an assessment involving legal, philosophical, and
theological points of view.

   The first panel was opened by the Honorable Rainer Schlegel, Justice at the
Federal Social Court in Kassel, who outlined the basic structure of the German
statutory health insurance, which by and large has been retained unchanged since
its introduction by Chancellor Bismarck in 1883 as the first of three social
epoch-making insurance laws. In 1884, followed the law about workmen's
compensation (statutory occupational accident insurance) and, in 1889, the law
on invalidity insurance and on retirement insurance. In 1927, as a reaction to
several economic crises, unemployment insurance was added. Eventually, the
statutory long-term care insurance of 1994, introduced by Chancelor Kohl,
proffered the last act in the German system of social insurance, as we presently
understand it. Justice Schlegel stressed that the German system is based on the
"in-kind and service principle," that states that the health insurance funds are
meant to provide all citizens with the necessary services and in-kind benefits.
To this end, the health insurance funds conclude contracts for citizens with
associations of doctors, dentists and pharmacists and with hospital owners and
other service organizations, so that the doctors, hospitals, pharmacists etc. do
not receive payment directly from the citizens, but rather, payments are made by
the health insurance funds to doctors' associations, which redistribute the
money received from health insurance funds to their  [*585]  members. The
citizens do not pay the doctor directly. They do not even know how much their
treatment has cost.

   M. Gregg Bloche, of Georgetown University's Law Center, noted that in both
the United States and Germany there are different policies of egalitarian
departure in different social policy areas. What are the appropriate ethic and
policy responses, asked Bloche, to growing evidence of racial and ethnic
disparities in the health care that American and Europeans receive? And what are
the ethics of spending on health care versus education, environmental and other
social policy areas that appear to affect health and human welfare to a much
greater extent than does health care?

   Tim Jost of Washington and Lee University's Law School observed that the most
important health policy issue facing the United States today is how to comply
with the German principle, namely, how to provide universal access to health
care for all Americans? The German social health insurance program has for well
over a century provided a model of how a nation can achieve universal access to
health care. It is, however, impossible to provide universal access to health
care without having rationing of its availability. Even the Germans faced with
continuing increases in their national health budget are being forced to address
this issue.

   In the United States, health care is rationed increasingly through managed
care. The practical ramification of this, however, is that even those who are
fully covered by health insurance sometimes cannot get the care they need. The
two managed care patients' rights bills currently pending in the United States
Congress address the concern of how to control this rationing.

   The panel on the ethical implications of emerging technologies was opened by
Edmund Pellegrino of Georgetown University's Center of Clinical Bioethics, who
spoke on stem cell research as a paradigm case for balancing science, ethics and
politics. Given the challenge of biotechnology, how do we use, asked Pellegrino,
our technological prowess humanely, wisely and generously without being so
overshadowed by its powers that we become its slaves? How, in essence, can we
place biotechnology within ethical constraints without losing its therapeutic
potential? How do we do so in a democratic, morally and pluralistically divided
society, driven by market forces and a yearning for immortality through
technology? Pellegrino envisaged three fundamental questions. First, what are
the scientific facts and how secure are they? Second, what fundamental ethical
issues are at stake? Third, what are the implications of questions one and two
for politico-economic policy? It is clear that ethical  [*586]  considerations
should guide both the use of science and the economic and political uses of that
science. The various ideological positions about stem cell research, to which we
are currently exposed, make it clear that haste, overselling of results and
political pressure can lead to more rather than less conflict. The moral weight
on legislators is consequently heavy and inescapable.

   Gerald Schatz of the Graduate School of the Foundation for Advanced Education
in the Sciences raised questions pertaining to health records privacy and
confidentiality. Does the right to privacy, he asked, refer to the right of the
person to be left alone in ordinary circumstances, to be free from arbitrary
intrusion into one's affairs by government and by other persons? Privacy may be
a constitutional or statutory protection. In the United States, to the extent
that privacy protections exist, they are enforceable in the courts in civil
litigation and due process claims. Confidentiality refers to safeguarding
privacy, so that records may be subject to varying degrees of confidentiality,
to protect the privacy of the persons who are the subjects of those records.

   From the panel on comparative health care economics we are pleased to print
the paper by Robert Moffit of the Heritage Foundation in Washington, D.C. Moffit
pointed out that the core of the discussion is how to deal with rationing within
the frame work of the health care delivery system currently in the United
States, keeping in mind the most important questions about right, wrong, good,
bad, virtue and vice. This issue is central for health care, because personal
decision-making is deeply rooted and has an impact on the overall quality of our
society. The United States has developed a unique system of health care
financing and delivery, quite unlike most other systems in the world. It has
created, through the powerful instrument of incentives in the Internal Revenue
Code, an employer-based health care system, which allows unlimited tax relief
for the purchase of health insurance on one and only one condition, namely that
one obtains one's health insurance through one's employer. The most important
thing is that the decision to give unlimited tax relief for the purchase of
health insurance through the employer has nothing to do with health care policy.
Moffit argued that there are no compelling floor speeches on the House or the
Senate that Americans should henceforth and forever more have a monopoly of
employer-based health insurance exclusively favored by unlimited federal tax
breaks.

   The section on allocation ethics was opened by Alfred Miller of The George
Washington University's School of Public Health and of The Catholic University
of America's School of Philosophy. He remarked that in public health issues,
uncritical extrapolation of approaches appropriate  [*587]  for individual
ethical behavior to problems of social justice clouds the issues at stake, hides
the true nature of the problem and hinders developing realistic solutions.
Achieving social justice depends instead on the historical development of an
entire society and requires both long-term strategies and concerted, collective
action to redress inequities. Allocation and its control have to be understood
in terms of the overall system that provides the services and how it developed
under the influence of political and other collective actions and social
changes. For this reason, concluded Miller, a comparison of the United States
and German health care systems and the ways in which they provide and allocate
services constitute a case in point of how subtle but powerful differences in
the structure of the systems as a whole profoundly influence the outcome in
terms of availability and cost.

   Heidi Nadolski of the National Association of Statutory Health Physicians in
Cologne spoke on budgeting and rationing in the German health care system. Due
to the rapidly rising health care expenditure in Germany a number of
cost-containment efforts have been made since 1977. The aim of all German health
care reform bills is to bring the growth of expenditure in line with the growth
of wages and salaries of the sickness fund members. Since the German health care
system is mostly financed by employers and employees in the form of payroll
deductions, a rise in the monthly contribution rate leads to higher wage costs
that harm the competitiveness of the German economy. One important element of
the last German Health Care Reform was the introduction of a fixed budget that
limits the amount of money that comes into the system. Until now, physicians
were collectively held liable for budget excesses pertaining to drugs and
remedies. This led to compulsory savings and very cautious prescription
behavior. Nadolski's thesis is that in Germany rationing is mainly hidden as a
result of the government's budgeting policy. This raises several ethical
problems, and Nadolski pointed out many examples of hidden rationing in Germany.

   The final panel was opened by Anton Rauscher, the chairman of the Catholic
Social Sciences Center in M<um o>nchengladbach, who contributed remarks on the
family as health care provider. The agrarian society was based on the model of
an "extended family," in which several generations lived and worked together,
functioning as a natural institution of social security for its members. Urban
industrial workers, however, have no such social security network. As workers
left farms and villages for the cities, old family ties dwindled and eventually
disappeared. In recent years, economists have proposed an additional private
insurance system for the family, similar to that in the United States. Germany
certainly needs  [*588]  reforms to sustain the system and preserve the quality
of care it offers, but it must also preserve the substance of its social health
insurance system for the family in order to stabilize it in a rapidly changing
industrial world.

   Roberto Dell'Oro of Georgetown University's Center of Clinical Bioethics
spoke on the market ethos and the integrity of health care. He explored the
so-called "integrity and compliance programs," that have proliferated in today's
health care environment. For those who do not distinguish the delivery of health
care from ordinary commerce, integrity and compliance are complementary. The
organization that behaves so as to achieve its commercial purpose, i.e., that
behaves efficiently, productively, profitably, has integrity. With relation to
the health care industry, the promise of the market is to increase competition
and to rationalize the system without necessarily altering the fundamentally
moral nature of the clinical exchange or undermining the professional standards
entailed. Many questions remain both in relation to the ability of the market to
deliver what it promises and in relation to its willingness to save the
intrinsic morality of medicine. However, several schools of thought make us
aware of the social tendencies inherent in the absolutization of the market: the
tendency to neutralize non-economic values such as compassion, empathy, care,
concern for the common good, to reduce interpersonal relations to mechanistic
exchange, and to replace the experience of gratuitousness and esthetic
appreciation with the concern for the production of material goods.
"Economists," concluded Dell'Oro, "are becoming increasingly sensitive to both
anthropological presuppositions and broad social consequences of the market."

   Daniel Maher of Catholic University's School of Philosophy raised questions
about the traditional understanding of the fiduciary responsibility physicians
have to their patients. Such a relation implies that human beings are not
exclusively self-interested and are in fact capable of rising above
self-interest. The fact that managed care appeals to the self-interest of
physicians does not deny that physicians are capable of generous actions.
Physicians themselves have for centuries relied upon a complex understanding of
human nature. Managed care, on the other hand, appears to replace the concern
for patient welfare with the concern for fiscal welfare. It is probably more
accurate to say that managed care holds both these concerns in tension but
reverses the hierarchy.

   The last word was given by William Wagner of Catholic University's Columbus
School of Law, who contributed to the relation between constitutional values and
health care issues. "A variety of economic, social and political causes," said
Wagner, "have introduced a new era in health care." The pressure of market
forces and of changes in the economic  [*589]  forms of organizing the delivery
of health care services is calling for the renewed formulation and promulgation
of the most basic ethical principles and assumptions. Rapid integration in
medical technologies makes necessary specific and detailed answers to concrete
moral dilemmas. The litigation of disputes in the area of health care alone will
force our courts to adjudicate the role of constitutional values as a basis for
the ethics of health care. Gradually, an ethics of health care sanctioned by law
will emerge, whether for good or ill. In the process, a new interpretation of
our constitutional values will also take shape for better or worse. In the
constitutional order of the United States we have a fundamental problem in
confronting this challenge. By contrast, the German system assumes that the
social state provides for its members participation and a minimal standard of
living including health care, and society as a whole has a responsibility for
distributing so that all can participate. Germany has something very close to
universal health care. If the United States aspires to it, we should note that
this is not as a requirement of justice but rather is a socially useful
aspiration akin to the benefits offered under Franklin Delano Roosevelt's New
Deal. We should tend to pursue it on that basis.

   The ongoing debate about the American approach to health insurance has
brought fundamental issues of justice and of economic efficiency to the
forefront. It is no wonder that both scholars and practitioners have sought out
insights of other industrialized nations to ascertain the problems and promises
of their "national" approach to health care. This conference is stated to be
seen as part of that broader effort that we hope will serve to illuminate the
policy debate.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawActions Against Healthcare WorkersGeneral OverviewHealthcare
LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  The editors of the Journal would like to join Professor Breger and
Professor Pozzo in thanking Dr. Weide, a graduate of the Catholic University of
America School of Law, whose insights and initial organizational planning
advanced the success of the conference on Ethics of Health Care: An Assessment
in Germany and the United States held at the CUA Law School on October 4, 2001.


                              107 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                            March 31, 2005 Thursday

Doctors warned on blood tests

BYLINE: Brendan Roberts and Sue Dunlevy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 344 words


DOCTORS will be financially rewarded every time they order a blood test through
their new pathology co-operative.

The Health Insurance Commission, which runs Medicare, has approved Diagnostic
Medical Co-operative.

But the Australian Medical Association has urged general practitioners to be
cautious before paying to join.

AMA vice-president Dr Mukesh Haikerwal, who has a practice in Altona North,
warned the scheme could raise ethical concerns.

"The ethical framework needs to be considered heavily -- there should be no
encouragement for doctors to use pathology tests unnecessarily," he said.
"Doctors who enter the program should make their participation clear to patients
who require pathology tests.

"And the choice on who handles the tests must lie with the patients."

Dr Haikerwal said specialist pathologists were still needed to assess pathology
results.

"We are not trained in pathology and a professional pathologist needs to be in
charge," he said.

The insurance commission will accredit doctors who become shareholders in DMC as
pathology practitioners.

The doctors will earn around $14-$27 every time they order a full blood count on
a patient.

They will also be paid for ordering other blood tests and tests on urine, stool
and other samples.

The move has enraged established pathology companies who benefit from the $1.6
billion in Medicare rebates paid for medical tests.

It raises serious ethical questions about whether doctors in the co-operative
have a conflict of interest and may be enticed into ordering unnecessary
pathology tests to make money.

The Royal Australasian College of Pathologists is concerned that GPs who have
not done a six-year specialist course in pathology will be approved as pathology
practitioners by the insurance commission so they can claim Medicare rebates.

A spokesman for federal Human Services Minister Joe Hockey said the co-operative
had been given approval by the insurance commission under existing legislation.

The Government would be monitoring the situation, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              108 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 21, 2011

Stewardship of health care more than mere juggling act

BYLINE: AMA Leader Commentary. By Ardis Dee Hoven, MD, Posted March 21, 2011.

SECTION: OPINION; AMA Leader Commentary Vol. 54 No. 12

LENGTH: 914 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


As physicians, we have an ethical responsibility to manage wisely the health
care resources with which we are entrusted.

Being a good steward has never been simple. It requires dedication, knowledge
and constant awareness to make the right decisions at any given time under
varying circumstances.

It is no easy task to do this in a way that treats everyone fairly and provides
the best possible medical care, given disparities in insurance coverage, access
to care, technology and many other issues. And while responsibility to
individual patients should be paramount as we consider the use of resources, we
also have an obligation to patients in general.

Today, with U.S. health care spending almost double that of other industrialized
countries and more than 16% of our own gross domestic product, stewardship has
become even more of a juggling act.

Granted, the advent of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the
budget debates across the nation make staying on top of the system a moving
target. However, that is the milieu in which we practice medicine and do
business. And since physician orders and recommendations play a significant role
in determining what services and how many services patients receive, these
decisions affect the cost of health care -- and ultimately access to care.

At the same time, individual physicians have no control over many of the other
factors that drive health care costs. Patient expectations and demands affect
costs. The high prices of devices, drugs and hospital and professional services
are also significant factors in overall costs. Medical liability costs, which we
hope will be brought under control by pending legislation in this Congress, are
also a major contributor.

Additionally, population trends -- things like the epidemics of obesity,
diabetes and our rapidly aging populace -- all place their own demands on the
resource pool.

And when the provisions of the health reform law kick in in 2014, millions more
Americans will have access to health insurance, and the challenge to practicing
physicians will be enormous.

Because stewardship is such a significant issue today, the AMA Council on
Ethical and Judicial Affairs is developing guidance to support physicians in
making fair, prudent, cost-conscious decisions that meet the needs of individual
patients and help to ensure availability of health care for others.

In the meantime, as we make our way through the daily minefield of expectations,
resources, finances, judgments and time, here are some things to keep in mind:

     ·     First, we must always ensure that treatment recommendations are based
          on medical need. Physicians should not order, recommend or participate
          in care that does not offer reasonable likelihood of medical benefit.
     ·     We need to be sure that we recommend only interventions or services
          that in the physician's best professional judgment will substantially
          benefit the patient without placing undue burdens on health care
          resources.
     ·     Existing guidelines are a good place to start in making a
          professional judgment about whether the benefit of a proposed
          intervention justifies the cost.
     ·     When probable outcomes are substantially similar, the prudent course
          is to give preferences to lower cost treatment options over higher
          cost treatment options.
     ·     Listen to your patients and work with them to identify their goals
          for care. Help patients and their families form realistic expectations
          about whether a particular intervention is likely to achieve their
          goals.
     ·     Remember that communication is an important aspect of medical care.
          Be transparent about alternatives, including disclosing when resource
          constraints play a role in decision-making.
     ·     If it becomes an issue, make reasonable efforts to resolve persistent
          disagreement about whether a costly intervention is worthwhile. This
          may include consulting with a colleague, ethics committee or other
          appropriate resource.


This is not to say that anyone should practice unrealistic or one-size-fits-all
medicine. Patients are always individual, and judgment is always a part of the
mix. Physicians have a responsibility for the course of care they deem most
appropriate for their individual patients based on patients' unique clinical
circumstances -- including forgoing interventions dictated by guidelines when
the patient's situation warrants.

Beyond physicians' individual decisions made on a day-to-day basis, medicine as
a profession must play a stewardship role in managing the rising cost of health
care in America.

As an example, overall medical culture should be such that a physician can be
confident that the colleague to whom a patient is referred also will be
judicious in making recommendations about that patient's care.

So important is it that today's physicians be knowledgeable about health care
costs and how their own behavior can affect overall health care spending, the
University of Michigan's medical school, for one, now offers an elective class
on our health care system -- and the class is always filled.

Likewise, any understanding of the system should be buoyed by increased
transparency. Health care administrators and organizations must make a practice
of making accounting costs transparent so that physicians can exercise
well-informed stewardship.

Good stewardship has never been simple. And as we go forward, how we manage
those resources entrusted to us will become even more difficult -- and ever more
important -- as we serve the medical needs of a growing American population.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 21, 2011

Stewardship of health care more than mere juggling act

BYLINE: AMA Leader Commentary. By Ardis Dee Hoven, MD, Posted March 21, 2011.

SECTION: OPINION; AMA Leader Commentary Vol. 54 No. 12

LENGTH: 914 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


As physicians, we have an ethical responsibility to manage wisely the health
care resources with which we are entrusted.

Being a good steward has never been simple. It requires dedication, knowledge
and constant awareness to make the right decisions at any given time under
varying circumstances.

It is no easy task to do this in a way that treats everyone fairly and provides
the best possible medical care, given disparities in insurance coverage, access
to care, technology and many other issues. And while responsibility to
individual patients should be paramount as we consider the use of resources, we
also have an obligation to patients in general.

Today, with U.S. health care spending almost double that of other industrialized
countries and more than 16% of our own gross domestic product, stewardship has
become even more of a juggling act.

Granted, the advent of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the
budget debates across the nation make staying on top of the system a moving
target. However, that is the milieu in which we practice medicine and do
business. And since physician orders and recommendations play a significant role
in determining what services and how many services patients receive, these
decisions affect the cost of health care -- and ultimately access to care.

At the same time, individual physicians have no control over many of the other
factors that drive health care costs. Patient expectations and demands affect
costs. The high prices of devices, drugs and hospital and professional services
are also significant factors in overall costs. Medical liability costs, which we
hope will be brought under control by pending legislation in this Congress, are
also a major contributor.

Additionally, population trends -- things like the epidemics of obesity,
diabetes and our rapidly aging populace -- all place their own demands on the
resource pool.

And when the provisions of the health reform law kick in in 2014, millions more
Americans will have access to health insurance, and the challenge to practicing
physicians will be enormous.

Because stewardship is such a significant issue today, the AMA Council on
Ethical and Judicial Affairs is developing guidance to support physicians in
making fair, prudent, cost-conscious decisions that meet the needs of individual
patients and help to ensure availability of health care for others.

In the meantime, as we make our way through the daily minefield of expectations,
resources, finances, judgments and time, here are some things to keep in mind:

     ·     First, we must always ensure that treatment recommendations are based
          on medical need. Physicians should not order, recommend or participate
          in care that does not offer reasonable likelihood of medical benefit.
     ·     We need to be sure that we recommend only interventions or services
          that in the physician's best professional judgment will substantially
          benefit the patient without placing undue burdens on health care
          resources.
     ·     Existing guidelines are a good place to start in making a
          professional judgment about whether the benefit of a proposed
          intervention justifies the cost.
     ·     When probable outcomes are substantially similar, the prudent course
          is to give preferences to lower cost treatment options over higher
          cost treatment options.
     ·     Listen to your patients and work with them to identify their goals
          for care. Help patients and their families form realistic expectations
          about whether a particular intervention is likely to achieve their
          goals.
     ·     Remember that communication is an important aspect of medical care.
          Be transparent about alternatives, including disclosing when resource
          constraints play a role in decision-making.
     ·     If it becomes an issue, make reasonable efforts to resolve persistent
          disagreement about whether a costly intervention is worthwhile. This
          may include consulting with a colleague, ethics committee or other
          appropriate resource.


This is not to say that anyone should practice unrealistic or one-size-fits-all
medicine. Patients are always individual, and judgment is always a part of the
mix. Physicians have a responsibility for the course of care they deem most
appropriate for their individual patients based on patients' unique clinical
circumstances -- including forgoing interventions dictated by guidelines when
the patient's situation warrants.

Beyond physicians' individual decisions made on a day-to-day basis, medicine as
a profession must play a stewardship role in managing the rising cost of health
care in America.

As an example, overall medical culture should be such that a physician can be
confident that the colleague to whom a patient is referred also will be
judicious in making recommendations about that patient's care.

So important is it that today's physicians be knowledgeable about health care
costs and how their own behavior can affect overall health care spending, the
University of Michigan's medical school, for one, now offers an elective class
on our health care system -- and the class is always filled.

Likewise, any understanding of the system should be buoyed by increased
transparency. Health care administrators and organizations must make a practice
of making accounting costs transparent so that physicians can exercise
well-informed stewardship.

Good stewardship has never been simple. And as we go forward, how we manage
those resources entrusted to us will become even more difficult -- and ever more
important -- as we serve the medical needs of a growing American population.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. John's Telegram (Newfoundland)

                           February 17, 2005 Thursday

Internet pharmacies no threat to Canadian drug supply: industry

BYLINE: CP

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 244  words


Internet drug companies that sell into the United States pose no threat to
Canada's drug supplies, industry representatives told a Commons committee
Wednesday.

The Internet pharmacies want Parliament to look at rule changes to make it
easier to sell prescription drugs across the border.

David MacKay of the Canadian International Pharmacy Association said Health
Minister Ujjal Dosanjh's fears that Canada could become America's drug store are
unfounded.

MacKay said the U.S. market for Internet drug companies is limited and isn't
about to grow by leaps and bounds.

'We have no intention of being a drug store for 280 million Americans,' he told
the Commons health committee.

Canadian cross-border sales have a market of about 1.8 million people, he said,
and that could top out at three million.

Most of the customers are elderly, or poor, without health insurance. They
mainly buy chronic maintenance drugs for conditions such as high blood pressure,
arthritis or diabetes.

There isn't much room to expand because most Americans have some form of
insurance and those plans don't let them go to Canadian pharmacies.

Some medical associations as well as Dosanjh have raised ethical questions about
the Internet pharmacies' practices.

Because they're prohibited from filling prescriptions written by U.S. doctors,
they have to, in effect, have it co-signed by a Canadian doctor. That raises an
ethical question because the Canadian doctor doesn't actually see the patient.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             October 5, 2015 Monday

Unregulated pvt insurance won't help people cut health costs: Dr David Berger

BYLINE: Reema Nagarajan

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 746 words


is better known in India for an article he wrote in the BMJ in May last year
titled 'Corruption ruins the doctor-patient relationship in India' based on his
experiences of working in India. The article sparked a public debate on the
widespread corruption in India's healthcare sector. In Delhi for a visit, Dr
Berger spoke to Rema Nagarajan about how doctors could be ethical

How difficult is it for a doctor to be ethical?

It is not that hard. You just try and do everything in the best interest of the
patient. I have worked all over the world, and I have found that patients are
the same everywhere. What they want is that you do whatever is best for them.
There is no difference in this between a hill person in Garhwal, somebody in
London or Australia or wherever.

Is a highly privatized healthcare sector part of the problem in India?

There is an inherent contradiction in fee-for-service medicine, whether it is in
the state-run system or privately-run system. I think medical establishments
around the world are guilty of a high degree of willful blindness with respect
to fee-for-service medicine and the inherent contradiction that implies. If we
want a highly ethical medical establishment, we need to look at salaried
service. It could be a good salary and you could reward quality. But once you
incentivize throughputs, then you have a very severe conflict of interest. When
it comes to the private sector, the key is official regulation and oversight,
and that seems to be lacking. So one has to hope that some of the private
medical groups would see that an open and transparent, evidence-based approach
to medicine and a true commitment to honesty and acting in the best interest of
the patient could be a competitive advantage in a crowded field. We know there
is a huge unmet need for ethical medicine. Surely, the business imperative is to
service an unmet need. Or maybe, I am really na\xEFve.

In India, with a huge unmet need for healthcare services and little competition
from the public sector, even unethical healthcare businesses thrive. So where is
the need to turn ethical?

That's a problem. But after 25 years of medicine, I am still na\xEFve enough to
believe that there are a lot of doctors whose primary reason for getting up in
the morning is to do something meaningful with their lives and to deliver the
best possible care they can to their patients. Whether it will provide profits
of the same order as ordering a large number of unnecessary investigations and
procedures, well I guess not.

You wrote in your article about private medical education contributing to
corruption. But is there a direct connection?

If you come out of medical school with a debt in crores of rupees, you got to
earn that money back. And the very fact of having had to make a very corrupt
payment, however unwillingly, also means you have been corrupt yourself. So
institutionalized corruption perpetuates itself, and that is the danger of the
rising trend of privatized medical education in the last 20 years. I don't have
an objection per se to private medical education but certainly to the way it has
occurred in India with very high over-investment in the private sector and
under-investment in the government sector.

Do you feel India is going the US way rather than the UK's NHS (National Health
Service) way of state-provided healthcare?

The Indian and the US situations are very similar. If anything, the situation
here is somewhat worse because most hospitals here are for profit whereas in the
US, most are not for profit. Yet, when you talk to people in the US, their
biggest concern is their medical care, their insurance. It's the same here; it
is the biggest cost that could hit you at any time. In India, it does seem quite
an extreme system for some of the poorest people in the world and the amount of
pain that people go through is just huge.

How do you see the opening up of the health insurance sector to private players
playing out in India?

When you make an insurance claim for anything, the first thing an insurance
company does is to see in what ways the claim could be disallowed. So in terms
of reducing anxiety and helping people cut health costs, it is not at all
certain that that's going to help. I think that kind of unregulated private
health insurance system is probably among the worst. Just look at the US. They
spend 17% of their GDP on healthcare and they have the worst outcomes in the
developed world.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 30, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

A Moral Imperative

Abigail Trafford

SECTION: HEALTH; PAGE Z9; SECOND OPINION

LENGTH: 594 words


Every element of the reform plan now being designed by Hillary Rodham Clinton's
task force has an ethical war zone where the bean counters engage the
philosophers in a battle over priorities.

Health reform is supposed to embrace economic issues and ethical questions in
equal measure. As two leaders of the White House health task force -- Princeton
sociologist Paul Starr and California Insurance Commission deputy Walter A.
Zelman -- pointed out in a special issue of the policy journal "Health Affairs:"
"The moral imperative is to achieve equal access to care and protection against
financial destitution for the millions now uninsured or underinsured. The
economic imperative is to slow the rise in health costs. The two sides of the
problem are inseparable.

"Health care reform has become a precondition for America's economic health --
and reputation for decency."

But the two sides separate in the details of reform. Take the basic benefits
package, for example. Should the standard coverage be compulsory or should
people be able to buy their own policy, even if they have to pay extra for it?

If the standard package is too basic and bare-bones, will many people simply buy
their way out of it? That would leave the national health plan for the poor and
sick who have no other options. In the process, a two-tiered health care system
would develop -- which would not be so different from the situation today. "If
rationing [systematic restriction of certain medical services in certain
situations] appears severe enough that 40 percent opt out, then we're back where
we are now," said Harvard University economist Rashi Fein at a recent symposium
at Harvard Medical School on the ethics and economics of national health reform.

Yet a generous benefits package runs the risk of breaking the bank. Cost
estimates of providing coverage to those who are now without insurance run
anywhere from $ 30 billion to $ 90 billion annually. This alerts the bean
counters to call out the cost-control cavalry and cut back the coverage -- or
look for new money in the form of "sin taxes" on tobacco or a "value added tax"
that would be dedicated to health care.

In other countries with national health programs, the great majority of people
participate in the public plan. In Britain, only about 7 percent opt out and buy
their own care. The challenge to the White House task force is to come up with a
plan that is generous enough to keep most people, including the rich and
powerful, committed to the public system. In this scenario, the extras in
medical care would be nonessential to the point of being unnecessary.

As Arnold S. Relman, editor emeritus of the New England Journal of Medicine, put
it: "We have to ensure that the poor get adequately treated. If the rich want to
go out and get badly treated, well fine!"

The problem is this: what constitutes "adequate" treatment? For bean counters,
the issue is cost-effectiveness; for moralizers, the question is
health-effectiveness. But dollars are easier to measure than quality of care.
"I'm really concerned with the framework of health care reform. It's taking a
crisis form in terms of money and it's questionable that quality is being
brought to the table," said Robert Brook, professor of medicine at UCLA and
leader of the RAND group that has assessed unnecessary treatments in the United
States.  "Whatever the model of reform, we have to deal with the issue of
inappropriate care."

As he pointed out, it is unlikely that the poor would "accept a cheap plan with
a high death rate."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              113 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 21, 2007 Monday

At a glance

SECTION: IRELAND; Election2007; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 531 words


What happened yesterday

Fianna Fáil

Fianna Fáil will not accept Sinn Féin support for a Fianna Fáil minority
government in any shape or form after the election, three senior Cabinet
ministers said. Mary Hanafin said: "We are giving a very clear message: that
Fianna Fáil will not go into government with Sinn Féin, or go into government
dependent upon Sinn Féin."

Fine Gael

Expressing his confidence of victory, party leader Enda Kenny said he had been
confident of victory for quite some time. "A real catalyst in this election has
been the alliance with the Labour Party." Asked about Bertie Ahern's declaration
that coalition with Labour was still an option for him, he said: "I would say to
the leader of Fianna Fáil, 'Dream on, baby'."

Labour Party

Private hospitals co-located beside public hospitals as proposed by the outgoing
Government would cost at least EUR 145 million a year, Labour health spokeswoman
Liz McManus alleged. "No proper estimates are available as to the potential cost
and no assessment has been done of the impact on public hospitals or our
existing private health insurance system."

Progressive Democrats

Voters will have elected a weak, inexperienced and divided government if they
elect Fine Gael, Labour and the Greens, PD leader, Michael McDowell told a party
rally last night in Dublin. "Uncertainty would lead to recession. The
construction sector would experience a slowdown followed by a meltdown. The
Rainbow would end in a crock but not of gold."

Green Party

To coincide with his party's launch of proposals for ethical reforms, Trevor
Sargent placed a brown envelope, labelled "backhanders" and filled with notes,
into a bin outside Leinster House. He said it was a symbol of the kind of
ethical reform the Greens want to bring about in Irish political life: ". . . a
change of government means a change of policies and if you were to ask Fianna
Fáil to buy the ethical reforms that we're putting out here, that would be one
hell of a change."

Sinn Féin

The party said it did not believe assertions of Fianna Fáil and others that they
would not go into government with Sinn Féin after the election. The party's
candidate in Dublin Central, Mary Lou McDonald MEP, said: "Frankly I do not
accept the protestations of some parties that they simply will not look at Sinn
Féin."

What happens today

Fianna Fáil: Ministers Brian Cowen and Micheál Martin will be highlighting
Fianna Fáil's economic message while Taoiseach Bertie Ahern will be canvassing
in the northwest and in Cavan/Monaghan .

Fine Gael/Labour: The leaders of Fine Gael and Labour, Enda Kenny and Pat
Rabbitte, will highlight the importance of the vote transfer pact between the
two parties.

Progressive Democrats: Minister for Health Mary Harney will attend a press
conference in Dublin where the focus will be on the party's "positive agenda for
better healthcare for patients".

Green Party: Environment and energy spokesmen Ciarán Cuffe and Eamon Ryan will
revisit the issue of climate change with other party candidates at a rally in
Dublin on the theme "It hasn't gone away, you know".

Sinn Féin: Mary Lou McDonald is setting out her party's policies on neutrality
and international affairs in Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                           November 17, 2007 Saturday

BARRY ROTMAN, M.D., From the health care community Doctors must have enough time
to listen well

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times

SECTION: COLUMNISTS; Opinion

LENGTH: 594 words


AFTER ALMOST 10 years as an internal medicine doctor in a group practice, I
quit.

Why? I love treating patients. But our health care system is broken.

Over 7 million Californians lack health insurance. Gov. Schwarzenegger's
universal health care plan, while technically challenging, is a commendable
step.

Even if it succeeds in helping the estimated 20 percent of Californians without
insurance, there's still a need to preserve quality health care for the other 80
percent.

As an internal medicine doctor, time is my most valuable resource. Illness is
not an isolated biological entity, but rather a disturbance that's interwoven
into the fabric of a person's life. By carefully listening to patients, patterns
and clues emerge.

In evaluating a patient for migraine headaches, for example, I may connect a
complicated chain of events that begins with the loss of a family member, and
leads to depression and weight gain, which in turn triggers a sleep disorder
that sparks migraines.

No MRI or CT scan can replace listening to patients.

Time also goes hand-in-hand with appropriate treatment. The current ethical
standards emphasize shared decision-making regarding medical, surgical and
end-of-life preferences.

Before a patient chooses to undergo surgery, start a potentially dangerous
medication or reject life-prolonging technology, I'm ethically bound to conduct
a detailed, unhurried discussion with that individual.

Many factors conspire to worsen time pressure for internal medicine and other
primary-care physicians.

First, time spent listening to patients, examining them or weighing treatment
options is reimbursed at a lower rate than performing a procedure or reading an
X-ray.

Second, our reimbursement system favors treating episodes of illness rather than
chronic diseases. I'm paid more for fixing a broken pinky than managing
diabetes.

Third, medical care grows more complex every year. Patients on average are
becoming older. They take more medications, and there are more therapeutic and
diagnostic options to consider.

Finally, inflation-adjusted reimbursement has declined for primary-care
physicians over the last decade.

Medicare payments to doctors have increasingly lagged behind the inflation rate
at the same time that consolidation in the health insurance industry has driven
down reimbursement rates.

Many policyholders staggering under the astronomical rise in insurance premiums
may not realize that their primary-care doctor receives only a dwindling share
of the proceeds.

My peers perform admirably amid this crisis. They maintain the highest
professional standards, and struggle to overcome time pressure despite the
burgeoning bureaucratic burden they face.

I'm starting my own practice to reclaim the benefits of spending time with
patients. My practice will require a retainer fee, an annual surcharge that
allows a personalized level of care that only a small practice with a limited
number of patients can deliver.

Let me be clear: I am not proud of this financial model. It is not a solution to
our national health care crisis. It fails ethical standards of equitable
division of resources.

However, I can no longer practice in a system that limits my full potential as a
physician and degrades patient care.

Patients want more from their physicians. Many physicians want to offer more for
their patients.

Retainer-based medicine is one method to bridge this gap, at least until more
sweeping health-care reform addresses the structural limitations that continue
to erode the patient-physician relationship.

Rotman is a Walnut Creek physician.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                             July 9, 2003 Wednesday

TOBY MCDANIEL

SECTION: CITY/STATE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 562 words


Shop 'til you drop when getting a prescription filled or going in for a lab
test, says a recent retiree who is without health insurance. He hopes others
will learn from his costly experience in having a blood test done.

His hospital lab bill was $464. Believing he was grossly overcharged, he checked
around and discovered the same blood work at three other Springfield labs would
have cost up to half as much.

The next lowest lab was much less: $370.

One other lab quoted him $278, and a third would have charged $222.

When he contested the $464 fee, he was told he was entitled to a 20 percent
discount if he paid in full.

"If only I had checked first," he says, "it would have cost less than half."

Conspiring with Cupid

BROOK HOFFMAN was on a mission when he took girlfriend JULIE McNEECE to lunch
the other day.

Just so happened their path took them past Stout & Lauer Jewelers, and when they
reached the red carpet in front of the jewelry store, Brook dropped to one knee
and popped the question.

"It was a total surprise to her," says BRIAN LAUER, who watched the couple from
inside the store. "She went bananas."

Fulfilling his mission, Brook escorted Julie into the store and told her to pick
out a ring, which she did.

PETA is ...

...back in town. This time People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals comes to
Springfield via a billboard depicting blood-spattered Kentucky Fried Chicken
founder Col. HARLAN SANDERS attacking a defenseless chicken with a butcher
knife.

It's along North Grand Avenue, just west of Lanphier High School.

EQUAL TIME: In rebuttal to PETA's outlandish demonstrations, such as the KFC
billboard, a billboard in Alaska plugging the Saskatoon restaurant - home of
steaks, fish and wild camel - says:

"There's plenty of room for all God's creatures. Right next to the mashed
potatoes."

E-MAIL BAG: From J.A. SHEPPARD, Hendersonville, N.C. - "The person who
complained about the illegally parked cars at the Rochester funeral service is
undoubtedly the type person who will have to run an ad in the newspaper for
their pallbearers.

"A big Gold Star for the Sangamon County Sheriff's Office."

SURE IT'S HOT - But it could be worse:

You could be a pigeon and have to perch on the hot head of one of those bronze
statues on the Statehouse lawn.

Uncle Sam Inc.

Oakleaf Country Club's annual Fourth of July celebration at Girard had two Uncle
Sams this year, but that didn't mean folks were seeing double. FRED ADAMSKI,
resident Uncle Sam for nearly 40 years, played his usual role, accompanied by
5-year-old grandson JEREMY MANCINI, also dressed as Uncle Sam.

Greeted by all ages, from babes in arms to 98-year-old MINNIE ALLEN of Girard,
they handed out Adamski's trademark elixir peppermints that are guaranteed to,
he claims, cure ills, chase away woes and jump-start the patriotic spirit.

As the fireworks were ending, the two "uncs" were heading for the clubhouse when
they encountered 5-year-old CONNOR HEINISCH, son of DARYL and SHERRY HEINISCH of
Thayer. Wheelchair-bound with cerebral palsy, Connor mustered a salute for Uncle
Sam and his sidekick.

Adamski also made house calls, delivering U.S. Appreciation Certificates to
recently retired kindergarten teacher MILLIE BURGESS and to the LEE WRIGHTs in
Girard. Their son, Capt. JOSH WRIGHT, is with the 3rd Infantry in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN. LOCAL

                   Copyright 2003 The State Journal-Register


                              116 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            November 2, 1992 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Ethics body faces its own dilemma

BYLINE: Jo Chandler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 535 words


Members of the Senate standing committee on community affairs will meet in
Canberra today to finalise their review of the Australian Health Ethics
Committee.

A key issue is whether the committee should be independent of the National
Health and Medical Research Council.

The committee's job is to formulate guidelines for research and clinical
practice, taking on such sensitive and difficult dilemmas as embryo
experimentation, transplantation and genetic engineering.

Last week five experts concerned with research ethics, among them the Victorian
ethics consultant and Catholic campaigner Nicholas Tonti- Filippini, issued a
statement demanding that the committee be restructured and made politically
accountable.

They argued that the committee, formed last year from the merger of two previous
ethical review committees, could not achieve its status as a credible ethical
regulation and review committee because it was dominated by researchers.

The presence of research scientists and the committee's position within the
NHMRC raised a conflict of interest, they said.

The group says that if a new law passes making the NHMRC a statutory authority,
it will become more powerful and less accountable, and they anticipate the
ethics committee becoming isolated or even immune from community debate.

Yesterday the chairwoman of the committee, the Adelaide barrister and South
Australian health insurance commissioner Ms Robyn Layton, rejected the inference
that the committee could be bent to fit the research agenda.

"The views expressed by the signatories are those of a highly vocal minority who
have no practical working knowledge of the processes of NHMRC," she said.

Of its 12 members, only one was also a member of the medical research committee,
and that appointment was to allow information flow and liaison, she said.

Ms Layton argued against the Tonti-Filippini group's effort to have the ethics
review role made independent of the NHMRC.

Ethics review within the NHMRC was vital, she said. If the committee was set up
independently of the NHMRC, it would lose touch with the issues and the people
at the cutting edge of research and risk becoming marginalised.

Among the groups and individuals who have presented their opinions to the Senate
committee is Dr Paul McNeill, a senior lecturer in the School of Community
Medicine at the University of New South Wales. He has studied the work of ethics
committees in a number of countries, and is the author of a book to be published
next year titled `The Ethics and Politics of Human Experimentation'.

In his submission to the committee, Dr McNeill said an ethics committee needed
to exist within the structure of the NHMRC to guide medical research, but that
it should also be provided with a level of autonomy.

"My major concern is that the principal committee responsible for recommending
guidelines should have independence from the NHMRC in its constitution and
functions," Dr McNeill told the committee.

Dr McNeil wants to see membership of the ethics committee evenly split between
research and non-research members. The non-research members would represent the
human subjects of experimentation, who at present do not have an advocate in the
ethics review process.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1992 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 5, 2006 Monday

Saudi press highlights 5 Jun 06

LENGTH: 1010 words


The following are highlights of the Saudi press on the Internet on 5 June 2006:

I. International issues

1. Saudi-US ties

a. Al-Watan newspaper website publishes part 3 of a report refuting the contents
of a recent report published in the United States about religious curricula in
the Kingdom. It cites certain texts on the treatment of non-Muslims, Israel,
among other issues in school curricula. It also cites Education Ministry
official Al-Khubti who criticizes the report for "inciting hatred of other
religions, including Judaism, Christianity, among others". He also cites a study
that is being printed that analyses the content of a sample of school syllabus
in Israel that contain anti-Arab and Muslim sentiment. (6,500 words)

2. Iraq

a. Al-Watan carries an editorial entitled: "Iraq's Integrity is In Jeopardy," in
which it says: "The Iraqi people and leadership did not realize that the United
States has its own agenda in the region... as the mission of the US troops is
completely different from the wishes of the Iraqi people." It adds: "The
hysteria of murder has become a daily habit in Iraq, for which the US occupation
is responsible as it is the only one capable of stopping these operations with
the financial and moral means at its disposal." (300 words)

b. Al-Watan carries a commentary by Al-Ghamidi entitled: "The Ethics of Soldiers
in a Non-Ethical War," in which the writer reacts to recent reports of US troops
killing civilian Iraqis by saying: "Today, they are trying to teach their
soldiers how to be moral by avoiding to kill unarmed men, women, or children,
which is an impossible mission. These things do not need lessons or lectures,
for they are embedded in the conscience of sound humans... These soldiers know
it for a fact that they are fighting in a non-ethical war. How could anyone come
and tell them after four years of murder, bombardment, terror, and oppression:
Be moral!?" (850 words)

c. Al-Yawm newspaper website carries an editorial entitled: "The Jihad of
Putting Heads in Banana Boxes," in which it laments the "horrible developments
and inhumane practices against some Iraqi people." It denounces the "massacres
that have and continue to take place in the name of the occupation as well as
the abductions, oppression, and murder being carried out in the name of
so-called jihad". It also criticizes the international community for tolerating
and merely denouncing these actions verbally instead of proposing practical
solutions. (350 words)

3. Palestinian issues

a. Arab News newspaper website in English carries an editorial: "Muscle
Flexing." It says: "The Palestinians are swiftly splitting at the seams. The
appearance of a new Fatah militia has raised the stakes in the power struggle
with the Hamas government, nudging the two opposed ideologies closer to a
large-scale conflict."

b. Al-Watan cites senior Palestinian sources as saying PNA President Abbas is
planning to visit Damascus after the Palestinian national dialogue. (200 words)

4. Iran

a. Al-Riyad newspaper website cites "informed Kuwaiti sources" about a decision
made at the GCC session in Riyadh two days ago in response to Iran's position on
nuclear disarmament. The sources say the GCC ministers discussed possible
political, military, and environmental ramifications of Iran's aspirations and
are planning to purchase a number of nuclear early warning systems to install
them along their coastline nearest to Iran as a result. (250 words)

b. Al-Riyad carries a commentary by Wafa entitled: "The Iranian Nuclear File
Between a Tank and a Table," in which the writer says "it is not within
America's interests" to open a new war front with Iran in view of the "currently
open political and military fronts that do not seem to have a solution in the
horizon." (500 words)

II. Local issues

1. Security and terrorism

a. Al-Jazirah newspaper website cites Prince Mit'ib Bin-Abdallah
Bin-Abd-al-Aziz, deputy chief of the National Guard for military affairs, saying
his inspection tour of National Guard military sectors throughout the Kingdom
came within the King's instructions to inspect the status of all sectors,
particularly in terms of protecting buildings, service installations, and
government buildings and installations the National Guard are guarding against
any terrorist attack. (550 words)

2. Economic and labour issues

a. Saudi Gazette carries an unattributed report from Jedda: "Gosaibi Answers
Back: 'We Have Repeatedly Said That Saudization Is A Painful Process Because
Some Have Become Accustomed To Cheap And Obedient Foreign Labour, Even If This
Is Against The Labour Law'." It says: "GHAZI Al-Gosaibi has been under fire
since he became Minister of Labour a few years ago and started pushing hard
ahead with the government's Saudization programme."

b.Ukaz newspaper website reports more than 1,000 high school graduates gathered
outside the Public Security centre in Jazan yesterday to apply for less than 900
vacancies at the rank of soldier. (300 words)

3. Crime and legal issues

a. Al-Watan reports Mecca region has referred 75 moral cases to the
investigation and prosecution commission. The commission will subpoena those
involved in harassment and ethical cases to question them. (120 words)

4. Other issues

a. Arab News carries a report by Maha Akeel in Jedda: "Iqama Renewal Linked to
Health Insurance From Next Month." It says: "The decision to link iqama renewal
with obtaining health insurance will be implemented next month. According to
sources, the Council of Cooperative Health Insurance (CCHI) is directing
companies to complete the process of providing their employees with the
cooperative health insurance policy and providing the health insurance companies
with the necessary information, including iqama numbers of beneficiaries and
their dependents."

b. Al-Riyad carries a report citing the achievements of Riyadh Council under the
leadership of Prince Salman and Prince Sattam in various fields in terms of
projects proposed, views, and the recommendations it has made in the past four
years. (3,400 words)

Sources: As listed

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 23, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Playing fair;
Many consumers are happy to pay extra for good trade practices. But as more
companies win the right to display 'ethical' marks, do we really understand what
we're getting?

BYLINE: By Meg Carter

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1302 words


When Angus Thirlwell co-founded Hotel Chocolat, he knew he wanted to run an
ethical business but wasn't quite sure how. Thirteen years later, his mail order
chocolate company will soon open its seventh shop, selling produce made from a
variety of sources - including beans from its recently acquired cocoa plantation
on St Lucia. And his next step? To further boost the island's economy by
building a chocolate factory next door.

"Traditionally, a European company takes a commodity crop from the grower then
adds value back in Europe," Thirlwell explains. "We hope to add value and
economic prosperity locally by converting our own cocoa - and beans from other
local growers - into chocolate by paying above world market rates. We can charge
consumers at home a premium because we have a quality product: it's a business
plan we believe is sustainable, both for local growers and our bottom line."

Hotel Chocolat is one of a growing number of companies that operate ethically,
from independent concerns such as CafZdirect to multinationals such as NescafZ,
which last autumn brought out its first Fairtrade instant coffee. At first,
Hotel Chocolat donated a percentage of its profits to community development
projects. But over time, it has refined its approach, moving away from
charitable giving to focus on encouraging farmers to grow their cocoa more
sustainably.

"Our approach now is more clearly directed," Thirlwell says. "For example, we
have recently paid for 800 farmers to have a year's health insurance - a
critical safety net for them and their families."

Unlike some ethical brands, however, Hotel Chocolat has chosen not to align
itself with an independently audited ethical standard such as those operated by
the Rainforest Alliance or Fairtrade Labelling Organisations International,
which oversees the Fair-trade mark. Thirlwell says that this is because some
companies use such schemes as a marketing tool to charge higher prices.

Some observers believe that the arrival in the fair trade arena of
multinationals such as NestlZ, whose ethics elsewhere - with regard to the
marketing of baby milk in the developing world - have been questioned, risks
further confusing consumers already unsure of what "ethically produced" means.

Hotel Chocolat is not the only organisation cautious about the growing
proliferation of ethical marks. According to Mel Young, the editor of the fair
trade magazine New Consumer, lessons should be learned from what has happened in
the US.

"In the US organic market there are now 15 different competing marks, and the
confusion is having an adverse affect on sales. Independent certification is
essential as without that, anyone could claim to be doing anything. Consumer
awareness in the UK of Fair-trade is growing, and that's great. But there is a
degree of overlap between some of the standards now emerging."

Andrew Rugasira, the founder of Rwenzori Coffee Company, the Ugandan company
behind Good African Coffee which launched in the UK in Waitrose stores last
year, believes schemes such as Fairtrade miss an important point. "Ethical
certification systems created by developed countries to help producers in
developing ones [are] limiting, because [they] do not lead to any fundamental
shift likely to increase farmers' ownership of what they do and the wealth they
create," his spokesman explains.

Others, though, are confident that with British consumers' growing interest in
the behaviour of the companies behind the products they buy, ethical standards
will spread. "Consumers are able to distinguish between more than one type of
product, and more than one ethical mark," says Jonathan Horrell of food giant
Kraft, whose coffee brand, Kenco, launched Kenco Sustainable Development Coffee
in 2003.

Kraft has bought Rainforest Alliance-certified coffee beans for the past two
years, both for its Sustainable brand, which carries the Rainforest Alliance
mark, and to blend into a growing range of established Kenco coffee products.
Rainforest Alliance-certified beans currently account for one per cent of the
beans bought by the company each year, but this represents one third of the
certified beans currently available. "For a big company you have to start small,
but we are committed to scaling up," Horrell says.

A similar view is held by another manufacturer, Sara Lee, whose Douwe Egberts
coffee division will soon introduce its own socially responsible coffee brand.
Unlike Kraft, its product will carry the Utz Kapeh mark. "Fairtrade is a
developing model to help the world's most disadvantaged farmers by guaranteeing
a fair price. The Rainforest Alliance scheme is more environmentally focused. We
chose a system that we believe could best encompass that greatest number of
growers and, eventually, the entire coffee market," says Douwe Egberts' UK
managing director, Grant Rosewarne.

But it takes more than independent certification to establish a viable business
on ethical standards. "Whatever the certification system you choose, it's not
enough simply to rely on an ethical mark," says Helen Ireland, spokesperson for
CafZdirect, which sells Fair-trade coffees, teas and cocoa.

"There are now so many rival Fairtrade-labelled goods that we have clearly to
demonstrate what we do and how we are different to everyone else, and how what
we do exceeds the minimum requirements for Fairtrade."

"The growth of ethical standards is an opportunity to increase consumer
awareness of how and where the goods they buy are produced, but the potential
for consumer confusion is a challenge," says Ian Bretman of the Fairtrade
Foundation.

"When it comes to sustainable production, however, consumers could justifiably
ask: why shout about it with a special label - shouldn't [the Fairtrade ethos]
be part of everyday business practice?"

A question of ethics: how the different standards operate

FAIRTRADE

The Fairtrade mark was introduced in the 1980s to support small-scale farmers in
the developing world by insulating them against fluctuating prices. Any fall in
the price for commodities such as coffee, tea or cocoa can have a catastrophic
effect. Under Fairtrade, however, farmers receive a guaranteed minimum price
that covers the cost of production and a premium that is re-invested in the
community. Organisations are assessed to ensure they meet standards relating to
agricultural and labour practices.

RAINFOREST ALLIANCE

Launched in the 1980s to combat the destruction of tropical rainforests by
unsustainable farming, it developed its first sustainability standards in the
early 1990s and has since been promoting better land-use practices in the
production of commodities like coffee, cocoa and bananas. If companies,
co-operatives and landowners can show they are conserving biodiversity and
providing sustainable livelihoods, their crops can carry the Rainforest Alliance
mark. Certification works in a similar way to the Fairtrade scheme, although
certified farmers do not receive a guaranteed premium price above market rates.

The Alliance's interest in promoting the well-being of workers means there is a
degree of overlap with Fairtrade. The Alliance also operates the Smartwood mark
now found on wood products stocked by DIY chains such as B&Q.

UTZ KAPEH

Utz Kapeh was established in Guatemala in 1999 (although it is now administered
from the Netherlands) and promotes responsible coffee production. Like the
Rainforest Alliance, the Utz Kapeh Foundation administers a set of social and
environmental criteria for growers and requires them to comply with its code of
conduct before their products can carry the Utz Kapeh mark.

Unlike the Rainforest Alliance, Utz Kapeh does pay farmers a price premium above
world-market coffee prices. Unlike Fairtrade, however, this price is not
guaranteed but a variable figure negotiated between each buyer and seller.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 World Market Intelligence Private Limited,
                              All Rights Reserved


                       WMI - Major Products and Services

                  * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *
            World Market Intelligence company reports are based on a
             core set of research techniques which ensure the best
            possible level of quality and accuracy of data. The key
             sources used include: Company Websites Company Annual
            Reports SEC Filings Press Releases Proprietary Databases
          Notes Financial information of the company is taken from the
           most recently published annual reports or SEC filings The
           financial and operational data reported for the company is
           as per the industry defined standards Revenue converted to
          US$ at average annual conversion rate as of fiscal year end.

                                August 10, 2017

                   Banca Popolare di Sondrio Private Banking

                              Piazza Sacro Cuore 8
                            Mandello del Lario 23826
                                     Italy

* * * * * * * * * * MARKET AND INDUSTRY * * * * * * * * * *

BPSPB is a private banking service provider based in Italy. The key services
offered by the bank include:

PRODUCTS:

   Savings Accounts, Current Accounts, Mortgage Loans, Insurance Solutions:,
Home, Family and Health Insurance, Vehicle and Boat Insurance

SERVICES:

   Investment Funds, Mutual Funds, Ethical Funds, Asset Management Advisory,
Portfolio Management Solutions, Bonds, Financing, On-line Banking Services, Card
Payment Solutions, Payment Solutions, Foreign Exchange Services, Commodity
Trading Solutions, Bank Guarantee Services, Gold Loans, Selling of Gold Bars



* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *








LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017


                              120 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2002 The Catholic University of America
                  Journal of Contemporary Health Law & Policy

                                   Fall, 2002

                      18 J. Contemp. Health L. & Pol'y 649

LENGTH: 5163 words

COMMENT: SOCIAL ETHICS AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURES INFLUENCING THE ALLOCATION
OF HEALTH CARE IN GERMANY AND THE UNITED STATES

NAME: Alfred E. Miller

TEXT:
 [*649]

   I. ETHICAL ISSUES AND PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN THE ALLOCATION OF HEALTH
CARE - WHY PROBLEMS OF SOCIAL JUSTICE DIFFER FROM THOSE OF INDIVIDUAL ETHICAL
BEHAVIOR AND CALL FOR VERY DIFFERENT APPROACHES

 Addressing ethical problems concerning the allocation of health care or other
social goods and services requires understanding their special nature and
finding strategies for solutions in ways that are quite different from
individual ethical behavior in particular situations. On the one hand,
allocation issues are correctly considered in terms of social justice and what
ought to be available to all persons as their right in order to have the
opportunity for a fulfilled life. On the other hand, if we analyze these issues
in terms of concepts, decision processes and types of actions that are
appropriate for individual ethical behavior, it is easy to overlook the
important distinctions needed in dealing with allocation problems.

   Typically, ethical behavior occurs in specific situations, at particular
times and requires single individuals to act according to certain criteria to
achieve immediate concrete ends. By contrast, the factors, criteria and social
structures that affect the allocation of social goods and resources (social
justice) are usually the result of collective decisions made cumulatively over
generations. Uncritical extrapolation of approaches, appropriate for individual
ethical behavior applied to problems of social justice, clouds the issues at
stake, hides the true nature of the problems and hinders developing realistic
solutions. Ordinary ethical behavior is usually a consequence of individuals
both deliberating and implementing their own actions. Achieving social justice
depends on the historical development of an entire society and requires
long-term strategies and concerted, collective action to redress inequities.

   Uncritical consideration of allocation problems in terms appropriate for
individual ethical behavior can make it seem as if an identifiable mistake in
ethical judgment - or some specific factor or even some conspiracy - were
responsible for the existing injustice. This simplistic approach prevents us
from understanding the complex structural nature and  [*650]  historical dynamic
of the underlying problems that obstruct achieving the widely desired, mutually
advantageous goals. Looking for single causes and final solutions for obvious
problems, results in overlooking the subtle but powerful interactions between
competing interests and goals and how these interests ultimately impact the
allocation decision process. As long as we fail to understand the underlying
structural nature of the problems, it is impossible to arrive at realistic
strategies for reshaping the faulty mechanisms responsible for the lack of
proper allocation of resources and services.

   Despite basing seemingly appropriate ethical decisions about allocation on
system-wide analysis and working at the political level to implement corrective
action, they often remain inadequate for dealing effectively with the kinds of
problems involved. In the U.S., political decisions and political processes in
the traditional sense have frequently been inadequate for reaching consensus or
even for implementing actions that are widely agreed upon. Political mandates,
such as those given in national elections, have not succeeded in bringing about
the reform of the overall system necessary to make health care financially
available to all, while keeping the costs in bounds. A central plank in the
winning 1992 election platform was health care reform including some form of
national health insurance. Public opinion polls, professional consensus and
other indicators showed that there was firm political support for major reform
of the health insurance system. Nevertheless, powerful lobbying and massively
financed public opinion campaigns were able to derail the effort to enact the
necessary legislation. n1 Where entrenched vested interests are threatened by
the proposed changes, the implementation of political decisions regarding the
necessary reforms seems to require more than a political mandate in the usual
sense.

   Thus, allocation and its control have to be understood in terms of the
overall system that provides the services and how it developed under the
influence of multiple political and other collective actions and social  [*651]
changes. Comparison of the structure and history of the U.S. and German health
care systems and the ways in which they provide and allocate services provides a
striking case study of how subtle but powerful differences in the structure of
the systems as a whole profoundly influences the outcome in terms of
availability and cost.

   II. OVERALL SIMILARITIES BETWEEN THE U.S. AND GERMAN HEALTH SYSTEMS - BUT
DIFFERENT OUTCOMES IN REGARD TO ALLOCATION AND COSTS

 In the U.S. and Germany the basic components of the health system for
delivering and financing health care are quite similar. Both systems are
comprised of a mix of public and private organizations and service/fiscal
relationships. Most medical services are provided on a private basis, while
publicly operated services constitute a small sector of care for indigent or
other special population groups. In addition, both countries finance the private
delivery of care through an insurance system of payment, funded in part by
employment-related premiums and in part by government-operated funds, that make
the private delivery system accessible to certain parts of the population
(particularly retirees and others not covered by the employment-based premium
system).

   Despite these basic structural similarities in the manner of delivery and
financing of care, however, the outcomes in terms of allocation and cost of
services are strikingly different in the two countries. The German health system
provides essentially universal insurance coverage and a full range of benefits,
including dental care and pharmaceuticals, with very little co-payment or
restriction on utilization except for the peer-review by the physician
associations. By contrast, the U.S. system leaves over forty million (fifteen
percent) of the most needy with no health insurance at all and many more with
inadequate benefits or high co-payments that act as serious barriers to
utilization. Moreover, as a cost-saving measure in recent years, U.S. health
insurers have increasingly instituted various forms of managed care to limit
utilization by restricting the discretion of both consumers and providers.

   At the same time, the German system provides more complete coverage and
fuller benefit package at considerably less cost per capita than the more
limited and restricted U.S. system. After the cost explosion of the 1960s in
both countries, the West German health care budget was held at just above eight
percent of GDP from the mid-1970s until reunification, while U.S. health
expenditures continued to rise to over  [*652]  fourteen percent of GDP at
present and are expected to reach sixteen percent of GDP by 2010. n2 Yet in
spite of the much higher rate of health expenditures in the U.S., there is no
indication that it results in better outcomes or leads to greater satisfaction
with the care received. Health indicators such as infant mortality, life
expectancy and overall public satisfaction with health care are at least as good
and often considerably better in Germany than in the U.S. Moreover, in the face
of ingrained, often conflicting interests of the parties concerned (quite
similar to those in the U.S.), the German system has succeeded in accommodating
to major changing problems and needs of the population (e.g., the cost explosion
beginning in the 1960s, absorption of the East German (GDR) health system and
population and the growing need for long-term care as the population ages).

   By contrast the U.S. health care system has repeatedly failed to accommodate
to similar challenges. The German system is more highly regulated than the U.S.
system, and regulation is strongly rejected in the U.S. as an acceptable
solution for economic or service problems of this sort. However, the highly
successful regulation of the German health system occurs largely by way of
reaching negotiated consensus among all the parties involved. Unlike unilateral
regulation, negotiation as a means of resolving disputes or reaching consensus
among conflicting interests is generally considered an acceptable approach in
this country as well. Why has it not been possible to negotiate solutions for
health care problems in this country in ways like those employed in Germany? To
answer this question it is necessary to examine the more subtle differences in
structures and traditions of the health systems in the two countries, in  [*653]
particular the fiscal relationships between various components of the two
systems and how they developed.

   III. KEY DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE U.S. AND GERMAN HEALTH SYSTEMS: THE
REGULATORY AND NEGOTIATIONAL RELATIONS THAT STEER ECONOMIC AND SERVICE
ARRANGEMENTS

 The German health insurance system is privately operated and performs
essentially the same basic functions as those of U.S. health insurance companies
or organizations like Blue Cross/Blue Shield, such as collecting premiums from
employers and/or employees and paying providers for furnishing services to those
who are insured. Nevertheless, there are important differences in the way the
German system is organized and its relations to the payers and providers. The
organization of the German system makes it possible for the interests of the
various components to be appropriately represented in negotiations that
determine the cost, nature and conditions of services.

   Most U.S. health insurers exist as organizations independent of both
consumers and providers and typically are for-profit corporations meaning their
primary responsibility is to their shareholders. n3 By contrast the German
health insurance and payment system is actually divided into two parts, which
represent the interests of the consumers/payers on the one hand and the
providers on the other hand. The sickness funds (statutory health insurance
organizations) collect premiums from employers and employees on a 50-50 basis
and are governed by boards representing their payers in the same ratio. These
sickness funds negotiate with provider organizations, such as physician
associations, to purchase services for their consumer members. The physician
associations represent their members in the negotiations and distribute the
contributions received in payment from the sickness funds to their physician
members in proportion to the individual services rendered to beneficiaries.
Similar arrangements exist between the sickness funds and hospitals or other
providers.

   The German payment system simultaneously comprises a negotiational framework
between providers, payers and consumers. This enables reaching a consensus that
protects the essential interests of all parties.  [*654]  Each party is
organized and represented in such a way that its own interests are protected,
but also the general public interest, since it remains to the advantage of all
parties to balance cost and effectiveness. This structure allows the parties to
reach acceptable compromises while at the same time maintaining control over the
overall cost of care. Sickness funds represent the common interests of the
employers and employees in obtaining the best care for the best price. Since
they represent a large number of purchasers of services collectively, they have
a strong hand in bargaining with providers. Physician associations and similar
organizations for other providers represent the interests of their members, but
they also have a strong interest in curtailing unnecessary or unfair utilization
generated by providers because they are responsible for distributing the
negotiated overall budget obtained from the sickness funds to fairly reimburse
their individual provider members.

   This negotiation and payment arrangement takes place within a statutory
framework supervised and to some degree directly regulated by government
agencies. It is kept on course by modifications of the underlying law when
necessary to maintain the proper balance between public and private interests.
In response to rapidly escalating costs and other system-wide structural
problems, this negotiation process has been more closely controlled and formally
organized under government supervision in the context of the Konzertierte Aktion
(orchestrated action) for the past twenty-five years. This official arrangement
brings all parties together biannually at the national level to set guidelines
for fixed budgets to be negotiated in detail at more local levels. In addition
to the formal process of negotiation, there is a research and advisory council
of health care experts and representatives of parties concerned with the mandate
to study problems independently and make longer-term recommendations for needed
legislation and administrative adjustments in the system. These recommendations
together with legislative and administrative actions in the public interest
provide further ingredients shaping the negotiations.

   This formal and legally established negotiating system makes the German
health system accountable and responsive to the general public as well as the
specific needs of health care consumers. In addition, the cabinet system of
government (with party responsibility rather than individual representatives
being dependent on campaign contributors) together with the traditional respect
for the fairness and proficiency of the bureaucratic process enables rapid
legislative and regulatory response to new problems and adjustment of the
existing system. This is closely intertwined with the cultural tradition of
expecting the government to  [*655]  assure a safety net of social services and
accepting the necessary regulation and limitations needed to make it work. This
so-called "social solidarity principle' is explicitly written into the laws and
regulations governing the operation of the health insurance system. In turn, the
effective operation of that system in providing needed services at a reasonable
cost is an important part of maintaining confidence in that principle and
commitment to it. Therefore, the cultural norms and social institutions mutually
reinforce each other in enabling the system to work effectively.

   IV. STRUCTURAL DIFFERENCES IN THE PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND REGULATORY
RELATIONS OF THE U.S. HEALTH SYSTEM THAT ACCOUNT FOR THE DIFFERENCES IN
ALLOCATION AND COST

 The U.S. health insurance system, while performing essentially the same fiscal
functions as the German system, provides few of the opportunities or mechanisms
for negotiation to accommodate the various needs and interests involved - much
less on behalf of the general public interest. The U.S. system has two largely
independent sectors. Private insurance is mainly provided as a fringe benefit of
employment, while Medicare and Medicaid, serve specific populations who have no
financial access to private insurance. The latter are highly regulated as direct
federal programs. The former are essentially unregulated in regard to the
efficacy of their function in the health care system and respond only to market
forces. n4 Insurance companies are typically for-profit and therefore primarily
responsible to their shareholders, not to consumers, providers or the general
public interest. There is little representation of consumers, providers or
employers (as payers) on insurance company boards to represent their interests
in corporate decision-making. Therefore, neither these groups nor
representatives of the general public interest have any significant leverage
over the organizations that largely control health expenditures and conditions
for the provision of services in the private market - except to the extent that
the payers must be wooed within free-market competition among insurers.

    [*656]  Even if national health insurance could be enacted legislatively,
there is no existing organizational structure within which representatives of
the various interest groups could negotiate toward consensus or exercise any
coordinated control over the virtually independent components of the health care
payment system as it is presently structured. Physicians are not organized in
associations that could represent their collective professional and financial
interests in exchange for responsible self-control of costs or mode of providing
services. Consumers have no direct interest in constraining costs since the tax
structure encourages full payment of premiums by employers and have no organized
power to do so. Consequently, they do not adequately support political or
administrative efforts to change the system in ways that would rationalize it,
especially when the changes would potentially restrict their utilization of
care. As a result, cost control is only possible by means of heavy-handed
(unilaterally imposed) regulation in the case of federal programs, and rationing
of budgets and utilization through mechanisms like managed care (largely by
for-profit organizations) in the private sector.

   V. HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE GERMAN HEALTH INSURANCE SYSTEM THAT ACCOUNTS
FOR ITS PRESENT STRUCTURE

 Historically speaking, the German national health insurance system was put in
place in 1883, for political motives. It was implemented as a means of
preempting the appeal of socialism and furthering a mercantilist-like approach
to rapid industrialization by encouraging solidarity between employers, workers
and government. The concept of social solidarity and fair allotment of premium
contributions and services received was an integral part of the original
legislation and became an ongoing component of the cultural tradition. Together
with other social insurance programs, such as unemployment and retirement
insurance, national health insurance was enacted at a time when the German
people were more accepting of paternalistic approaches to problem solving and
regulation of social life. There was little resistance from physicians because
medical care was a luxury of the upper classes, which still made very little
difference in the outcome of disease. Consequently, the primary objective of the
initial legislation was to provide ongoing income (sickness pay) for workers who
became sick or injured and lost their income while unable to work. The medical
benefits were a minor part of the package so that physicians did not feel
threatened or interested financially. Hospitals at this time primarily served
the poor under the support of church, state or other charitable or public
auspices.

    [*657]  The sickness insurance program originally covered only a small part
of the low-income, blue-collar population, about ten percent of the overall
population. Once in place, however, the program was easily expanded to more
employees by increasing the income level below which insurance was mandatory and
by also making it optionally available to those with higher incomes who wanted
the advantage of being insured for care. By the time of WWII about ninety
percent of the population were covered by statutory or substitute sickness funds
of some kind with the remaining (primarily high-income) groups largely covered
by some type of private insurance.

   In the early decades of the 20th century as medical care began to make a
significant difference in the outcome of illnesses and became financially
important for all involved, physicians had to organize and negotiate their way
into the existing insurance payment system. Although health insurance was
originally established for blue-collar workers, who accounted for only a small
part of physicians' incomes, its rapid expansion to meet the growing health care
needs of the middle class as well, meant that it was becoming an important
potential source of income for physicians. Originally, the sickness funds ran
clinics themselves and hired physicians to staff them. Even when independently
practicing physicians were reimbursed for services, the sickness funds were able
to control costs by determining which physicians were allowed access to payment
from their revenues for treating their members. As a result, many physicians
soon were excluded from a major part of the population they wanted to serve.
From 1900 onward, professional associations were organized for the purpose of
gaining professional recognition, setting standards and acting as collective
bargaining and pressure groups to attain the political and economic goals of
their members. They used strikes, boycotts and other political and economic
actions and negotiations to gain wider access to sickness fund patients. This
led incrementally to the present system in which these physician organizations
negotiate payment rates and terms of service with sickness funds and act as
intermediaries to distribute the agreed-upon payments among their members in
accord with the services provided. This historical development established the
negotiating structure between consumers, payers and providers, which the
government only needs to supervise and correct when costs or power relations
grow out of balance. For example, when costs escalated rapidly and new needs and
problems arose after WWII, it was relatively easy politically to superimpose a
more heavy-handed government regulatory policy and additional legislation on the
existing negotiational structures in order to correct the problems and deal with
the new needs.

    [*658]  The negotiating structure itself was formalized and incorporated
into the national health insurance law and regulations as it gradually developed
from 1900 onward. The existence of the functional and adaptable
regulatory/negotiating system, together with the long-standing legislative
approach to health care and other social safety-net problems, accustomed
citizens to expect and support the solidarity principle as part of their
cultural tradition. These cultural and political attitudes facilitate
legislative and administrative changes needed to keep the overall system in line
with the best interests of the population as a whole. In turn, the effectiveness
of the system has enhanced trust in government and created greater readiness to
restrict the basic commitment to free-market economics, which Germany shares,
when increased regulation is necessary to keep some aspect of the system
functioning appropriately and in the interest of the public at large.

   VI. HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE U.S. HEALTH INSURANCE SYSTEM AND THE
ORGANIZATION OF FACTORS AND VESTED INTERESTS THAT ACCOUNT FOR ITS FAILURE TO
PROVIDE COMPLETE COVERAGE AND CONTROL COSTS

 In contrast to the German system, the U.S. health insurance system developed in
stages, from the bottom up, by way of limited responses to special financing
problems at particular moments in its history. Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans
developed in the late 1920s and early 1930s under the aegis of hospitals and
physicians to assure payment to those organizations and professionals when the
importance and cost of care became a major concern and potential burden on the
middle class. Commercial health insurance coverage came into widespread
existence as a result of labor union negotiations for health benefits as part of
collective bargaining after WWII, after unions had gained increasing influence
and bargaining power in the preceding decades. When the cost of health care for
the aged grew rapidly in the 1960s and they were unable to obtain insurance
coverage at an affordable price, political pressure arose for the enactment of
Medicare to meet the needs of this key constituent group to which Congress had
to be responsive. Medicaid was enacted as part of the same legislative movement
to provide some degree of coverage for the most poverty-stricken groups unable
to obtain or pay for private insurance.

   Between 1965 and today, repeated efforts to legislate plans to provide
coverage for further marginal lower-income groups all failed because there was
no political constituency for them strong enough to overcome  [*659]  the
resistance of the health insurance industry or the professional interests of
other components of the health system. In the same way, legislative efforts to
control costs in the private sector failed to overcome similar political
resistance from well organized and financed professional groups and the
insurance industry. As a result only the cost of Medicare and Medicaid programs
(under direct control of government regulation) could be controlled to any
significant extent. n5 Finally, when the cost of health insurance fringe
benefits threatened to damage the competitiveness of U.S. employers in world
markets, insurance companies adopted the strategy of managed care as a mechanism
of cost control through utilization rationing. Insurers turned to this strategy
(seizing on the known economic advantage of true health maintenance
organizations) in order to maintain their market-share with employers by holding
down the rate of premium increases and simultaneously to improve their own
margin of profit between premiums and benefits paid.

   Therefore, because of the piecemeal, uncoordinated way in which the health
insurance system developed in this country, there is no overall legal or
administrative framework for structuring the fiscal or service relationships
between its parts. In particular there is no negotiating structure, such as in
Germany, for reaching compromises between consumers, payers and providers to
achieve collective agreement regarding mutually acceptable solutions to problems
that are in the general public interest. Thus, the different way in which the
insurance system developed historically in the U.S. and in Germany and the
different cultural settings in which this occurred have led to major differences
in how the two systems work despite great similarity in the basic components of
both. The political power of free-market ideology, vested interests and lobbying
arrangements in the U.S. make it extremely difficult to legislate reform or
impose regulation except in very limited and specific ways. The failure of cost
control through legislative or negotiated means in turn has led to rationing of
budgets and utilization by non-professionals through managed care by the
insurance companies. This was forced by the need to compete for the business of
employer-payers who are increasingly squeezed by the high cost of fringe
benefits. In this way, allocation decisions have effectively been taken out of
the hands of consumers, providers, employer-payers and even the political system
itself. As a result, without major changes in the balance of power between the
[*660]  players, there is little chance that traditional ethical considerations
regarding the right to health care can have any real significance in the U.S.

   VII. CONCLUSION

 Comparative examination of the German and U.S. health systems makes it clear
that the ethics of allocation cannot be realistically considered without careful
analysis of the social structures, payment mechanisms and cultural traditions
within which allocation takes place. Real change in the allocation of health
care to improve social justice in the U.S. would require long-term political
approaches to overcome the structural resistance to reform within the present
system. In particular it would require reforming the political system itself so
that legislative action could occur to remedy the present inadequacies of
allocation and cost control. Thus, allocation ethics has to be more concerned
with the practical means (e.g., long-term political strategies) for obtaining
desirable ends rather than merely with what would ideally be just in modern
society. Accordingly, the primary ethical issues at stake are how legitimate
vested interests and other deep-rooted obstacles to structural change can be
reconciled with the objectives necessary for the general welfare of the
population, while taking into account the social and economic situation and
institutional arrangements that have developed over time. For example, how can
the need for campaign-finance reform to moderate the influence of powerful
special-interest groups be reconciled with the Constitutional rights of free
speech and unrestricted use of private property? n6 How can the successful
free-market orientation of this country be reconciled with the need for certain
forms of overall regulation necessary to promote the general welfare?

   Based on comparison with the German system, one practical step might be taken
for developing potential strategies for improving the allocation of health
service in this country. A standing independent council with input from all
parties concerned could be established to conduct policy investigations and make
recommendations for promoting the overall public good in health care matters
along the lines of the one advising the national negotiation process in Germany.
Given the right mandate such a  [*661]  council might be able to devise feasible
strategies for reforming the overall structure of the system to bring the
interests of the component parts into accord with the best interests of society
and the economy as a whole. The only argument likely to influence meaningful
political action for bringing about the needed structural and payment-system
reform would be the credible demonstration that the long-term economic and
social good of the nation requires certain fundamental structural changes in the
health care system as a whole.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewInsurance LawClaims &
ContractsAllocationInsurance LawIndustry RegulationGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  In retrospect, it is clear that failure to enact the electorally mandated
legislation was primarily due to opposition from the vested interests threatened
by the changes, rather than by inadequacy of the proposals. On the one hand, no
serious alternative plan was put forward by opponents for reaching the same
desired goals. On the other hand, the proposed cost savings by increased use of
managed care (which were maligned as "rationing' by the opposition) have now
been widely put in place in order to save costs by the same groups who opposed
them then, but without the originally proposed regulatory framework that would
have assured much of the consumer protection now being sought in the so-called
"Health Care Bill of Rights."





n2.  See European Observatory on Health Care Systems, Health Care Systems in
Transition: Germany, 177-20 (2000). In the decade after reunification the much
lower per capita GDP in the former East German states (GDR) with essentially
equal per capita health care costs together with the general economic decline
resulting from the economic strain of integrating and rebuilding the Eastern
states led to an increase in the ratio of health expenditures to GDP from eight
percent to ten percent. However, despite adding major new long-term care
benefits to their health insurance program, evidence suggests that German health
expenditures are holding steady at the new level while U.S. costs continue to
rise ominously. See also Gerard Anderson, et al., Health Tracking Trends: Health
Spending and Outcomes: Trends in OECD Countries, 1960-1998, Health Affairs,
May/June 2000, at 19; U.S. data from: U.S. Health Care Finance Administration,
National Health Expenditures Projections: 2000-2010; Stephen Hefler, et al.,
"Health Spending Growth Up in 1999; Faster Growth Expected in the Future,"
Health Affairs, 20 Mar./Apr. 2001, at 193-203.





n3.  The tremendous variety of different types of health insurance organizations
in the U.S. cannot be considered in the present paper. Since our primary concern
is contrasting the U.S. and German systems, only the pattern-setting type is
discussed, which largely determines how the reimbursement system works as a
whole.





n4.  As corporations whose stock is publicly traded, health insurers are, of
course, subject to auditing and accounting regulations under which any such
corporations must operate. In addition, as insurance companies they are subject
to the security requirements of state insurance regulations to assure that they
can meet their obligations. None of these requirements, however, in any way
regulates their role within the health system as such major influences on the
allocation and cost of care.





n5.  See Alfred E. Miller, & Maria G. Miller, Options for Health and Health
Care, (Wiley) (1982) (providing a more complete analysis of the historical
development of the U.S. health care systems and its problems).





n6.  Of course, special-interest lobbying also plays an important positive role
in bringing particular issues to the attention of Congress and advocating
legislation for the overall public interest. The problem arises when undue
amounts of money are available to support lobbying and public-opinion campaigns
in favor of legislation that benefits only those who have the resources to do
so, while being to the disadvantage of the general public.


                              121 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             August 28, 2015 Friday
                                National Edition

MD: Treat impotence in sex offenders; Ethical Concerns; Shifts criminals toward
normal sex: psychiatrist

BYLINE: Tom Blackwell, National Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 805 words


A Canadian forensic psychiatrist says he regularly treats sex offenders for
impotence, and advocates the practice as a way to keep them out of trouble.

Dr. Paul Fedoroff 's comments come as a new American study raises legal and
ethical questions about helping convicted sex criminals overcome erectile
dysfunction (ED).

The paper's authors worry that doing so might help some perpetrators reoffend,
while U.S. law bars government health insurance from covering the treatment.

Dr. Ricardo Munarriz, a Boston University urologist, says he inadvertently
placed a penile implant in a serious offender and now "it's like he's carrying a
weapon."

But in a response to their article, Fedoroff says Viagratype drugs or other ED
treatment can be part of a strategy to shift offenders from criminal behaviour -
such as assaulting children - toward more normal sex.

Some pedophiles target children because they are afraid they will not be able to
perform if they try to have sex with an adult, he argues.

"Which sounds like the more dangerous person?" asks the Royal Ottawa Mental
Health Centre psychiatrist. "A person who is engaged in fulfilling, healthy
sexual relations with a consenting partner, or someone who has no legal sexual
outlets?" Despite popular belief, sex crimes have little to do with the ability
to become physically aroused, Fedoroff and other experts say. Exhibitionists and
even many rapists do not have erections when they commit their crimes, he says.

The issue was raised recently in a study by three Bostonbased urologists, who
noted in the Journal of Sexual Medicine that the U.S. Medicaid program banned
coverage for anti-impotence drugs in 2005 after public "outrage" that tax
dollars were being spent on them. To determine what has happened since, the
doctors cross-referenced sex-offender registries with lists of patients treated
for ED in their clinic over two years.

They identified 18 offenders, some of whom had spent years in jail for their
crimes. And some still had their drug costs reimbursed.

The doctors say they're not in favour of denying care to all sex offenders, but
complain they lack the expertise to make that decision, and say the science
around the effects of impotence treatment on recidivism is unclear.

Some of the offenders the urologists unknowingly treated had multiple
convictions for raping children; the penile implants and drug injections they
received actually left them more able to get an erection than healthy men, said
Munarriz.

"I feel horrible now that I have a patient out there who is a level-3 sex
offender and has an implant," he said. "I would feel horrible personally if
something happens to a child or a woman."

In fact, there is no evidence that the ability to get an erection influences
whether someone commits a sex crime; offenders do what they do because of
abnormal sexual interests, called paraphilia, says Fedoroff.

His treatment approach tries to direct them into consensual, adult
relationships. If erectile dysfunction is a barrier - and he has seen "hundreds"
with such problems - he will sometimes prescribe drugs or provide other
treatment.

"Virtually everyone has some improvement," the psychiatrist says. "Most find a
girlfriend, boyfriend or appropriate partner."

James Cantor, a scientist at Toronto's Centre for Addiction Mental Health who
studies sexual abuse, said whether to treat impotence in sex offenders is a
non-issue. Most pedophiles engage in inappropriate touching, kissing or genital
contact, and an erection is irrelevant.

Sexual predators and offenders who rape child victims - though often making the
news headlines - are extremely rare, Cantor says.

"This appears to be yet one more hysterical thing that somebody can think of
doing because it tickles their moral exhibitionism," he says about the notion of
denying ED treatment to sex offenders.

"I understand emotionally where people are coming from ... but if we stop to
think for a second, we come to a very, very different decision."

At the same time, Cantor says, there is no empirical evidence supporting
Fedoroff 's contention that providing drugs like Viagra or other impotence
treatment can help direct sex offenders into healthier behaviour, although he
calls it plausible.

Even a spokesman for Beyond Borders, a Canadian group dedicated to combating
child sexual exploitation, says it would be inappropriate for doctors to refuse
impotence treatment because of sex crimes.

Trying to prevent offenders from committing more assaults is the job of law
enforcement and the courts, not physicians, says David Matas, the organization's
lawyer.

"I don't think you can say to any doctor that you can deny a medically indicated
treatment for criminal-justice reasons. It's two separate worlds."

National Post tblackwell@nationalpost.com !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network
Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Royal Ottawa Mental Health Centre; Dr. Paul Fedoroff, an Ottawa
forensic psychiatrist who routinely treats sex offenders for impotence.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               December 22, 1998

MONEYDESK
 Can I be rich and ethical?

BYLINE: With Bob Sommer

SECTION: Pg.12

LENGTH: 473 words


I keep hearing the term "ethical investments" and want to know a bit more about
them. I have been considering a PEP but could an ethical investment company
match this?

T.V. Longford.

"Ethical investments" are not separate companies, merely special funds managed
by an investment or insurance company where all the money is invested in stocks
and shares of a variety of companies whose products and development don't
involve harming the environment, testing on animals, arms production and so
forth.

Because they are linked to the stock market, these funds are suitable for people
who are able to leave their money invested for a number of years in the hope
that they will see the money benefit from the growth potential associated with
equities.

Obviously they will also include the risk that, in the short term, prices are
likely to go down as well as up.

Apart from being specialised funds, they are now available in a wide number of
different forms and can be included in unit trusts, PEPs, bonds and even
personal pensions. As with any investment, much will depend on performance and
it is worth shopping around to find a good company.

For a free fact sheet on Ethical Investment readers can call (01452) 310101.

I have GBP 5,000 to invest and I am thinking about using a PEP but I am unsure
as to which one to choose. Given the fact that PEPs will change in April, am I
better off foregoing any tax advantages and choosing a number of different unit
trusts instead, to spread my investment?

D.E. Ruardean.

The rules say that you can only have one PEP manager each financial year, and
this normally means that all the money has to be invested by the one company.

However, there is a company which has links with over 70 different funds which
means that you have a huge choice and can spread the money over a wide variety
of investment companies and their own portfolios of funds.

They have brought out a new PEP that still gives a spread of companies but in a
simpler fashion. You decide whether you want to invest primarily for income or
growth, and the money is then split between four of the best performing
investment houses.

You can achieve a good spread of investments and still get the tax advantages of
a PEP. To obtain a free copy of this plan, ring (01452) 310101.

- Bob Sommer is an independent financial adviser with Sommer Financial
Management, regulated by the Personal Investment Authority. Answers are for
general guidance only. All information is based on current tax practices, which
are subject to change. The value of shares and investments can go down as well
as up. The PIA does not regulate mortgages, some life assurance, National
Savings, some critical Illness cover, long term care insurance, some private
health insurance, bank and society accounts, will and inheritance tax planning.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 The Gloucester Citizen


                              123 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                             October 5, 2015 Monday

Unregulated private insurance won't help people cut health costs: Dr David
Berger

BYLINE: Rema Nagarajan

SECTION: INTERVIEWS

LENGTH: 766 words


Dr David Berger, director of the British Medical Journal group and a general
physician practising in Australia, is better known in India for an article he
wrote in the BMJ in May last year titled 'Corruption ruins the doctor-patient
relationship in India' based on his experiences of working in India. The article
sparked a public debate on the widespread corruption in India's healthcare
sector. In Delhi for a visit, Dr Berger spoke to Times of India about how
doctors could be ethical. Excerpts:

How difficult is it for a doctor to be ethical?

It is not that hard. You just try and do everything in the best interest of the
patient. I have worked all over the world, and I have found that patients are
the same everywhere. What they want is that you do whatever is best for them.
There is no difference in this between a hill person in Garhwal, somebody in
London or Australia or wherever.

Is a highly privatized healthcare sector part of the problem in India?

There is an inherent contradiction in fee-for-service medicine, whether it is in
the state-run system or privately-run system. I think medical establishments
around the world are guilty of a high degree of willful blindness with respect
to fee-for-service medicine and the inherent contradiction that implies. If we
want a highly ethical medical establishment, we need to look at salaried
service. It could be a good salary and you could reward quality . But once you
incentivize throughputs, then you have a very severe conflict of interest. When
it comes to the private sector, the key is official regulation and oversight,
and that seems to be lacking. So one has to hope that some of the private
medical groups would see that an open and transparent, evidence-based approach
to medicine and a true commitment to honesty and acting in the best interest of
the patient could be a competitive advantage in a crowded field. We know there
is a huge unmet need for ethical medicine. Surely, the business imperative is to
service an unmet need.Or maybe, I am really na\xEFve.

In India, with a huge unmet need for healthcare services and little competition
from the public sector, even unethical healthcare businesses thrive. So where is
the need to turn ethical?

That's a problem. But after 25 years of medicine, I am still na\xEFve enough to
believe that there are a lot of doctors whose primary reason for get ting up in
the morning is to do something meaningful with their lives and to deliver the
best possible care they can to their patients. Whether it will provide profits
of the same order as ordering a large number of unnecessary investigations and
procedures, well I guess not.

You wrote in your article about private medical education contributing to
corruption. But is there a direct connection?

If you come out of medical school with a debt in crores of rupees, you got to
earn that money back. And the very fact of having had to make a very corrupt
payment, however unwillingly, also means you have been corrupt yourself. So
institutionalized corruption perpetuates itself, and that is the danger of the
rising trend of privatized medical education in the last 20 years.I don't have
an objection per se to private medical education but certainly to the way it has
occurred in India with very high over-investment in the private sector and
under-investment in the government sector.

Do you feel India is going the US way rather than the UK's NHS (National Health
Service) way of state-provided healthcare?

The Indian and the US situations are very similar. If anything, the situation
here is somewhat worse because most hospitals here are for profit whereas in the
US, most are not for profit. Yet, when you talk to people in the US, their
biggest concern is their medical care, their insurance. It's the same here; it
is the biggest cost that could hit you at any time. In India, it does seem quite
an extreme system for some of the poorest people in the world and the amount of
pain that people go through is just huge.

How do you see the opening up of the health insurance sector to private players
playing out in India?

When you make an insurance claim for anything, the first thing an insurance
company does is to see in what ways the claim could be disallowed. So in terms
of reducing anxiety and helping people cut health costs, it is not at all
certain that that's going to help. I think that kind of unregulated private
health insurance system is probably among the worst. Just look at the US. They
spend 17% of their GDP on healthcare and they have the worst outcomes in the
developed world.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Full Disclosures

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 686 words


My same-sex partner and I are legally married in another country, a marriage not
recognized by our state or (obviously) federal government, with significant
negative consequences to our modest financial situation. My partner would be
eligible for some government aid if she applied as a single person, but it feels
disingenuous to do so, because as a family, we make well above the poverty line.
In some sense, however, the government owes us this money since it unjustly
disregards our marriage. Should she apply? NAME WITHHELD, PORTLAND, ME.

There's no ethical obstacle to her doing so. As you realize to your dismay, in
this context ''single'' is a technical term with a precise meaning defined by
law. Your partner's duty is to meet the criteria for aid and fill out those
applications honestly. If, for the purposes of, for example, health-insurance
subsidies, the agency administering the program regards her as single, she has
every right -- ethical and legal -- to apply as such.

''Family'' has various meanings to a religious body, to a state legislature, to
a boss who hopes his employees won't unionize, to Don Corleone. I take it to be
a synonym for ''insipid'' when it precedes the word ''film'' and for
''inedible'' when followed by the word ''restaurant.'' Context shapes meaning.
What's more, marriage has long been, among other things, an economic
institution. Your partner may take that into account when considering these
applications.

This decision has nothing to do with the government's compensating her for rough
treatment or being evenhanded or mitigating any injustice marriage law imposes
on you both. Nor could you argue that because federal marriage law discriminates
against same-sex couples, denying them equal treatment, you have an ethical
right to balance the scales by cutting the line at the post office or punching a
homophobe in the snoot, however appealing those actions might seem. But you have
no duty to set stricter standards for such programs than the law itself.
Similarly, although I favor a more progressive income tax, one that might compel
a nice fellow like me to write a bigger check, I am not morally obliged to send
the I.R.S. more money than current law prescribes.

I am a psychiatrist who happens to be an atheist. Occasionally a patient asks me
what religion I follow and, displeased by my answer, seeks another psychiatrist.
I am a physician, not a priest. Religious beliefs seem as relevant to my
profession as they are to an accountant's. Nevertheless, candor sometimes costs
me a patient. May I claim a belief in God to avoid damage to my credibility and
business?

VAIDYANATH IYER, THE WOODLANDS, TEX.

To rephrase your question slightly: May you lie to a patient to initiate a
relationship of trust? O.K., I've rephrased it totally and unflatteringly, but
the answer -- no -- is provided by the American Psychiatric Association's
''Principles of Medical Ethics,'' which requires you to be ''honest in all
professional interactions.'' And rightly so.

What you may do is decline to answer such questions. Glen O. Gabbard, a
professor of psychiatry at Baylor College of Medicine, told me in an e-mail that
''it is not dishonest to use restraint in responding to questions of a personal
nature.'' He added, ''One can also inquire about the reasons for the question.''
The patient's reply might offer insights useful in treatment.

The patient's question need not reflect mere prejudice but could express a
desire for a psychiatrist whose personal experience will yield a deeper
understanding of the patient. On such benign grounds, some women seek a female
psychiatrist, some homosexuals a homosexual. But it is also true that you need
not be a Presbyterian to effectively treat a Presbyterian. Even a gay female
Presbyterian.

And so you should respond courteously to such queries, answering those about
your training and technique but not those you deem irrelevant to the work. Are
you Jewish? A Republican? An opera buff? This demurral could cost you a patient
or two, but so be it. A patient's determination to make an unwise decision does
not justify a doctor's deceit.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW WOODSON)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Caulfield Glen Eira Leader (Australia)

                           December 13, 2016 Tuesday
                           CaulfieldGlenEira Edition

Consumer interest rises

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 350  words


SINCE opening out the back of a Wantirna home 10 years ago, clothing brand Etiko
continues to lead the way in ethically sourced and made clothes.

The brand was inspired by founder Nick Savaidis's own experiences watching the
exploitation of his mother and female relatives as they hunched over sewing
machines in their living rooms in Melbourne's inner-northern suburbs.

He started asking shops questions about where their clothes were made and,
dissatisfied with the vague answers, realised there could be a market for
ethically made and environmentally sourced clothing. Now based in Croydon South,
Etiko has Fair Trade accreditation and works with factories in India, Sri Lanka
and Pakistan.

The accreditation is rigorous, difficult to obtain and even harder to retain.
"We do our own visits to factories, we don't just rely on external auditors," Mr
Savaidis said. "We only work with a limited number of suppliers, but I have got
to know the workers who make the clothes and a lot of the farmers who grow the
cotton for our clothes." On top of paying fair wages, Etiko pays a Fair Trade
premium to each factory, which is invested in social and economic projects to
benefit workers, their families and communities. This included benefits such as
health insurance for workers or schooling for their children.

Mr Savaidis said it was tough for Etiko to compete with bigger brands more
concerned about profit than ethical clothes production, but consumer interest
was growing. "We keep our overheads very low - we're based in the outer suburbs,
we rely more on events and word of mouth than big marketing spend," he said.

TIPS FOR THE ETHICAL SHOPPER â-  The Good on You app rates brands based on their
supply chain impacts on workers, the environment and animals â-  The annual
Australian Fashion Report, produced by Baptist World Aid Australia, grades
brands in terms of supply chain transparency, living wages for workers and how
materials are sourced â-  For clothes made locally, check out Ethical Clothing
Australia's accreditation listâ-  Engage with your favourite brands and question
their practices

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Caulfield Glen Eira Leader


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            October 18, 1996, Friday

Clinton fends off Dole barrage

LENGTH: 309 words


San Diego US Republican presidential hopeful Bob Dole ripped into President Bill
Clinton's ethical fitness for office yesterday, turning their final campaign
debate into a go-for-broke effort to sow doubt about Clinton's leadership.

"Many American people have lost faith in government, they see scandals almost on
a daily basis. They see ethical problems in the White House today," Dole said
after being asked what he would do to rekindle trust in government.

Dole, far behind in the polls with just three weeks to the November 5 election,
said "trust is being violated" by the Clinton administration and cited the
improper collection of FBI files on top Republicans by Clinton aides as an
example.

"Young people are looking to us . . . for leadership. They're watching what we
do, what we say, what we promise and what we finally deliver," he said.

"When I'm president of the United States, I will keep my word. My word is my
bond." Clinton seemed unfazed by Dole's attack and took a return shot with a
reference to the highly unpopular move by the Republican Congress to shut down
the federal government during last year's budget fight.

Clinton also accused the Republicans of proposing cuts in the Medicare public
health insurance program, prompting Dole to reply: "There you go again, talking
about a Medicare cut." Dole denied it, seizing the chance to recycle a famous
presidential debate one-liner _ "There you go again" _ used with success by
Ronald Reagan in 1980 against Jimmy Carter.

The debate was before a heavily white group of 113 undecided voters chosen at
random to ask the questions.

Clinton entered the debate knowing he merely had to avoid mistakes _ as he did
in the first debate on October 6, when most viewers called him the winner _ to
hold his commanding position for the last 20 days until the election.

Reuter

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 1996 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              127 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              March 6, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

Our plans to control immigration are workable, effective and fair;
Another Voice

BYLINE: Nigel Farage

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 735 words


This week, Ukip announced its firm, but fair, immigration policy at the Emmanuel
Centre in the heart of London. I was delighted to be flanked on stage by many of
our candidates, some of them immigrants, or first or second generation
immigrants themselves, who know that we have the most ethical and sustainable
policy of all the parties.

This is because Ukip realises that for decades Britain's net migration numbers
hovered around 30,000 a year. That is sustainable for our country - though even
those figures sparked fierce debate in the United Kingdom.

And yet, under this Conservative government - which promised to reduce net
migration to the "tens of thousands" - we now have 300,000 people, net, coming
into the country every year. This is up from 196,000 under Labour - who opened
Britain's borders to new EU citizens - in 2009.

So when Ukip talks about immigration control - especially the Australian-style
points system we've proposed - the national media goes into a frenzy. Let me
give you an example. It's apparent to anyone who's willing to be honest about
it, that nine million more people in this country - through natural growth as
well as via immigration over the past 20 years - has added to the strain on our
National Health Service, on our school places, and on our housing situation.

And yet, when I say that our Australian-style points system would prohibit those
with long-term diseases coming to this country, there's uproar. Well, just like
Australia does, a British immigration system would look at the quality of the
candidates who wish to come into the country. For instance, how old are they?
What skills do they have? What languages do they speak? And yes, do they have a
long-term ailment that would require them to use the resources of the NHS upon
entry, and at great cost?

You'd think all these things were normal things to take into consideration.
After all, cancer and HIV treatments aren't cheap, and it isn't fair or ethical
to expect the British taxpayer, who has paid into the system their whole lives,
to fund the treatment for a migrant who has just arrived here and hasn't yet
made the requisite contributions.

That's why we'd ensure that people who came to the UK on work visas had health
insurance, too. It's a policy that is moral, as well as one that keeps the
interests of the British public at heart. And that's not to say that
HIV-positive people are going to be turned around at the border. It is to say
that the points system will weigh against people with long-term illness, so as
not to cause further strain on our NHS.

I know it's not necessarily the most popular thing to say, nor is it the nicest
thing to have to enforce. But if we truly believe in a sustainable solution to
the problems caused by immigration - if we want people to start feeling that
immigration is a net positivething - then we have to take firm but fair
decisions.

Cameron has lost his nerve over TV debates

So David Cameron has this week shown his true colours; yellow. I mean even the
Liberal Democrat leader had the gumption to debate against me ahead of the
European elections. But Mr Cameron is frit. And he's sending the Tory punchbag
Grant Shapps on to television to take beatings from the other parties and the
national media over the issue.

Remember, once upon a time, Mr Cameron was a big proponent of televised leaders'
debates. Then he began to look less keen. It might be because if he was held to
account by me on the national stage, he knows he'd have to answer for his record
in government. He knows he'd have to look at the list of policies he announced
in 2010, when he said, "If I don't deliver, kick me out" - and be shown up to
have been completely ineffective.

It might be that he'd have to admit to a lost five years in government, during
which he has doubled Labour's 13-year debt in less than half the time, and then
used the proceeds of that borrowing to Astroturf economic growth, covering up
the fact that it doesn't have proper roots. Or maybe it's because he promised to
bring net migration down to the tens of thousands, and yet under the Tories,
it's now the highest it's been in a decade.

Whatever the reasons, let me say this: Mr Cameron, if you are a real leader
you'll debate against me, Mr Miliband, and Mr Clegg in a four-way debate. And Mr
Miliband, if Mr Cameron doesn't want to go against you one-on-one??? I will. How
about that?

Twitter: @Nigel_Farage

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 28, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

ICLUSIG Tablets 15 Mg Approved in Japan for Patients with Chronic Myeloid
Leukemia, Philadelphia Chromosome-Positive Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia

LENGTH: 420  words


Sept. 28 -- Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. has received regulatory approval in
Japan for manufacture and sales of ICLUSIG Tablets 15 mg (ponatinib
hydrochloride), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) indicated to treat patients
with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) who are resistant or intolerant to previous
treatments and patients with recurrent or refractory Philadelphia-chromosome
positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL).[*2]

Although TKIs are used as a first-line treatment for CML and Ph+ ALL, mutation
of BCR-ABL genes can develop during the treatment period and indicates
resistance to the currently used TKI. In addition, intolerance to the side
effects of existing TKI treatments can lead to a discontinuation of treatment.

ICLUSIG, discovered in the U.S. by ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., is a TKI that
targets BCR-ABL expressed in CML and Ph+ ALL. This drug is a new chemically
synthesized oral TKI, and is specifically designed to inhibit mutated TK caused
by a T315I mutation which induces resistance to the currently used TKI. ICLUSIG
demonstrates efficacy in CML patients with resistance to or with intolerance to
currently available TKIs. ICLUSIG was approved in the U.S. in 2012, in Europe in
2013, and in 2014 Otsuka obtained the rights to commercialize and develop
ICLUSIG in ten Asian countries and regions.[*1] ICLUSIG was designated as an
orphan drug in Japan and a new drug application (NDA) was submitted in January
2016. NDAs have been submitted in Korea and Taiwan as well.

[Early access program until reimbursement is in place]

Due to the limited existing treatment options for patients in Japan, Otsuka will
provide access to ICLUSIG free of charge as soon as procedures are in place from
an ethical standpoint. This program will be offered at medical institutions
where clinical trials of ICLUSIG were performed and which are amenable to
accepting the drug access program until the product is listed on the Japan
National Health Insurance (NHI) price list. Otsuka will conduct this program in
accordance with the Fair Competition Code of the Ethical Drug Manufacturing
Industry.

Footnotes:

[*1] Japan, Indonesia, Malaysia, China (including Hong Kong), Philippines,
Singapore, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam

[*2] Chromosome abnormality seen in CML and Ph+ ALL. Due to translocation of
Chromosome 22 and Chromosome 9, genes c-ABL and BCR bind together to form an
abnormal protein which causes indefinite proliferation of hematopoietic stem
cells and leads to leukemia.

Source: Otsuka Pharmaceutical

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Herald Bulletin (Anderson, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

EDITORIAL: Discarded tax documents expose need for new law

BYLINE: The Herald Bulletin, Anderson, Ind.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 432 words


March 29--This month, a pile of partially burned documents containing sensitive
information such as Social Security number, incomes, names and addresses were
found in an alley outside of Instant Tax Service on Madison Avenue in Anderson.

The papers contained W-2 forms complete with total wages, employer names and
addresses, employees' full names and addresses and -- most disturbing -- Social
Security numbers.

For an identity thief, this could have been a gold mine.

Identity theft can have long-lasting ramifications, including ruined credit and
ongoing financial problems, not to mention the time and stress involved in
resolving the issue, which can take months.

According to the Department of Justice's most recent data, an estimated 23
percent of all victims of identity theft suffered an out-of-pocket financial
loss.

This same DOJ report, released in December 2010, also cites instances of stolen
identities being falsely used by people seeking medical care, government
benefits as well as traffic stops. So, theoretically, you could be accused of a
crime you didn't commit because someone is pretending to be you.

It stands to reason that the handling of personal information by tax preparers
has hefty ethical standards attached to it with criminal repercussions for those
who knowingly, negligently mishandle their client's sensitive information.

Not so much.

In the course of reporting this story, The Herald Bulletin learned there are no
local or federal criminal charges that apply to tax preparers who mishandle a
client's personal information as there is for medical institutions covered by
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. Clients who believe
their personal information was compromised by a tax preparer can file a civil
suit, if they can prove damages.

Consumers need and deserve more protection. Given the ramifications of identity
theft, legislators should examine this issue and explore passing laws that would
hold tax preparers to a high moral and ethical standard, ensuring the safety of
the clients who rely on them.  For those tax preparers who handle client
information appropriately and sensitively, a law will just offer additional
assurance to those who come through their doors for help.

To see more of The Herald Bulletin, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.theheraldbulletin.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Herald Bulletin,
Anderson, Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110329-HU-EDITORIAL-Discarded-tax-documents-expose-need-for-new-law-0329-20110
329

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HU


                       Copyright 2011 The Herald Bulletin


                              130 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      March 20, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Aflac Named a World's Most Ethical Company for 8th Consecutive Year

LENGTH: 255  words


New Delhi, March 20 -- Aflac, the leading provider of voluntary insurance in the
United States and a 2013 FORTUNE Blue Ribbon Company, has been named to the
Ethisphere Institute's 2014 list of World's Most Ethical Companies. It is the
eighth consecutive year that Aflac has been included on this list. Aflac is the
only insurance company to have appeared on Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical
Companies list every year since the inception of the award in 2007.



"Appearing on Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical Company list for the 8th
consecutive year validates our belief that ethical practices are essential to
business success," Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos said. "The foundation of our
relationship with customers is trust; trust that we will pay claims quickly
during times of need. This honor reinforces the faith that customers and
shareholders place in our commitment to serve them with integrity."

"Aflac has been listed as a World's Most Ethical Company for eight years running
which demonstrates their commitment to doing business ethically and with
integrity," said the Ethisphere Institute's Chief Executive Officer, Timothy
Erblich. "Their leadership team clearly understands the correlation between
trust and better business practices which is why we are excited to recognize
them for, among other things, displaying clear leadership in reputation,
innovation and operating a robust ethics and compliance program with excellent
tone from the top. We congratulate everyone at Aflac for this extraordinary
achievement."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               February 13, 2000

Ethics fear over mass gene bank;
Britain to stage world's largest clinical trial to help pharmaceutical companies
develop new drugs

BYLINE: Robin McKie and Patrick Wintour

SECTION: Observer News Pages; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 608 words


HALF a million British citizens are to take part in the world's largest clinical
trial in a bid to create a new generation of drugs and treatments to counter
cancer, heart disease and mental illness.

The scheme which raises a host of major ethical problems, including the need for
patient confidentiality is to be launched next year.

It will involve taking lifestyle details, DNA samples and medical records of
patients from selected GP practices to create a national database. Researchers
will track participants and attempt to unravel the environmental and genetic
roots of the diseases that afflict them. The programme called the UK Population
Biomedical Collection could become a precursor of a national DNA database
covering all NHS patients.

The scheme, with start-up costs of pounds 40 million, is intended to give the
British pharmaceutical industry a critical advantage over its competitors.

Using data from the collection, researchers will be able to design new drugs to
counter most major diseases. It will also be used to predict whether individuals
are liable to contract killer diseases.

But the project a direct outcome of scientists' success in unravelling the human
genome faces headaches concerning confidentiality of data, the sale of patient
information to private companies, and the linking of disease susceptibilities to
different ethnic sub-groups.

Health Minister Yvette Cooper said last night that the proposal 'raised very
serious ethical and practical issues' for Britain. 'Patient confidentiality and
consent will be the key. That is why there will be widespread consultation
before any decison is made.'

Ministers also point out that the database should quickly lead to the
establishment of a new type of medi cine in Britain, one that is based on
predictive action. This would threaten the private insurance industry.

As one Minister said, this sort of database 'means the conservatives are going
up precisely the wrong path by advocating more private health insurance.
Genetics will eventually mean it is possible to identify individuals prone to
illness, such as cancer. They will become uninsurable.'

The database project is the brainchild of the Medical Research Council and the
Wellcome Trust, the principal funders of medical research in the UK, who
recently set up a panel led by Professor Tom Meade to study the project's
feasibility.

An NHS ethical committee will have the final say about its establishment but
sources in both organisations say they are extremely confident the collection
will be launched next year. Doctors will ask patients in various categories,
including those related to ethnic origin, if they wish to par ticipate.
Critically, volunteers will have to be between 45 and 65 healthy people who are
liable to get sick within one or two decades.

Patients will be followed up regularly throughout the study, details of coronary
conditions, major blood pressure problems, tumours and other problems being
added to their files.

By linking these developments with information about their genetic make-up and
their social status and lifestyles, it will be possible to tease apart the
genetic and environmental causes of their conditions.

A key factor behind the scheme has been the setting up of a similar scheme in
Iceland. That, however, has been mired in controversy because patients have had
to opt out of involvement. In Britain, an 'opt-in' system will be used.

'Involvement is going to be entirely voluntary,' stressed Professor Meade. 'That
is a critical part of this project.'

Gene Bank, page 16-17

Leader, page 28


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              132 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Uninsured Employee

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-16-05: THE
ETHICIST; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 578 words


I have an employee with no health insurance -- he opted out of our company plan
-- with a wife and children who rely on his income. He has been loyal and
productive. I have no bad things to say about him. Recently he was diagnosed
with cancer and will not be able to perform his job. Should I continue to pay
his salary even after he stops working? How should employers handle such
situations?    Eric Markowitz, Brooklyn

On the face of it, it is not your individual obligation to continue to pay a
person who cannot do his job, although it would be generous of you to do so.
There is another way, however, to look at this situation.

If your employee opted out of the health plan because it is too expensive or the
deductible too high, you should re-examine the plan. In addition, a more
generous leave policy would obviate your question. If one were in place, paid
time off would be an ailing employee's right, not an employer's ethical
conundrum.

Such programs do place a financial burden on employers, but it is one that
employers in many developed nations are able to bear. In France and Germany, for
example, according to Tom Geoghegan, an employment lawyer, situations like yours
are covered not just by taxpayers but also by employers.

The laws in other countries are not an invariable guide to right conduct -- as
our mothers chided us, ''If Belgium jumped off the roof.. . .'' -- but they can
reveal what many nations similar to ours regard as ethically necessary and
economically feasible. ''If in most European democracies he'd be doing more by
law,'' Geoghegan says of any employer, ''it's not morally acceptable to take
advantage of the lower standards here.'' This is a stern but not unreasonable
way to put it.

Sometimes it is what we do long before a moment of crisis that is most ethically
significant. And it is how we phrase the question that determines what we see as
our ethical obligation.

UPDATE: This employee is no longer able to come to work. Markowitz pays him to
work from home a few days a week but does not know what he will do if the
employee's condition worsens.

A woman sitting near me in a local coffee shop asked me to watch her things for
a few minutes while she went across the street to her home. She said she
wouldn't leave anything valuable. She was gone for over an hour, returning as I
was about to ask someone else nearby to take over the surveillance and then
leave myself. Would I have been wrong to do so?    Melinda Campopiano,
Pittsburgh

You were free to go after . . . 10 minutes? 5 minutes? It's hard to offer a
precise time, but certainly it's well under an hour. Every promise includes
assumptions, whether stated or not. When you accepted sentry duty, the
assumption was that even if something delayed this woman beyond the ''few
minutes'' she predicted, she would not be away for an unreasonably long time --
for example, that she would not take a two-week vacation in Tuscany.

If you had left, you would have done well either to ask another patron to take
over, as you contemplated, or to leave this woman's stuff with one of the
clerks; the waiters are there as long as the place is open.

The location of the coffee shop is also a factor. Had it been in a neighborhood
of private homes where ''across the street'' is an easily identifiable address,
you could have dropped off her things. Had it been a coffee shop within the
Pittsburgh airport, I'd have suggested a different response: run for your life!


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Singapore Government News

                     February 28, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Overcharging Behaviour

LENGTH: 330  words


Feb. 28 -- Name and Constituency of Member of Parliament

Er Dr Lee Bee Wah

MP for Nee Soon GRC

Question No. 993

To ask the Minister for Health (a) in the past five years, how many reports of
excessive charging by doctors in private practice have been received by the
Ministry; (b) whether there is a trend of doctors abusing their patients'
medical insurance coverage by overcharging them; and (c) what measures can be
taken to regulate such a practice.

Answer

1. MOH receives feedback on a variety of issues, including on doctor fees and
charges. Occasionally, there are cases relating to alleged over-charging.

2. Doctors are ethically responsible for charging fair and reasonable fees to
their patients. The Singapore Medical Council (SMC) Ethical Code and Ethical
Guidelines (ECEG) requires doctors to charge reasonably and ensure that their
fees are transparent and made known to patients in advance. The SMC can take
disciplinary action against errant doctors who do not meet these requirements,
and has done so before.

3. MOH is working with healthcare providers on ways to improve fee transparency.
MOH has published 'Total Hospital Bill" data for common conditions and "Total
Operation Fees" for common surgical procedures for both public and private
hospitals. MOH also requires all hospitals to provide patients with financial
counselling upon admission. In the outpatient setting, MOH requires all GP and
dental clinics under the Community Health Assist Scheme (CHAS) scheme to issue
itemised bills to CHAS patients, from January this year. These measures ensure
more fee transparency and enable patients to make more informed decisions.

4. MOH is also studying the recommendations from the Health Insurance Task Force
(HITF) relating to over-charging.

5. Each of us have to play our part to keep our healthcare costs sustainable,
while ensuring that patients continue to have access to good quality and
appropriate healthcare.

Source: Ministry of Health, Government of Singapore

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2017 Singapore Government News, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                             June 29, 2017 Thursday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Olmos ask pet owners to stay home July 4

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 218 words


NEW YORK -- Edward James Olmos has a message for pet owners on the Fourth of
July: Stay home.

Noisy fireworks on America's birthday can startle animals and cause them to run
away. Olmos has teamed up with People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals to
urge owners to comfort their pets or at least leave a TV or radio set on to mask
the blasts so they don't get as scared.

"Many animals have actually broken through glass windows and doors to get out of
the house," the veteran actor told The Associated Press in a recent interview.
"They don't know where the explosion is coming from, all they know is that there
are explosions and they immediately take it in a fearful way."

The insurance giant Nationwide, which provides pet health insurance, last year
reported that the most common Fourth of July pet injuries were laceration caused
by pets breaking through a glass window or fence. Other firework-related pet
injuries included being hit by a car after becoming spooked by fireworks, near
drowning after falling in pools and strangulation by collars getting caught.

Actor Edward James Olmos teamed up with People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals to urge owners to comfort their pets or at least leave a TV or radio set
on so they don't get as scared during Fourth of July fireworks. [The Associated
Press]

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2017 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 3, 2014 Friday

South Dakota: Account Executive

LENGTH: 338  words

DATELINE: Pierre


South Dakota Department of Labor has issued the following job announcement:


Job Order ID:  1669793
Openings:  1
Status:  Full Time
Hours per Week:  40
Experience Required:
Education Required
 High School Diploma
Minimum Age:  18
Drivers License Class:  1 - Car/Lt Truck/Moped/Non CDL Vehicle

Job Title:  Account Executive
Salary:  Not Specified
Duration:  Over 150 Days
Days:  Mon, Tue, Wed, Thu, Fri
Shift:  Day
Licenses/Certification:  Valid Driver's License & Own car
Lifting Requirements:  None
Endorsements:


Desired Skills:  Sales experience, Experience with excel, powerpoint and word
Description:  Position closes on 10/24/2014. Proactively develop and communicate
advertising solutions to existing and potential customers to generate revenue
for stations.
Essential Functions:
o Manage existing accounts by maintaining and growing their business with the
station
o Proactively develop new client base
o Represent the station in a professional and ethical manner
o Communicate account information and needs to internal staff and complete
appropriate paperwork
o Ability to work independently and in a team atmosphere
Qualifications:
o Previous sales experience preferred
o Ability to develop creative marketing strategies and advertising solutions
o Effective written and verbal communications skills
o Laptop computer suggested
o Computer skills to include excel, power point and word
o Strong client focus
o Ability to develop positive relationships and represent the station in a
professional and ethical manner
o Highly motivated
o Provide own transportation and be able to travel to customer locations
Wage is variable but change due to commission. Benefits such as health insurance
starting the first month after 90 days.
Prefer NCRC (National Career Readiness Certificate) Silver level. For more
information contact your local SD Department of Labor and Regulation office.
Worksite Address:  Yankton, SD 57078
Benefits Information:

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                          September 11, 2008 Thursday

Spending on health care 'bound to go up';
But it would still be reasonable if kept below 10% of GDP in the future, says
Health Minister

BYLINE: Lee Hui Chieh

LENGTH: 515  words


IT IS unrealistic to expect national spending on health care not to increase in
the future, said Health Minister Khaw Boon Wan yesterday.

Now at a low 4 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP), spending will go up but
would still be reasonable if kept below 10 per cent of GDP, he said.

If spending on health care reached 8 to 9 per cent of GDP, it would mean an
individual would need to use some 15 per cent of his own income on medical
expenses, including health insurance premiums and co-payments.

Speaking at a dialogue with more than 200 doctors yesterday, he noted that
Singapore has managed to cap national health-care spending at 4 per cent of GDP
and still achieve high standards of health care compared with the United States,
which spends 16 per cent of its GDP on health care.

These were 'results which we can be proud of', he said.

But spending must go up, with medical advances making treatments and drugs
costlier, and plans by the Health Ministry to recruit more doctors, nurses and
other health-care professionals to improve standards of care.

He said: 'How high will it go? That's really a question for society at large to
answer.'

Mr Khaw felt that a cap below 10 per cent of GDP would be a fair amount and that
individuals would be prepared to spend 12 to 15 per cent of their income on
health care.

He was responding to a question from Dr Francis Chin, an associate consultant
from the National Cancer Centre's department of radiation therapy.

Dr Chin later told reporters he was happy to know that the Government was
prepared to increase health spending, which he felt was necessary given
patients' rising expectations.

Medical ethics were also discussed yesterday.

Mr Khaw felt that Singapore doctors generally had high ethical standards,
despite fears by patients that commercial interests were challenging traditional
values of medicine.

For example, a survey found that 60 per cent of general practitioners practised
aesthetic medicine, which seemed high at first glance, he said.

But only 6 per cent of their daily work involved some aesthetic procedures, and
most of these were in fact done for legitimate medical reasons.

Mr Khaw credited the high ethical standards to years of nurturing of junior
doctors by senior doctors, whom he likened to 'accomplished gongfu masters',
passing on technical skills as well as values and ethos.

The dialogue was organised by public health group Singapore Health Services
(SingHealth) to launch its book, Behind The Stethoscope: Personal Reflections On
Life In Medicine.

The book had been conceived to inspire young doctors, many of whom feel they
lack guidance, said one of its editors, Dr Jeremy Lim, SingHealth's director of
policy and research.

Put together over eight months by a team of nine including Dr Lim, the book
features contributions by 56 doctors from both the public and private sectors.

The book is available at $14.90 at all SingHealth retail pharmacies, the
National University of Singapore Cooperative bookstores and Books Kinokuniya.

Profits will be used to help needy patients of SingHealth institutions.

huichieh@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 23, 2012 Monday

Alvernia taps leader for ethics institute

BYLINE: Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words


April 23--Alvernia University has appointed David Myers, who worked for former
Gov. Ed Rendell, to oversee its new institute focused on ethical issues in
leadership.

Myers will serve as the founding director of O'Pake Institute for Ethics,
Leadership and Public Service. The institute is designed to be a regional center
for discussions about contemporary ethical issues and the integration of
teaching into service leadership.

Myers, who was Rendell's deputy chief of staff, also will be responsible to
assist Alvernia in networking with other local entities to build opportunities
for civic leadership and public service.

The O'Pake Institute is named for the late state Sen. Michael A. O'Pake to
celebrate his commitment to ethics and leadership. O'Pake, a longtime Alvernia
board member, died in December 2010.

While on Rendell's staff, Myers oversaw the management and operation of the
governor's office, including human resources and information technology. He also
served as the governor's liaison to the State System of Higher Education.

Myers also worked for former Gov. Robert Casey's administrative staff and helped
create the Children's Health Insurance Program.

Most recently, Myers served as executive director for external relations and
economic development at Bucknell University.

"David is a perfect fit for this position," Alvernia Provost Shirley Williams
said in a prepared statement. "His extensive leadership background in both
public service and higher education is ideal to direct the O'Pake Institute."

___ (c)2012 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120423-RE-Alvernia-taps-leader-for-ethics-institute-0423-20120423

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2012 Reading Eagle


                              138 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Prince Rupert Daily News (British Columbia)

                           February 17, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Internet pharmacies no threat to Canadian drug supply: industry

BYLINE: Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 254  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA (CP) -- Internet drug companies that sell into the United States pose no
threat to Canada's drug supplies, industry representatives told a Commons
committee Wednesday.

The Internet pharmacies want Parliament to look at rule changes to make it
easier to sell prescription drugs across the border.

David MacKay of the Canadian International Pharmacy Association said Health
Minister Ujjal Dosanjh's fears that Canada could become America's drug store are
unfounded.

MacKay said the U.S. market for Internet drug companies is limited and isn't
about to grow by leaps and bounds.

"We have no intention of being a drug store for 280 million Americans," he told
the Commons health committee.

Canadian cross-border sales have a market of about 1.8 million people, he said,
and that could top out at three million.

Most of the customers are elderly, or poor, without health insurance. They
mainly buy chronic maintenance drugs for conditions such as high blood pressure,
arthritis or diabetes.

There isn't much room to expand because most Americans have some form of
insurance and those plans don't let them go to Canadian pharmacies.

"There are natural limitations," MacKay said.

Some medical associations as well as Dosanjh have raised ethical questions about
the Internet pharmacies' practices. Because they're prohibited from filling
prescriptions written by U.S. doctors, they have to, in effect, have it
co-signed by a Canadian doctor. That raises an ethical question because the
Canadian doctor doesn't actually see the patient.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Prince Rupert Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 19, 2013 Thursday

South Dakota: Department of Labor and Regulation - Account Executive/1631204

LENGTH: 329  words

DATELINE: Pierre


Department of Labor and Regulation, The State of South Dakota has issued the
following job announcement:


Job Order ID:  1631204
Openings:  1
Status:  Full Time
Hours per Week:  40
Experience Required:
Education Required
 High School Diploma
Minimum Age:  18
Drivers License Class:  1 - Car/Lt Truck/Moped/Non CDL Vehicle

Job Title:  Account Executive
Salary:  Not Specified
Duration:  Over 150 Days
Days:  Mon, Tue, Wed, Thu, Fri
Shift:  Day
Licenses/Certification:  Valid Driver's License & Own car
Lifting Requirements:  None
Endorsements:


Desired Skills:  Sales experience, Experience with excel, powerpoint and word
Description:  Taking resumes until 2-22-2013 Proactively develop and communicate
advertising solutions to existing and potential customers to generate revenue
for stations.
Essential Functions:
o Manage existing accounts by maintaining and growing their business with the
station
o Proactively develop new client base
o Represent the station in a professional and ethical manner
o Communicate account information and needs to internal staff and complete
appropriate paperwork
o Ability to work independently and in a team atmosphere
Qualifications:
o Previous sales experience preferred
o Ability to develop creative marketing strategies and advertising solutions
o Effective written and verbal communications skills
o Laptop computer suggested
o Computer skills to include excel, power point and word
o Strong client focus
o Ability to develop positive relationships and represent the station in a
professional and ethical manner
o Highly motivated
o Provide own transportation and be able to travel to customer locations
Wage is variable but change due to commission. Benefits such as health insurance
starting the first month after 90 days.
Prefer NCRC (National Career Readiness Certificate) Silver level. For more
information contact your local SD Department of Labor and Regulation office.
Worksite Address:  Yankton, SD 57078

For further information please visit: https://apps.sd.gov/

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                              June 22, 2014 Sunday

Private equity investors eye healthcare sector

LENGTH: 336  words

DATELINE: Kolkata


Kolkata, June 22 -- Foreign development organisations and private equity
investors are looking for "good deals" and "viable models" in the evolving
private healthcare sector in the country. From World Bank's arm IFC,
Commonwealth Development Corporation to a clutch of private equity players, new
opportunities were emerging in day surgery and primary care clinics, maternal
and child care, single speciality on oncology, eye and dental care, observed
participants at a CII meet here on Saturday.


 Mathew Eliot, (Principal Investment Officer, Health and Education, South Asia)
of IFC said its 31 per cent of healthcare investment was in India. Though
recently small deals dominated the scene, opportunities for bigger deals were
likely to arise.
 Low penetration of health insurance and bar of FDI in insurance, however, prove
to be hindrance to investment growth in the healthcare.
 Sunil Sachdeva, co-Founder of Medanta - The Medicity, said various business
models were being experimented both large and small format, capital intensive as
well as on stringent budget.
 "However, primary care in small towns, technology application including mobile
technology could be appropriate for India," he said. He said the sector remains
promoters' passion-driven rather than super profit-oriented. "Profit sustainably
would come from innovations, standardised and ethical practices."
 Srini Nagrajan, Regional Director, south Asia, CDC Group, said a low-cost for
the BIMARU States (Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh) in India
and an Indian African Chain were in the making.
 He said a standard hospital information system including efficient operating
metrics was yet to emerge for the sector in the country.
 Ethical practices and good development of non-medical employee in healthcare
outfits were also need of the hour, he pointed out.
 Glocal Healthcare CEO S Azim said his experience in funding affordable rural
hospitals taught that healthcare entrepreneurs should build for future and
survive in the short run.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                            October 19, 2004 Tuesday
                                  City Edition

Letters

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1072 words

DATELINE: Lincoln, NE


TWO POINTS OF VIEW

I am the mother of two little boys, and I'm also a doctor of pharmacy.  I have
special concern for issues involving health care from two distinct points of
view.

In a recent debate covered by the Lincoln Journal Star, Jeff Fortenberry
supported the use of medical savings accounts.  Individual consumers fund such
accounts to pay for their own health care.  Unused funds in one's account accrue
interest as would a normal savings account.  Fortenberry said that the program
creates incentives for people to use health care prudently.  I appreciate having
more direct control over my children's care, and I support any measure that
places this control in the hands of individuals and their health care providers.

Matt Connealy is against such accounts, saying that they would improve the lot
for some at the expense of others. People who don't need care would favor
accounts, leaving those who do to pay higher costs.

I read this in disbelief.  One signs up for an MSA precisely because one needs
health insurance - not because he doesn't!  But what is most disconcerting is
that he favors those who don't need care paying for those who do.  This
philosophy effectively eliminates the personal motivation for responsibility in
health care decision-making and is a major factor in its runaway costs.

I think Jeff Fortenberry has thought carefully through his positions on health
care, and on such a serious matter to families and health care professionals
alike, this is comforting to see.

Dr. Amy J. Niewald, Lincoln

A CALL TO CITIZENS OF LINCOLN

Voters!  Good citizens of Lincoln!  As you vote for a congressional candidate,
remember who stuck you with a $32,000 bill for his campaign and refused to
reimburse the city.  Rest assured, this is a good example of how he will
represent you in Washington.

If you like being handed the bill and paying his way, by all means vote for Jeff
Fortenberry.  If you like supporting more tax cuts for the wealthy, vote for
Fortenberry.

If you like responsible representation, then vote for someone else.

Herb Naber, Lincoln

NO ROOM TO CRITICIZE

So Peter Singer ("Values Briefs," LJS, Oct. 9) believes President Bush is an "
ethical failure"? Given the messenger, President Bush ought to see this as a
high compliment.

While the article describes Peter Singer as an "ethical philosopher," he is best
known in many circles for advocating, among other things, parents' right to take
the life of a disabled infant. Singer is worse than an ethical failure; he is a
moral monster who has no standing to masquerade as an ethicist or to criticize
Bush.

Jeffrey J. Springer, Lincoln

LAWS ARE FOR EVERYONE

Would someone please explain to me why some bicyclists feel they do not have to
follow the rules of the road?

I live on a road that seems to be a favorite of the bicyclists.  That is fine
with me. But yesterday,  I pulled up to a stop sign and the bicyclist behind me
proceeded to pass me on the right and pull out onto the road without stopping.
In fact, he even threw me a dirty look like I was in his way.

The laws are there for everyone for a reason - so accidents don't happen.  If
this man had gotten hit by a car, it would have been no accident.

Gretchen Kechely, Roca

VOTING FOR A 'REAL' ISSUE

Colleen Martin (letter, Oct. 5) stated that "it would be really great if the
Democrats would quit their whining and stick to the real issues."

I'm voting for John Kerry because of a very "real" issue. My daughter's life is
in danger in Baghdad because President Bush lied. He lied about weapons of mass
destruction and he sent troops to an optional, unnecessary war.

As the mother of a soldier, I understand the risks my child must take to fight
for America's freedom. My daughter joined the Army after Sept. 11, 2001 to fight
the real terrorists, and I'm very proud of her decision.

But America's freedom was not at risk from Saddam Hussein. There was no
connection between Saddam and Osama bin Laden/al-Qaida. My daughter's life is in
danger for no legitimate reason. Bush/Cheney wanted to invade Iraq for various
personal reasons that had nothing to do with America's safety.

America's freedom and American's safety were not improved by the conquering of
Iraq. If anything, we are in more danger than ever because of the anger this
uncalled-for invasion has created in the rest of the Arab world. Now, we own and
occupy a quagmire where more terrorism will brew for the foreseeable future.

The life of my daughter is a "real" enough reason not to vote for Bush.

Jan Cyrus Ford, Lincoln

LIVE WITHIN CITY'S MEANS

I attended the mayor's feedback meeting.  Except for a few people thanking her
for holding the meeting, it was abundantly clear that people were extremely
dissatisfied with the direction city government has been moving in the past 10
years.

Almost everyone, including me, feels that the squandering of tax money by city
government has come to an immediate end. The lack of priorities in spending has
brought us to where we are today.

An example of the foolish squandering of tax money is the double pedestrian
overpass between the new ballpark and the Haymarket area.  Instead of a plain,
serviceable overpass, this $4 million gilt-edged monstrosity was built. Common
sense and priorities would have dictated building a serviceable bridge and used
the rest to repair sidewalks.

Then we get to the Antelope Valley Project.  This project has no priority with
95 percent of the people of Lincoln.  As of right now, the price is given as a
quarter of a billion (and yes, that is with a B for billion) dollars.  Some
contractors tell me that the final cost might run as high as $400 million by the
time it is completed. This project is the zenith of squandering the taxpayers'
money.

So, since the taxpayers of Lincoln have shown a total lack of confidence in the
council and the city government in general, what can they do to try to regain
the confidence and respect they should have?  First, the council should pass an
ordinance that would limit the council from spending more than $100 million on
any one project without the vote of the people.  Second, immediately truncate
the Antelope Valley Project back to no more than $100 million. Third, the
council needs to get over its tendency to gold plate any improvements it
undertakes.

Personally, I drive a seven-year-old car with 100,000 miles on it because I have
to live within my means.  It is about time the city does so also.

Richard L. Draper, Lincoln

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

National Steering Committee to review ethical and legal perspectives of
healthcare in India

BYLINE: EH News Bureau

LENGTH: 743  words


Discuss on how to ensure quality, ethical, easily accessible and affordable care
to all

The inaugural meeting of the National Steering Committee to Review Ethical and
Legal perspectives of Healthcare in India was held recently in Bengaluru. The
committee, consisting of all major medical and hospital societies in the
country, led by the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) and the
Indian Medical Association (IMA), discussed the present scenario among the
medical fraternity, and has representation from the Association of National
Board Accredited Institutions (ANBAI), Christian Coalition for Health India
(CCHI), Consortium of Accredited Healthcare Organizations (CAHO), Academy of
Hospital Administration (AHA), All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS),
Association of Otolaryngologists of India (AOI), Association of Physicians India
(API), Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Medical Officers Association of
ESIC, Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI),
Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), Indian Orthopedic Association (IOA), Indian
Society of Anesthesiologists (ISA), and Indian Radiological and Imaging
Association (IRIA). All these major societies will liaise with their
subspeciality associations so that the entire medical community will be involved
in this important exercise

It was reiterated that the patient is the focus, and as health professionals,
all efforts should be made to ensure provision of quality, ethical, easily
accessible and affordable care to all. This would include standardisation of
care with minimum levels as appropriate.

Communication to and with patients, and their relative and attenders was one
area, which needed improvement. Unethical practices, like taking and giving of
commissions etc. are not acceptable, and also are cause for increased cost of
healthcare.

Recent awards of huge amounts as compensation for medical negligence have been
making the news. Members noted that these verdicts have resulted in a huge
increase in the number of cases filed against doctors, as well as a significant
increase in the premiums paid to insurance companies. Unfortunately, this
results in more expensive medical care, which is borne by the patient as is
evident from the experience in US and other developed countries. In addition,
hospitals and doctors are now reluctant to take on complicated cases for fear of
medico-legal issues, and many have stopped practice. In India, this only adds to
the already severe shortage of specialists. Again, it is the patient who
suffers, deprived of adequate medical care of an acceptable standard. Another
recognised factor for increased cost in these situations is practice of
defensive medicine, an example of which is getting excessive investigations done
by the clinician for fear of being questioned in the court of law.

One solution discussed by the committee was that it may be desirable to place a
cap on the amount that can be awarded in cases of medical negligence, as
practiced in countries such as the US. Dr Marthandam Pillai, President, IMA,
noted that capping could be a reasonable and balanced solution to the problem by
placing a limit on the amount that can be awarded against a hospital or doctor
by any court. The current type of award for medical negligence is unsustainable
and puts a lot of pressure on doctors. Putting a cap on compensation could act
as a deterrent and remind the medical fraternity of the consequences of medical
negligence but without hampering their daily practice, as is currently the case.

Dr Devi Shetty said that 80 per cent of hospital births in India are in
hospitals or nursing homes which have 30 or less beds. These smaller healthcare
facilities in rural and semi-urban areas which provide care to the majority of
patients in our country may have to shut operations if subjected to frivolous
and exorbitant lawsuits.

Dr Alexander Thomas, Executive Director, AHPI mentioned that over the last few
months, IMA and AHPI have set up a working group to tackle the issue. Much work
has already gone into this endeavor by eminent lawyers and medical personnel.

Other solutions recommended to address this issue were to set up arbitration
centers in hospitals, appointing of an Ombudsman in each state and setting up of
a fund where patients would get immediate compensation for catastrophic events.

Professor and Advocate Dr Joga Rao and Dhyan Chinnappa, Senior Advocate also
spoke on the occasion.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2015 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                             June 21, 2014 Saturday

PE investors look to viable biz models in healthcare sector

LENGTH: 355  words

DATELINE: Kolkata


Kolkata, June 21 -- Overseas development organisations and private equity
investors are looking for "good deals" and "viable models" in the evolving
private healthcare sector in the country. From World Bank's arm IFC,
Commonwealth Development Corporation to a clutch of private equity players, new
opportunities were emerging in day surgery and primary care clinics, mother and
child centric care, single specialty on oncology, eye and dental care, observed
participants at a CII meet here on Saturday.


 Mathew Eliot, (Principal Investment Officer, Health and Education, South Asia)
of IFC said its 31 per cent of healthcare investment was in India. Though
recently small deals dominated the scene, opportunities for multiplicity of
bigger deals were likely to arise in emerging spaces within the sector. Low
penetration of health insurance and bar of FDI in insurance, however, prove to
be hindrance to investment growth in the healthcare.
 Sunil Sachdeva, Co-Founder of Medanta - The Medicity, said various business
models were being experimented both large and small format, capital intensive as
well as on stringent budget. "However, primary care in small towns, technology
application including mobile technology could be appropriate for India". He said
the sector remains promoters' passion-driven rather than super profit-oriented.
"Profit sustainably would come from innovations, standardized and ethical
practices.
 Srini Nagrajan, Regional Director, south Asia, CDC Group, said a low-cost for
the BIMARU States in India and an Indian African Chain was in the making. He
said a standard hospital information system including efficient operating
metrics was yet to emerge for the sector in the country. Ethical practices and
good development of non-medical employee in a healthcare outfits were also need
of the hour, he pointed out.
 Glocal Healthcare CEO Dr S Azim said his experience in funding affordable rural
hospitals taught that healthcare entrepreneurs should build for future and
survive in the short run. "Look after every stakeholder including your financier
and employees, it would pay in the long run", he added.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 14, 2001

Society: whats on the site: SocietyGuardian.co.uk

SECTION: Guardian Society Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 149 words


Online chat:

Question time: Is more private medical insurance the answer to the NHS's
problems? The shadow health secretary, Liam Fox, will be online to debate the
Tories' plans for the NHS tomorrow at 3pm.

Jobs:

Career change: Want to find a new job? Search our database of thousands of jobs.

Health:

Golden hellos: Will areas suffering from a shortage of key NHS staff benefit
from the government's proposed cash incentives to attract GPs?

Local government:

Healthy relationship: Can councillors hold the health service to account? Yes,
says hospital trust chair and former council leader Steve Bullock, but only if
they learn to work with other organisations.

Voluntary sector:

Green cash:

As ethical investments become increasingly popular, many NGOs are losing staff
to City fund managers. How will this affect socially responsible investment?


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              145 of 999 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday
                                National Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits

BYLINE: Eric Lam, Finanical Post

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST INVESTING; Pg. FP7

LENGTH: 482  words


The Financial Post takes a weekly look at investing products worthy of a spot in
your kit: This week: ethical investing.

This Saturday, as thousands switch off their lights for Earth Hour, investors
might find their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations to
evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3-million and an expense ratio
of 0.50%. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and
Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the list but
rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19% compared with the TSX 60's 9.74%. So far in 2011 though, the ETF is
slightly ahead posting a 6.92% gain compared with 5.45% for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," Mr. McMahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

erlam@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 5, 2017 Monday

National database puts children with medically complex conditions at risk

LENGTH: 909  words

DATELINE: New York



Austin: University of Rice, The State of Texas  has issued the following news
release:


A proposed national database that would serve as a centralized source of
information on children with medically complex conditions puts those children
and their families at risk for discrimination by making their health information
public, and therefore accessible to employers and health insurers, according to
experts at Rice University's Baker Institute for Public Policy.


Credit: shutterstock.com /Rice University.
Quianta Moore, a scholar in health policy; Tara Blagg, a research associate in
the institute's Center for Health and Biosciences; and Hannah Todd, an intern in
the institute's Domestic Health Policy Program, outlined their insights in a new
issue brief, "Ethical Considerations of a National Database for Children with
Medical Complexity."
Introduced in Congress in 2015, the Advancing Care for Exceptional (ACE) Kids
Act and its proposed database aims to improve treatment and care coordination.

"A national database for children with medical complexity has been lauded as an
opportunity for researchers to improve treatments, families to receive
coordinated care and physicians to provide higher quality care," the authors
wrote. "However, the potential for discrimination against children with medical
complexity and their families related to making their health information public
creates concerns about the potential impact of passing the ACE Kids Act."
Children with complex medical condistion make up approximately 0.5 percent of
all U.S. children but account for almost one-third of all health care spending
for children (about $100 billion). Additionally, in children's hospitals,
children with complex medical conditions account for more than half of hospital
costs for all admissions and 85 percent of the costs for 30-day unplanned
hospital readmissions. The complicated and multifaceted medical needs of these
children require services from different specialties and, frequently, from
different states. As a result, medical care for these children is often
fragmented, the authors said. "Such fragmented care is problematic. Though
children with medical complexity depend on comprehensive care, they have to
navigate a health care system that struggles to effectively coordinate health
care services. This lack of coordination likely contributes to the high rates of
adverse events (such as medical errors) that children with medical complexity
experience compared to all other groups of children."
The 2015 ACE Kids Act proposes a national database in an effort to ameliorate
this issue by providing a centralized source of information on children with
complex medical conditions. This database would draw on state-level databases to
create a single source of information to ensure that physicians would be able to
provide care based on meaningful, evidence-based results.
"Although a national database for children with medical complexity is an
enticing concept due to the potential improvements in research and medical care,
there are ethical implications that make it more complicated," the authors
wrote. "How might storing these children's medical records in a national
database affect their lives and the lives of their families? Medical records
that are widely available can be problematic, because there is a potential for
discrimination."
The authors said the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA)
protects Americans from discrimination by health insurance providers and
employers based on genetic information. Regarding health insurance, it
specifically prohibits health insurance issuers from using genetic information
to determine eligibility, coverage, underwriting or premiums. This includes
information regarding family members. "Unfortunately, GINA only protects an
individual with a genetic predisposition for the disease, but not an individual
actively suffering from said disease," the authors wrote. "As such, if a child
with muscular dystrophy is listed in a national database, the employer of the
child's parent has the right to use this information to determine the cost of
the parent's, and potentially even the family's, health insurance."
GINA specifically aims to prohibit discrimination based on "genetic
information," a diverse set of data that goes beyond mere genetic test results,
the authors said. GINA categorizes family medical history, use of genetic
services and participation in genetic research as "genetic information."
"For children with medical complexity, a national database containing medical
information may not receive the same type of protection," the authors wrote.
"Although many of these children have genetic conditions, protection under GINA
would require that health information from children with medical complexity fall
within the statute's definition of 'genetic information.' For instance, GINA
would likely not provide protection for conditions that have already fully
manifested. On the other hand, it is possible that medical information in the
database could be considered family medical history and could be protected under
GINA, but this is not guaranteed. Thus, there are risks associated with a
national database for children with medical complexity that are not overcome by
the potential benefit of improving care coordination."

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 26, 2017 Friday

National database puts children with medically complex conditions at risk

LENGTH: 909  words

DATELINE: New York



Houston:  Rice University , The state of Taxas has issued the following news
release:
A proposed national database that would serve as a centralized source of
information on children with medically complex conditions puts those children
and their families at risk for discrimination by making their health information
public, and therefore accessible to employers and health insurers, according to
experts at Rice University's Baker Institute for Public Policy.


Credit: shutterstock.com /Rice University.
Quianta Moore, a scholar in health policy; Tara Blagg, a research associate in
the institute's Center for Health and Biosciences; and Hannah Todd, an intern in
the institute's Domestic Health Policy Program, outlined their insights in a new
issue brief, "Ethical Considerations of a National Database for Children with
Medical Complexity."
Introduced in Congress in 2015, the Advancing Care for Exceptional (ACE) Kids
Act and its proposed database aims to improve treatment and care coordination.

"A national database for children with medical complexity has been lauded as an
opportunity for researchers to improve treatments, families to receive
coordinated care and physicians to provide higher quality care," the authors
wrote. "However, the potential for discrimination against children with medical
complexity and their families related to making their health information public
creates concerns about the potential impact of passing the ACE Kids Act."
Children with complex medical condistion make up approximately 0.5 percent of
all U.S. children but account for almost one-third of all health care spending
for children (about $100 billion). Additionally, in children's hospitals,
children with complex medical conditions account for more than half of hospital
costs for all admissions and 85 percent of the costs for 30-day unplanned
hospital readmissions. The complicated and multifaceted medical needs of these
children require services from different specialties and, frequently, from
different states. As a result, medical care for these children is often
fragmented, the authors said. "Such fragmented care is problematic. Though
children with medical complexity depend on comprehensive care, they have to
navigate a health care system that struggles to effectively coordinate health
care services. This lack of coordination likely contributes to the high rates of
adverse events (such as medical errors) that children with medical complexity
experience compared to all other groups of children."
The 2015 ACE Kids Act proposes a national database in an effort to ameliorate
this issue by providing a centralized source of information on children with
complex medical conditions. This database would draw on state-level databases to
create a single source of information to ensure that physicians would be able to
provide care based on meaningful, evidence-based results.
"Although a national database for children with medical complexity is an
enticing concept due to the potential improvements in research and medical care,
there are ethical implications that make it more complicated," the authors
wrote. "How might storing these children's medical records in a national
database affect their lives and the lives of their families? Medical records
that are widely available can be problematic, because there is a potential for
discrimination."
The authors said the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA)
protects Americans from discrimination by health insurance providers and
employers based on genetic information. Regarding health insurance, it
specifically prohibits health insurance issuers from using genetic information
to determine eligibility, coverage, underwriting or premiums. This includes
information regarding family members. "Unfortunately, GINA only protects an
individual with a genetic predisposition for the disease, but not an individual
actively suffering from said disease," the authors wrote. "As such, if a child
with muscular dystrophy is listed in a national database, the employer of the
child's parent has the right to use this information to determine the cost of
the parent's, and potentially even the family's, health insurance."
GINA specifically aims to prohibit discrimination based on "genetic
information," a diverse set of data that goes beyond mere genetic test results,
the authors said. GINA categorizes family medical history, use of genetic
services and participation in genetic research as "genetic information."
"For children with medical complexity, a national database containing medical
information may not receive the same type of protection," the authors wrote.
"Although many of these children have genetic conditions, protection under GINA
would require that health information from children with medical complexity fall
within the statute's definition of 'genetic information.' For instance, GINA
would likely not provide protection for conditions that have already fully
manifested. On the other hand, it is possible that medical information in the
database could be considered family medical history and could be protected under
GINA, but this is not guaranteed. Thus, there are risks associated with a
national database for children with medical complexity that are not overcome by
the potential benefit of improving care coordination."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                              April 4, 2014 Friday

There's no financial, ethical or clinical justification for NHS charges

BYLINE: Jacky Davistheguardian.com

LENGTH: 694 words

ABSTRACT

Jacky Davis: The health industrial complex has been eyeing up the NHS budget for
years. Building the myth that it is 'outdated and unaffordable' is just the
first step

FULL TEXT

Simon Stevens, until recently a vice-president of the US health giant United
Health - and ersthwhile Blairite health adviser to New Labour - took over this
week as the NHS chief executive. It can hardly have been by chance that his
arrival coincided with two new reports recommending the introduction of up-front
charges for NHS care -one from the King's Fund, the other from an unholy
alliance between the former Labour health minister Lord Warner and the rightwing
thinktank Reform.

Both reports start from the unchallenged but erroneous assertion that the NHS is
"unsustainable", and are padded out with a plethora of platitudes about more
care in the community and the merging of health and social care services. But at
their heart are radical recommendations for the introduction of upfront charges
for the NHS. In the case of Reform, this would be a "suggested" £10 "membership
fee".

Research is clear that charges of this sort deter the poor and the elderly - the
very people who need the NHS most - and as a result they present later with more
advanced illness. To Warner and the pundits at Reform £120 a year may not look
much, but it will feel like the last straw to those already struggling with the
consequences of austerity. The public understand this and, as a recent survey
shows, are overwhelmingly against upfront payments.

There is no financial, ethical or clinical argument in favour of upfront charges
for the NHS. The most efficient and the fairest way of funding it is through
progressive central taxation. Flat-rate charges, such as those proposed, would
need to be means-tested, a fact that Warner was forced to concede in a radio
interview. He also admitted that the charges as laid out would only raise £2bn a
year, a drop in the ocean of the NHS funding gap.

This raises the question of the point of introducing a system of means-tested
charges that would almost certainly raise less money than it would cost to
administer. But there is no secret about the agenda here. Reform is funded by
the very people who would benefit from undermining the fundamental principles of
the NHS. The list of their donors includes major insurance companies, management
consultants and private healthcare providers.

Reform is essentially a third party speaking for those whose voice - for good
reason - is not trusted; it is a front for the health industrial complex, which
for years has worked to get its hands on the NHS budget. They understand that
once the fundamental principles of the NHS are breached with upfront payments,
it will be a short step to top-ups, co-payments and insurance to cover the
escalating charges. Hence their enthusiasm for the big conversation about the
"unsustainablity" of the NHS and their solution of saving it with modest direct
charges. Who could possibly be churlish enough to say no?

It is no surprise that neither report mentions far better ways of raising or
saving money for the NHS: £10bn a year could be saved by ending the market in
the English NHS, many more by tackling the PFI debts emptying taxpayers' money
into share holders' pockets - £11bn of infrastructure is costing us over £60bn
to fund. But these solutions would not benefit the backers of Reform.

No politician with any sense would publicly endorse these proposals for charges,
but nevertheless they have served their purpose: they have reinforced the myth
that the NHS is "outdated and unaffordable", and re-animated the zombie policy
that it could be saved by upfront individual payments. With phone-in hosts
trying to persuade callers that it would be entirely reasonable to pay less than
the cost of a tin of salmon each week to save the NHS, Reform's corporate
backers must consider their money to have been well spent.

The rest of us will view this as a poll tax for the NHS and act accordingly.
Simon Stevens, as he takes over the reins of the NHS, should not underestimate
the strength of public feeling against undermining one of the founding
principles of the NHS.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              149 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Gold Coast Bulletin

                             March 24, 2006 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Having faith in choice of super

BYLINE: Denis Doherty

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 733  words


ISN'T choice great . . . as Renton narrates at the start of the popular British
film Trainspotting, 'Choose life, choose a job, choose a career, choose a
family', and so on.

The introduction of choice in superannuation last year heralded a war between
industry and retail funds for the hearts and minds of contributors to super
funds.

It also meant that ethical funds could appeal to workers who were keen to put
their money where their beliefs were.

The latest cab off the ethical rank, Melbourne-based boutique fund manager
Intrinsic Investment Management, has signed an agreement with the Muslim
Community Co-operative of Australia to supply a version of its new managed
discretionary accounts product that fully meets Islamic Sharia law.

To be called the Crescent Ethical MDA, the fund will enable many Muslims to
invest while adhering to a strict religious code.

According to Intrinsic managing director Glenn Woolley, minimum investment in
the fund will be $100,000 and fees will be shared with the MCCA.

''This is the only product (in Australia) that has been endorsed by the Islam
scholars to comply with Sharia law,'' said Mr Woolley.

''Investors will be able to pick which stocks they want in their managed
portfolio, enabling them to avoid traditional problem sectors such as alcohol
and gaming stocks.

''In addition, as Muslims are prohibited from receiving interest payments of any
form, the fund allows individuals to avoid bank stocks.''

So Muslims investing in the fund would know where their money goes and avoid any
of the pitfalls of non-faith based investments, which is more than most.

According to a survey by Max Super, 72 per cent respondents thought
superannuation funds were too confusing and complicated.

When compared with other service providers such as banks and telecoms, the
results were even more astounding, said Max Super chief executive officer Andrew
Barlow.

''Many superannuation providers overcomplicate communication with both members
and prospective members,'' said Mr Barlow.

''Product disclosure statements can be very complex.

''They're a typical example of why people find super so confusing and why it's
difficult to engage them in what could potentially be their biggest asset in
life.''

According to the survey, 63 per cent of respondents found superannuation funds
more confusing than mobile phone contracts, while 50 per cent of respondents
thought health insurance was less of a minefield. As well, 63 per cent of those
surveyed found dealing with the banks to open a savings accounts easier, while
47 per cent found that applying for home loans was less of a challenge.

Tellingly, no majority surveyed found super easier to understand when asked to
compare it with some other services.

''The confusion with super has stemmed from a number of places,'' said Mr
Barlow.

''Generally, consumers do not have a means to easily compare funds, especially
in terms of performance, fees and investment

options.

''The financial terms and paper- work are too complex for most, and the key
information required to make decisions is buried in websites or annual
reports.''

Adding to this, funds can use overwhelming communication as a retention strategy
to prevent their members from moving from one fund to another, he said.

Mr Barlow quoted some examples that have been received by Max Super members from
other super funds when attempting to roll over their super.

One member said: ''If your policy is unitised the actual policy value at
withdrawal will usually be calculated using unit price available at the time of
payment.

''Your policy may be subject to actuarial calculation and there-fore quoted
values may change.

''You should note that an allocated pension or annuity does not qualify as a
complying pension or annuity for RBL purposes.

''Transitional RBL arrangements apply to persons who can establish a higher RBL
under the pre-July 1, 1994 regime.''

Mr Barlow said: ''While such information may be technically correct, it is often
presented in a manner that is difficult to understand and daunting to members.''

He said 'the confusion out there was clearly paralysing, with only 7 per cent of
the population having switched to a new fund since super choice was introduced
last July'.

Super funds, he added, needed to connect with their members and help to build
their understanding and the Government needed to educate and standardise
processes and procedures in the industry.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                        July 5, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Aflac Named to Computerworld's List of Best Places to Work in IT

LENGTH: 688  words


Dubai, July 5 -- Aflac, the number one provider of supplemental insurance in the
United States, has been named as one of IDG Computerworld's 2013 Best Places to
Work in IT. It is the 14th time that Aflac has appeared on Computerworld's
prestigious list.



According to Computerworld, the Best Places to Work in Information Technology
(IT) list is an annual ranking of the top 100 work environments for technology
professionals. Inclusion on the list signifies that Aflac is among the top 100
organizations that challenge their IT staffs while providing great benefits and
compensation.

"Aflac takes great pride in consistently offering a work environment worthy of
inclusion on Computerworld's list of Best Places to Work in IT," Aflac Executive
Vice President and Chief Service Officer Teresa White said. "This honor
validates our commitment to maintaining a diverse workforce, providing excellent
benefits, and a strong adherence to ethical business practices. We strive to
make Aflac a place where people are proud to come to work each and every day."

"We applaud the organizations on the Best Places to Work in IT list for creating
and sustaining dynamic IT work environments," said Scot Finnie, editor in chief
of Computerworld. "This year, several new names have joined the stalwarts that
make the list year after year. It's clear that the best IT workplaces are
constantly raising the bar with great benefits, new learning opportunities,
access to cutting-edge technologies and challenging business-critical projects."


Computerworld's annual list of Best Places to Work in IT is based on a
comprehensive questionnaire regarding company offerings in categories such as
benefits, diversity, career development, training and retention. In addition,
Computerworld conducts extensive surveys of IT workers, which factor heavily in
determining the rankings.

Aflac and other companies appearing on the list appear in the June 17th issue of
Computerworld and Computerworld.com, along with the results of the 2013
questionnaire.

About Aflac When a policyholder gets sick or hurt, Aflac pays cash benefits
fast. For nearly six decades, Aflac insurance policies have given policyholders
the opportunity to focus on recovery, not financial stress. In the United
States, Aflac is the number one provider of guaranteed-renewable insurance. In
Japan, Aflac is the number one life insurance company in terms of individual
policies in force. Aflac individual and group insurance products provide
protection to more than 50 million people worldwide. For seven consecutive
years, Aflac has been recognized by Ethisphere magazine as one of the World's
Most Ethical Companies. In 2013, FORTUNE magazine recognized Aflac as one of the
100 Best Companies to Work For in America for the 15th consecutive year. Also,
in 2013, FORTUNE magazine included Aflac on its list of Most Admired Companies
for the 12th time, ranking the company number one in the life and health
insurance category. Aflac Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company listed on the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AFL. To find out more about Aflac,
visit aflac.com or espanol.aflac.com.

About Computerworld Computerworld is the leading source of technology news and
information for IT influencers, providing peer perspective, IT leadership and
business results. Computerworld's award-winning website (www.computerworld.com),
publication, focused conference series, custom solutions and custom research
forms the hub of the world's largest (40+ edition) global IT media network and
provides opportunities for IT solutions providers to engage this audience.
Computerworld leads the industry with an online audience of over 3.8 million
unique, monthly visitors (Omniture, November 2012) and was recognized as the
Best Website by ASBPE and TABPI in 2012. Computerworld is published by IDG
Enterprise, a subsidiary of International Data Group (IDG), the world's leading
media, events and research company. Company information is available at
www.idgenterprise.com.

Aflac herein means American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus and
American Family Life Assurance Company of New York.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                       June 20, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Aflac Named to Computerworld's List of Best Places to Work in IT

LENGTH: 689  words


New Delhi, June 20 -- Aflac, the number one provider of supplemental insurance
in the United States, has been named as one of IDG Computerworld's 2013 Best
Places to Work in IT. It is the 14th time that Aflac has appeared on
Computerworld's prestigious list.



According to Computerworld, the Best Places to Work in Information Technology
(IT) list is an annual ranking of the top 100 work environments for technology
professionals. Inclusion on the list signifies that Aflac is among the top 100
organizations that challenge their IT staffs while providing great benefits and
compensation.

"Aflac takes great pride in consistently offering a work environment worthy of
inclusion on Computerworld's list of Best Places to Work in IT," Aflac Executive
Vice President and Chief Service Officer Teresa White said. "This honor
validates our commitment to maintaining a diverse workforce, providing excellent
benefits, and a strong adherence to ethical business practices. We strive to
make Aflac a place where people are proud to come to work each and every day."

"We applaud the organizations on the Best Places to Work in IT list for creating
and sustaining dynamic IT work environments," said Scot Finnie, editor in chief
of Computerworld. "This year, several new names have joined the stalwarts that
make the list year after year. It's clear that the best IT workplaces are
constantly raising the bar with great benefits, new learning opportunities,
access to cutting-edge technologies and challenging business-critical projects."


Computerworld's annual list of Best Places to Work in IT is based on a
comprehensive questionnaire regarding company offerings in categories such as
benefits, diversity, career development, training and retention. In addition,
Computerworld conducts extensive surveys of IT workers, which factor heavily in
determining the rankings.

Aflac and other companies appearing on the list appear in the June 17th issue of
Computerworld and Computerworld.com, along with the results of the 2013
questionnaire.

About Aflac When a policyholder gets sick or hurt, Aflac pays cash benefits
fast. For nearly six decades, Aflac insurance policies have given policyholders
the opportunity to focus on recovery, not financial stress. In the United
States, Aflac is the number one provider of guaranteed-renewable insurance. In
Japan, Aflac is the number one life insurance company in terms of individual
policies in force. Aflac individual and group insurance products provide
protection to more than 50 million people worldwide. For seven consecutive
years, Aflac has been recognized by Ethisphere magazine as one of the World's
Most Ethical Companies. In 2013, FORTUNE magazine recognized Aflac as one of the
100 Best Companies to Work For in America for the 15th consecutive year. Also,
in 2013, FORTUNE magazine included Aflac on its list of Most Admired Companies
for the 12th time, ranking the company number one in the life and health
insurance category. Aflac Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company listed on the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AFL. To find out more about Aflac,
visit aflac.com or espanol.aflac.com.

About Computerworld Computerworld is the leading source of technology news and
information for IT influencers, providing peer perspective, IT leadership and
business results. Computerworld's award-winning website (www.computerworld.com),
publication, focused conference series, custom solutions and custom research
forms the hub of the world's largest (40+ edition) global IT media network and
provides opportunities for IT solutions providers to engage this audience.
Computerworld leads the industry with an online audience of over 3.8 million
unique, monthly visitors (Omniture, November 2012) and was recognized as the
Best Website by ASBPE and TABPI in 2012. Computerworld is published by IDG
Enterprise, a subsidiary of International Data Group (IDG), the world's leading
media, events and research company. Company information is available at
www.idgenterprise.com.

Aflac herein means American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus and
American Family Life Assurance Company of New York.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            December 9, 2005 Friday

Hot-rock firm receives award

BYLINE: CAMERON ENGLAND

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 154 words


HOT-rocks energy-source explorer Geodynamics has been named the sustainable
small company of the year by online publication Ethical Investor.

Geodynamics is working on a process that produces energy from hot granite 3km or
more below ground level in the South Australian Outback.

The hot-dry-rocks technology involves pumping water into a well drilled by the
company and using the superheated steam which returns to the surface via a
separate well to generate electricity.

Ethical Investor  said along with pursuing its zero-emission technology,
Geodynamics "has also shown that it can deal with, and report honestly on,
engineering setbacks while also showing that it can develop its business (and)
raise capital".

Westpac was named sustainable company of the year, Bendigo Bank received an
award for social/community impact and Insurance Australia Group received a
special award for corporate governance.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              153 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 25, 1999, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Many Doctors Support Lying to Help Patients

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 24


Many physicians approve of deceiving insurance companies or health maintenance
organizations to secure payment for treatment if patients cannot get it another
way, a survey has found.

The survey of 169 internists in eight cities found that 58 percent considered it
ethical to lie for a patient who needed a heart bypass operation, and 48 percent
considered it ethical to lie to get intravenous pain medication and nutrition
for a dying cancer patient.

The percentages were lower for less serious conditions, researchers said in
Monday's issue of the American Medical Association's Archives of Internal
Medicine.

The doctors were not asked whether they had ever lied or would lie -- only
whether it would be justifiablefor a physician to do so.

The mailed survey posed hypothetical treatment situations.

Most physicians, 76 percent, "believed their primary professional responsibility
was to practice as their 'patient's advocate,' " said researchers led by Dr.
Victor Freeman of Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington.

The margins of error were different in each hypothetical case and typically were
5 to 10 percentage points, one of the authors said.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright (c) 1997 Cumberland Law Review
                             Cumberland Law Review

                                  1997 / 1998

                               Mercer Law Review

                              28 Cumb. L. Rev. 321

LENGTH: 976 words

COMMENTS: RESPONSE TO PROFESSOR MARK HALL

NAME: Stephen T. Mennemeyer *

BIO:



   * Associate Professor, School of Public Health, University of Alabama at
Birmingham. Ph.D. (Economics), State University of New York at Buffalo, 1977.

 TEXT:
 [*321]

   Many of the "ethical" issues raised by Mark Hall are primarily questions
about monitoring contracts to discourage fraud. The goals of managed care are
surprisingly similar to the decision rules that consumers use in many areas of
their daily lives. If a managed care plan is operating honestly, physicians
should have no moral qualms about joining the enterprise.

   Consider how the incentives of managed care work. In recent years, various
forms of "managed care" health insurance have emerged under which a consumer
pays for all of his health care with a fixed annual premium plus a modest
co-payment whenever he actually uses a service. Managed care organizations have
offered consumers "complete" health care at a predictable expense that is quite
attractive compared to traditional health insurance. This bargain has become
available by getting health care providers and consumers to agree to a contract
that pushes them to observe the rule that a service will be provided only if its
marginal benefit is greater than or at least equal to its marginal cost. This
simple purchasing rule is the same one that a consumer observes when purchasing
all other goods and services, but its application in health care is apparently
viewed with great moral alarm. Under a traditional insurance system, physicians
were encouraged to advocate the consumption of health care services as long as a
marginal benefit was not negative, or to "do no harm." This left a lot of room
for purchases that the consumer herself would have rejected had she been paying
for them on the same terms as other necessities of life. Should we really
consider the traditional system to be morally superior to the new one? I do not
think so.

   The main problem in health insurance is "moral hazard": the tendency of a
consumer to be less careful in his habits and more extensive in his utilization
after he has become insured. Insurance contracts have several options to
counteract moral hazard including: (1) charging a premium that is high enough to
pay for this adverse behavior; (2) imposing very detailed monitoring rules and
queues for service; or (3) creating finan [*322]  cial incentives for health
care providers and consumers that encourage the equating of marginal benefit
with marginal cost. Traditional health insurance used the first option with the
result that health insurance became very expensive. The second option is
characteristic of national health insurance programs; it typically places a low
value on the patient's own time relative to the need to keep costs under
control. The result is long waiting times. The third option is the approach of
managed care.

   Ethical formation of a voluntary contract requires that both parties fully
understand what they are getting into, how they will measure performance, and
how they will resolve any disputes. To make sure that enrollees understand the
contract, managed care organizations ought to be very forthright about their
operating philosophy. This may include statements such as: "Our plan will avoid
or delay surgery in favor of watchful monitoring of conditions such as....";
"Our plan will not approve new treatments that have not yet been shown to be
effective in randomized clinical trials"; "Our plan will actively encourage
prevention and early detection of the following conditions... "; "Our plan
discourages screening tests with low sensitivity or specificity such as...."; or
"Our plan does not cover the following...." In short, warn the consumer that
some things will be denied in return for an attractive monthly premium.

   Proof that a managed care plan is living up to its end of the bargain is not
the easiest thing to determine. Inevitably some patients will regret that they
agreed to forego treatments for which marginal benefit was less than marginal
cost. Subjective valuations of marginal benefit may vastly exceed objective
measures that governed the formation of the contract. Objective proof that the
plan is keeping its agreement lies in the realm of statistical monitoring and
routine review of problematic cases.

   Because it can be profitable, at least in the short run, to skimp on the
provision of services, managed care plans should agree to an independent audit
of their performance. The audit should use benchmarks of good performance. It
should mainly address the statistical question of whether the managed care plan
delivered as much care as would be expected for the enrolled population. Failing
this type of statistical audit would support the hypothesis that the plan had,
in fact, yielded to the temptation to skimp on care for its own profit. The
statistical audit would address issues such as the following: Did certain
percentages of patients in certain age groups receive certain preventive
treatments or certain screening tests? Are treatment protocols in conformance
with the best practices currently recommended? Are the protocols adhered to in
daily practice? Do  [*323]  financial incentives encourage physicians to follow
the recommended protocols? Is there a timely appeals process to resolve disputes
and verify that the organization is living up to its end of the bargain? Why did
former customers withdraw or choose not to reenroll? In a given year, a plan
might deliver slightly less care than the statistically predicted amount.
Serious or continuing under-delivery should be subject to corrective action and
liquidated damages.

   Physicians should not have moral qualms about joining a managed care plan
that has a good system for measuring performance and adjusting treatment
protocols in light of new scientific evidence. In such an organization, a very
high percentage of patients will consistently get good care. They may well be
better off, in both their health and their finances, than their counterparts
under fee-for-service.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
EvidenceScientific EvidenceGeneral OverviewHealthcare
LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral Overview


                              155 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 10, 2013 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reasons for Outrage on Health Care

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 636 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Diagnosis: Insufficient Outrage,'' by H. Gilbert Welch (Op-Ed, July 5):

As medical ''cost sharing'' (read: ''cost shifting'') grows, hidden costs will
be revealed, and outrage, already simmering, can be counted on coming to a boil.
We need to stop pretending that the rules of the market will provide us with
high-quality, high-value health care and join the rest of the developed world
with universal health insurance.

Medicare's 48th birthday is coming up this month. Let's expand and improve on
this most successful and popular of American institutions with publicly financed
and privately delivered single-payer health care for all.

LAURA S. BOYLAN New York, July 5, 2013

The writer is a clinical associate professor of neurology at New York University
School of Medicine.

To the Editor:

We doctors should ''rage'' against a system so perverse that on any given day a
physician may treat 15 patients with as many insurance plans requiring
unproductive paperwork. It is a system so perverse that it forces us to hire
clerks whose only role is to seek authorization for needed procedures.

It is a system so skewed against us that a letter from a lawyer sets our hearts
racing. A system so out of control that chief executives of major insurance
companies make salaries in the millions of dollars as we doctors struggle to
meet payroll and pay the rent.

The excesses in the system may justifiably lead to outrage, but we doctors are
likewise outraged at the blame heaped upon us for a failed system not of our
creation.

MELVIN W. YOUNG Dover, Vt., July 5, 2013

The writer is a cardiologist.

To the Editor:

H. Gilbert Welch correctly points out that medicine should be about patients,
not profits, while questioning at what point the practices of many of our
colleagues might constitute crimes, ethical if not legal.

Almost all American medical school graduates take some form of the Hippocratic
oath when receiving their M.D. degrees. With this oath, they swear to practice
medicine honestly.

For many if not most of these young physicians, those sacred words are quickly
forgotten amid the sobering realities of medical practice in our country, where
health care is provided in an environment ripe for entrepreneurs primarily
motivated by financial profit.

There is insufficient outrage because the socioeconomic class most negatively
affected by the uneven availability and perverse incentives of the system are
least able to make their voices heard. Perhaps it would be salutary to remind
physicians periodically of the finest traditions of their calling embodied in
the Hippocratic oath, including the joy of healing the sick who seek their help.

VIJAY K. SIKAND East Lyme, Conn., July 5, 2013

The writer, a family physician, is an adjunct assistant professor of medicine at
Tufts University School of Medicine.

To the Editor:

H. Gilbert Welch points out that the system of financing health care raises
serious ethical issues over the practice of medicine where the incentives are to
increase revenues rather than serve the best interests of the patients.

As Dr. Welch notes, the list price charged for various procedures is highly
inflated but paid only by a limited few -- certainly not Medicare, Medicaid or
private insurers or other health plans that negotiate discounts with hospitals.

Only the uninsured are charged the full list price. Many of them are young
people just starting out who do not have the resources to pay for private health
insurance. It is the same cohort of young people that we have burdened with
student debt.

What is the message to these young people we claim are our future: if you want a
college education or access to the health care system, figure out how to pay for
it?

STAN ALTMAN New York, July 5, 2013

The writer is a professor in the School of Public Affairs at Baruch College,
CUNY.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/10/opinion/reasons-for-outrage-on-health-care.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 24, 2016 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

French Insurer AXA to Exit Tobacco Investments After Activists' Campaign

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 452 words


PARIS -- The French insurer AXA Group said on Monday that it would join the
global movement to exit tobacco investments by unloading about $2 billion in
cigarette company stocks and bonds.

The decision to exit such investments comes after a campaign by activists at the
Union for International Cancer Control, the Tobacco Free Portfolios initiative
and other organizations. AXA, which is based in Paris, said on Monday that it
would immediately unload about 200 million euros, or about $224 million, of
tobacco stocks, and that it would sell off its portfolio of tobacco company
bonds, valued around ?1.6 billion, as they matured.

The move puts an end to the apparent conflict involved with a financial
institution that has enormous health and life insurance businesses investing in
a product known to cause cancer and other diseases. AXA is one of the world's
top insurance and wealth management companies, with 103 million clients, and
revenue last year of ?99 billion.

''We strongly believe in the positive role insurance can play in society, and
that insurers are part of the solution when it comes to health prevention to
protect our clients,'' Thomas Buberl, AXA's deputy chief executive, said in a
statement. ''Hence, it makes no sense for us to continue our investments within
the tobacco industry.''

AXA's announcement on Monday is the latest involving investors divesting
themselves of tobacco. Six years ago, the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund, a
titan of so-called ethical investing, announced that it was dropping tobacco
from its portfolio.

Many individual investors are not even aware that their mutual funds or
retirement accounts include tobacco stocks, but those who act to buy only
ethical investments find there can be a financial price to pay.

Indeed, the cost of such divestment can be significant. The California Public
Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, decided in 2000 to divest its tobacco
investments. It is now rethinking that decision, after a study found that
divestment had caused it to miss out on $3 billion in investment gains.

Mr. Buberl acknowledged that the decision ''has a cost for us, but the case for
divestment is clear: The human cost of tobacco is tragic; its economic cost is
huge.''

AXA noted that tobacco was ''the major cause of long-term noncommunicable
diseases,'' responsible for the deaths of six million people each year.

''We need companies like AXA to signal that investing in an industry which kills
its customers is simply the wrong thing to do,'' Cary Adams, chief executive of
the Union for International Cancer Control, said in the same statement, ''and
this announcement to divest ?1.8 billion is a milestone step in the right
direction.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/24/business/dealbook/france-axa-investments-tobac
co.html

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                      June 30, 2004 Wednesday Home Edition

Regulator's marriage stirs flap;
Spouse works for big insurer

BYLINE: ANDY MILLER

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Business; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 840 words


Georgia Insurance Commissioner John Oxendine recently married an employee of the
largest health insurance company he regulates, raising ethical and political
questions for him.

Oxendine married Ivy Dunn, a regional sales executive with Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Georgia, in December.

The relationship apparently doesn't violate state law or ethics rules. Still,
political scientists and a watchdog group say it raises conflict of interest
issues and may hurt him politically. Oxendine has announced he is a candidate
for lieutenant governor in 2006.

"You're not supposed to use your office for personal gain or that of your
family," said Bill Bozarth, executive director of Common Cause Georgia, a public
interest group. "Oxendine has made some decisions that affect this company. He
should have recused himself."

Oxendine said Tuesday that by law, he can't recuse himself in agency decisions.
"The appellate courts have stated that marital relations do not represent a
conflict of interest," he added.

Oxendine, insurance commissioner since 1995, has made recent significant
decisions involving Blue Cross.

This month he approved the merger of Blue Cross' parent company, WellPoint
Health Networks, with Indianapolis-based Anthem. The merger still needs approval
by the state of California. In the meantime, Blue Cross of Georgia reported that
32 of its executives could receive bonuses averaging $425,000 if the merger
occurs. Blue Cross said Ivy Oxendine is not among the 32, but the company
declined to provide a list of those executives.

Blue Cross declined to make Ivy Oxendine available for an interview, and a phone
call to her office was not returned. Oxendine said he does not know whether his
wife owns WellPoint stock.

Oxendine has also approved double-digit percentage rate increases for Blue Cross
insurance plans in the last two years, as he has for other insurers.

Ivy Oxendine oversees sales of health insurance for individuals and small
employers in the company's Macon region, working out of Macon and Atlanta.

Oxendine said his wife's job has remained the same since before they began
dating in October 2002. "Her job isn't influenced by the decisions I make," he
said. "I'd have to shut down the company to affect her job."

He added that in routine matters such as rate increases, he follows staff
recommendations. "With Blue Cross, especially since I've been married, I've
followed the staff's recommendation every single time."

He said he doubts the public cares about the marriage issue. "I think the public
acknowledges and respects the fact that people have careers independent of their
spouse," he said. "What am I supposed to do --- not get married? Tell my wife
that she has to quit her job?"

Blue Cross covers about 40 percent of Georgians who have private health
insurance. The company's rate boosts have been within the range of all insurance
increases in Georgia, said Charlie Harman, a Blue Cross vice president.

Charles Bullock, a University of Georgia political science professor, said the
marriage "is going to open [Oxendine] up for questions --- whether he has
favored his wife's company in decisions." Bullock said Oxendine has left himself
open to attack from political opponents.

State ethics law does not address a situation like this, said Theodore Lee,
executive secretary of the State Ethics Commission. Lee added that such a
situation "obviously raises questions ... of the public interest vs. the
interests of a family member."

The marriage has "great potential for conflict of interest," said Larry Sabato,
director of the University of Virginia's Center for Politics. "Anything he would
do to build up Blue Cross would help his wife."

Sabato said Oxendine could protect himself by issuing a statement that he would
not make decisions concerning Blue Cross and designating someone else in his
department to make them.

"If he has done nothing, that's stunning," Sabato said. "This can be perfectly
legal, but be unwise politically and ethically."

California is the last of 11 states whose approval is required for Anthem's
proposed $16.4 billion acquisition of WellPoint. Shareholders of Anthem and
WellPoint approved the merger Monday.

Oxendine has had scrapes with state ethics officials. In April, he repaid the
state $25,000 for a car he bought with state funds after the inspector general
found that Oxendine willfully disregarded a moratorium on the purchase of new
vehicles.

Emil Runge, spokesman for the state Democratic Party, said Oxendine has a
history of ethical problems. "That includes shaking down companies he regulates
for money and abusing tax dollars by arrogantly purchasing a luxury car in a
tight budget," Runge said. "His deplorable conduct in office definitely merits a
deeper investigation on this matter."

But state Republican Party spokesman Marty Klein said there's no conflict of
interest. "His record speaks for itself. John Oxendine has always been an
independent voice for the people."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Insurance chief John Oxendine's nuptials have raised ethical
questions.

                Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              158 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        The Independent (United Kingdom)

                              May 29, 2016 Sunday
                                 First Edition

ETHICAL INVESTING CAN BE AS HARD AS QUITTING SMOKING;
The moral high ground can end up losing you money

BYLINE: DAVID PROSSER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 75

LENGTH: 971 words


It is easy to be cynical about the announcement by the French insurer Axa that,
for ethical reasons, it will no longer invest in tobacco companies and will
offload £1.3bn-worth of investments it holds in such businesses.

In fact, tobacco shares have been on an impressive run this year - up close to
10 per cent already - but their future looks troubled, given the number of
people giving up smoking and increasingly stringent restrictions on packaging.
It looks like a good time to cash in.

In the UK, just 19 per cent of adults now smoke according to Action on Smoking
and Health (Ash), down from 27 per cent two decades ago.

However, investors in tobacco businesses have more reason to be optimistic about
their prospects than you might think. While smoking is on the decline in Western
markets, the opposite is true elsewhere. In developing economies, with huge
populations in Asia and Africa in particular, smoking is growing strongly - up
by more than 50 per cent since 1990 according to Ash's estimates. Moreover, the
big tobacco companies are all eyeing the fast-growing e-cigarette and vaping
market as a potential new source of revenues.

In fact, the sector is so attractive that some investors that have previously
pulled out of tobacco stocks are now considering making a return. In the US, the
giant pension fund CalPERS has published analysis suggesting that its withdrawal
from tobacco five years ago could now be costing it more than $100m every year
in lost returns. It is now considering whether to give up giving up.

At Axa, however, senior managers insist they are right to take the moral high
ground. The company wants to "support the efforts of governments around the
world" on reducing smoking, it says, and feels increasingly uncomfortable with
holding shares in companies whose products are harmful to health when one of its
most important lines of business is health insurance.

So if you're a customer of Axa who shares its view that big tobacco is a nasty
industry to be avoided, you can now surely rest assured that your money won't
end up in such investments, right? Well, don't rush to that assumption. In fact,
Axa's announcement only applies to its own holdings in the tobacco industry -
and, crucially, not to the funds its Axa Investment Managers arm runs on behalf
of thousands of investors all around the world.

If you invest in one of those funds, you'll have to check what its managers'
policy is on tobacco investment - or even whether it has one.

But this is just the latest example of the dilemma faced by anyone who wants to
invest in accordance with their principles. While it's simple enough for you
personally to avoid direct investments in companies with which you feel morally
uncomfortable - whether tobacco stocks, shares in weapons manufacturers,
businesses that pollute the environment, or something else - as soon as you give
your money to a third party, the waters get very muddy very quickly.

Just ask staff at the British Heart Foundation, for example, who were shocked to
discover a few years back that the charity's pension fund invested in a number
of tobacco companies despite the links between smoking and heart disease. Or
what about the Church of England, whose past investments have included payday
lenders and arms companies? Broadly speaking, there are only two ways to be sure
your money isn't being invested in companies that you don't want to support for
ethical reasons.

The first option is to check individually with every organisation that manages
money on your behalf. That means fund managers, including Isa providers, pension
companies and your workplace pension scheme, but also charities and similar
bodies to which you give money; you should also think hard about the banks and
building societies where you deposit money, as they may make loans to companies
you don't like.

Only by asking every one of these organisations what their policy is on
investing in certain types of company can you be sure whether your money is at
risk of ending up somewhere you don't want it to go. If there is no policy, it's
possible you'll be an investor in such companies - either now or in the future.

Option number two is to save and invest only via ethical or socially responsible
financial services companies and funds. These organisations explicitly avoid any
dealings with specified industries, so that you can too. Even here, however,
you'll need to read the small print - different providers take different views
about which industries should be avoided and how exactly to screen out them out.

Are ethical investment funds for you?

Patrick Connolly, a certified financial planner at independent financial adviser
Chase de Vere, warns ethical investment funds require a degree of compromise.
You'll need to accept that no single fund is likely to have a policy that sits
perfectly in tune with your specific values. Also, ethical investment funds will
deliver a different type of return: there will be times when they miss out on
the gains made by shares they avoid, plus performance is likely to be more
volatile since they are more likely to invest in smaller businesses.

Against that, many specialist ethical investors argue that companies that engage
in immoral businesses or are socially irresponsible will perform less well over
the longer term. They're likely to face regulatory sanction, political action
such as higher taxes, and to suffer from reputational issues.

From a broad universe, Connolly recommends a number of ethical funds for those
minded to invest in this way. "We like Aberdeen Ethical World Equity, Standard
Life UK Ethical, Kames Ethical Equity, Kames Ethical Corporate Bond and Rathbone
Ethical Bond funds," he says.

Want your views to be included in the The Independent Daily Edition's letters
page? Email us by tapping here letters@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2016 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           December 31, 2016 Saturday

Silicon Valley taught us a new ethics lesson in 2016

BYLINE: By Elaine Ou Bloomberg View

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 867 words


2016 hasn't been a brilliant year for Silicon Valley.

Lawsuits and regulatory investigations have shed light on the antics of
high-profile companies such as Theranos, Zenefits, Hampton Creek and Hyperloop
One.

Even outside of public scandal, dubious tactics abound.

A recent Fortune column asks whether Silicon Valley pushes ethical boundaries
too far. Has cutthroat competition led the righteous industry to lose sight of
its moral values?

Silicon Valley has an innovative and nuanced view of ethical boundaries. Y
Combinator founder and investor Paul Graham wrote a guide explaining what his
fund looks for when making investments. As he sees it, the most successful
founders are the ones that "delight in breaking rules, but not rules that
matter."

"Rules that matter" is a subjective idea, and it's especially fuzzy in the minds
of the young technologists who receive investor capital.

When the creator of a file-sharing company decided to start Uber, he felt that
local taxi regulations were not rules that mattered. With no background in
health insurance, the founder of Zenefits decided that state licensing
requirements might not matter. For a 19-year-old Stanford dropout with no
medical training, even FDA regulations don't matter.

And if these young entrepreneurs can't understand the rules governing their own
industry, how can they be expected to appreciate abstract ideas like generally
accepted accounting principles or securities fraud?

Silicon Valley sees itself as a beacon of virtue constantly under assault by
unethical players in a hopelessly corrupt system. The downside of such
conviction is that young idealists come to rationalize bizarre actions against
anything that stands in their way.

Tight-fisted investors are barriers who need to be swayed with inflated growth
metrics. Facts are inconvenient truths to be papered over with exaggerated
marketing hype. Regulatory requirements impose artificial limits on the market
and can be circumvented.

Much of the appeal behind funding young college dropouts is that their minds
haven't been corrupted by the establishment, so they have the ability to
approach problems with fresh eyes and Think Different. Startups aim to disrupt
legacy industries not for sheer sake of anarchy; they do so because they believe
the incumbents have gained a coercive monopoly through regulatory capture and
hence are economically inefficient. If regulations exist, it's only to protect
the establishment from competition. Venture-backed companies genuinely do want
to make the world a better place, but the world can't seem to get out of their
way.

Most regulations make some attempt at protecting the public interest, but the
fact that industry rules are defended by highly paid lobbyists suggests that
they might serve less altruistic purposes as well. Uber's success exposed the
incredible inefficiency of the taxi medallion system.

Zenefits recently ran into trouble with Washington state's insurance regulators
for providing customers with free human resources software. According to the
Washington insurance commission, free software violates anti-rebating law. The
general counsel of Zenefits argues that the commissioner is trying to raise
prices for consumers. The high-profile blowup of Theranos distracts from the
dozens of legitimate health-technology companies that failed to navigate the
FDA's notoriously bureaucratic labyrinth.

As Paul Graham says, "It is the people who break rules that are the source of
America's wealth and power." The people who break rules are also the source of
America's prison population, but on a global scale Graham's statement is
historically correct.

For hundreds of years, medieval craftsmen formed guilds to limit competition and
protect the exclusivity of their trade. In rural areas, independent
practitioners took up knitting and weaving in cottage homes. Even though guild
members periodically sent expeditions to destroy unauthorized equipment in the
countryside, business people realized that contracting with individuals outside
the guild system gave them greater ability to expand operations. These cottage
industries provided the scalable production systems that later led to the
Industrial Revolution.

Even the 19th-century Luddites were concerned about the loss of monopoly
privileges. They destroyed machinery not because they disliked technology, but
because they felt that manufacturers were using machines to get around standard
labor practices. The Luddites wanted machines to be run by workers who had gone
through an apprenticeship, just as they had.

We criticize Silicon Valley's blatant disregard for rules and procedures, but
it's this same disregard that makes the industry capable of changing the world.
The point is not to blithely break rules, but to question whether existing rules
always make sense.

Condemning all regulatory transgressions as a Silicon Valley ethics problem just
means that the next self-righteous idealist will come along and make the exact
same mistakes, and that the only way for anyone to succeed is to become as
dismal as the industries they set out to displace.

- Ou is a blockchain engineer at Global Financial Access, a financial technology
company in San Francisco.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Courier

                             April 8, 2017 Saturday
                                 Print Edition

Letters

SECTION: SATURDAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 338 words


No wonder people are falling out of health insurance in droves. My daughter
received a quote of $1371 to have four wisdom teeth extracted, and an additional
$1608 for the anaesthetic. Apparently they bring someone in from out of town.
Don't we have enough in Ballarat? Private extras health insurance rebate is $192
and $200 respectively, leaving a total of nearly $2600 out of pocket. My
daughter has paid private insurance all her working life, with minimal claims.
She would have been better off banking the premium paid and using that. I would
be interesting to know how they justify/calculate these seemingly outrageous
charges. Lesson learnt.

Daryl Rowe, Invermay

PETA's new billboard in Horsham asking people to report shearers who use "ice"
or other drugs has certainly occasioned some comment in western Victoria and
throughout the country. So far, five shearers have been sentenced on cruelty to
animals charges. These shearers' appalling treatment of sheep was documented in
a video expos&Atilde;&copy;, which revealed that shearers beat scared sheep in
the face with electric clippers, punched them, and stamped on their heads and
necks.

While Horsham is in the eye of the storm, this billboard is not targeting these
particular cases. Abuse of sheep in shearing sheds is widespread and systemic,
and the investigators found gratuitous cruelty in every one of the 19 Australian
sheds they visited. While drugs are not the only cause of such abuse, they
undoubtedly play a part. Liberal Party delegate and wool producer, Robert
Lawrence said that one shearer on his farm "[broke] 14 legs (of sheep) during
two days' shearing" and called drug use one of the "top three issues facing the
wool industry".

Shearing and drugs do not mix. In order to curtail some of the worst abuses, all
shearers should be tested for drugs before they report to work. PETA urges
anyone who witnesses abuse or negligence involving animals to report it.

Ashley Fruno, Associate Director, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
(PETA) Australia

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Courier

                             April 8, 2017 Saturday
                                 Print Edition

Letters

SECTION: SATURDAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 338 words


No wonder people are falling out of health insurance in droves. My daughter
received a quote of $1371 to have four wisdom teeth extracted, and an additional
$1608 for the anaesthetic. Apparently they bring someone in from out of town.
Don't we have enough in Ballarat? Private extras health insurance rebate is $192
and $200 respectively, leaving a total of nearly $2600 out of pocket. My
daughter has paid private insurance all her working life, with minimal claims.
She would have been better off banking the premium paid and using that. I would
be interesting to know how they justify/calculate these seemingly outrageous
charges. Lesson learnt.

Daryl Rowe, Invermay

PETA's new billboard in Horsham asking people to report shearers who use "ice"
or other drugs has certainly occasioned some comment in western Victoria and
throughout the country. So far, five shearers have been sentenced on cruelty to
animals charges. These shearers' appalling treatment of sheep was documented in
a video expos&Atilde;&copy;, which revealed that shearers beat scared sheep in
the face with electric clippers, punched them, and stamped on their heads and
necks.

While Horsham is in the eye of the storm, this billboard is not targeting these
particular cases. Abuse of sheep in shearing sheds is widespread and systemic,
and the investigators found gratuitous cruelty in every one of the 19 Australian
sheds they visited. While drugs are not the only cause of such abuse, they
undoubtedly play a part. Liberal Party delegate and wool producer, Robert
Lawrence said that one shearer on his farm "[broke] 14 legs (of sheep) during
two days' shearing" and called drug use one of the "top three issues facing the
wool industry".

Shearing and drugs do not mix. In order to curtail some of the worst abuses, all
shearers should be tested for drugs before they report to work. PETA urges
anyone who witnesses abuse or negligence involving animals to report it.

Ashley Fruno, Associate Director, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
(PETA) Australia

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Idaho Falls Post Register

                              May 22, 2017 Monday

Guest column: Labrador wasting taxpayer dollars

BYLINE: Rep. Mat Erpelding, Writer

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: Idaho Falls, ID


If U.S. Representative Raul Labrador were a real fiscal conservative, he
wouldn't live off the state while running for governor, writes state Rep. Mat
Erpelding.

Idahoans share a common set of values including fairness, hard work, ethical
leadership and fiscal responsibility. Those values drive our decisions and help
propel our state forward. All of that is worth considering now that Congressman
Raul Labrador is running to be Idaho's next governor.

As a state legislator, Representative Labrador was not known as a hard worker,
but rather an obstructionist bent on derailing transportation infrastructure
legislation and a host of other bills designed to improve economic fairness for
all Idahoans. As a Congressman, his regressive policies helped put him on
television and kept Idaho in a state of perpetual struggle since he left town
for Washington, D.C.

His views on fairness for all are suspect at best. His comments about health
insurance and his willingness to put more than 660,000 Idahoans at risk because
they have pre-existing conditions is not only unfair, it's inhumane. His
unrelenting attitude toward those who disagree with him has resulted in reckless
and poorly worded responses like "no one ever died because they didn't have
access to health care." Comments like that bring negative national attention to
him, and in turn, Idaho.

Then there's the value of ethical leadership. Whether you agree with his
politics or not, your tax dollars should not subsidize his campaign for
governor. As a member of the U.S. Congress, Labrador makes $174,000 per year.
That's more than three times the median income in Idaho. Yes, we are bankrolling
his run for higher office whether you know it or not.

Therefore, Raul Labrador should resign his seat immediately.

Over the next year and a half, he will continue to draw $477 dollars a day while
he travels the state angling for votes. That's not all. He'll continue to
benefit from the generous Federal Employee Retirement System - a retirement plan
that only gets more lucrative the longer someone is in Congress. Plus, he'll
enjoy world-class health care benefits that a majority of Idahoans don't have
access to. Those life-saving healthcare benefits, by the way, wouldn't go away
if the American Health Care Act becomes law. Labrador voted to exempt himself
from the legislation. In other words, he voted to give you health care that
isn't even good enough for himself or his family. Whether you consider that
unethical or unfair or not, you should not have to foot the bill for his
political future.

Labrador has shown over the years that he cares little about accountability.
It'll only get worse. He will continue to cast votes in Congress that benefit
his election bid instead of doing what's right for his 700,000 constituents.
Furthermore, he'll travel outside his legislative district to campaign instead
of working full-time for the people of the First Congressional District who
elected him.

Labrador claims to advocate for fiscal responsibility, yet, unless he resigns,
he will be wasting your tax dollars while he campaigns for another office. This
doesn't sound fiscally responsible to me. This sounds more like a taxpayer
fleecing that benefits him at your expense. That's why Congressman Labrador
should act responsibly and become "Candidate" Labrador. It's time he resigned
his seat with the U.S. House of Representatives and allow Idahoans to elect
someone who will work for them full-time.

Red states like Georgia and blue states like Hawaii require politicians who run
for higher office to resign their seats in order to campaign. The rationale is
simple. They want lawmakers to concentrate on the offices they hold, not the
ones they aspire to. Congressman Labrador should do the same instead of bilking
taxpayers. There is nothing wrong with being ambitious. But taxpayers shouldn't
have to pay for someone else's aspirations.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 The Post Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                    November 15, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

ETHICS; Who gets the kidney? Exhibit asks public hard questions

BYLINE: JOSEPH VERRENGIA; SCRIPPS HOWARD NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. E5

DATELINE: DENVER, Colo


Inventory at the Human Parts Store is low. Doctors have only one kidney on the
shelf, but six patients need a transplant.

All of the patients would physically match well with the kidney, so none can be
eliminated based on the likelihood of organ rejection.

A few patients don't have health insurance. One is on death's door; others have
been enduring dialysis treatments for years.

Two patients are single parents; one is a child. Financially, they range from a
migrant farm worker to a philanthropist.

One factory owner is offering a $ 50,000 bonus to get the kidney. It sounds
crass, but 200 people will be thrown out of work if he dies, he says.

So who gets the kidney?

It's an ethical nightmare that doctors, patients and families face every day as
the technical ability to perform transplants spreads.

"A real ethical dilemma isn't a choice between good and evil -- that's why it's
not easy to choose," said John Golenski, a Jesuit priest and bioethics
consultant. Golenski is the adviser for "Designer Genes: Sizing Up Bioethics," a
travelling exhibit that will visit 11 U.S. cities.

The exhibit, which is sponsored by Kaiser Permanente, a U.S. health-care system,
contains several displays on many of the messiest and most emotionally charged
medical issues.

Getting a transplant from the Human Parts Store is the centrepiece of the
exhibit.

Other displays include an examination of what should happen to the last bottle
of the AIDS virus after the disease is cured, and the prospects of manipulating
genes so parents could biologically program their children's physical
characteristics and perhaps even their abilities.

The displays are brimming with videos, touch-activated computer screens,
spinning wheels of chance and other hands-on equipment.

Every display has a "yes" and "no" button so visitors can answer the questions
posed by the displays.

The votes are electronically counted so Golenski can track visitors' opinions on
bioethical issues.

So who gets the kidney?

Few Denver visitors have selected the wealthy people. Nor do they choose the
migrant worker or a divorced mother of two who has been on dialysis for six
years.

The immigrant 13-year-old boy finished a close second.

But the winner was a 24-year-old welfare mother who previously donated one of
her kidneys to her ill sister.

"The fact that she had already donated has been a very important value to
voters," Golenski said.



LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1991

LENGTH: 409 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1991 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                           November 25, 2008, Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Around Town

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 473 words


Judges to split hairs over top moustaches

THE city's best moustache will be revealed at a huge party tonight.

As part of a prostate cancer campaign, men from across the Lothians have been
encouraged to grow a moustache throughout the month of November.

Hundreds of people have signed up for the Movember initiative.

A judging panel will be present tonight in The Caves on Niddry Street South to
assess the best and worst examples.

The event starts at 8pm.

Foulkes meets ID protesters

LOTHIANS Labour MSP George Foulkes is to address the next meeting of the
Edinburgh branch of the NO2ID pressure group.

The meeting takes place from 7.45pm tomorrow night at the Quaker Meeting House
on Victoria Terrace.

Christmas fair for the ethical

AN ethical Christmas fair will take place from December 6-14.

The Edinburgh Ethical Christmas Fayre brings together the very best in fair
trade, ethical, sustainable gifts, food and drinks from retailers across the UK
and beyond.

Girlie night aims to pamper up disability charity

DISABILITY charity The Thistle Foundation is offering the chance to pamper
yourself and raise money for its work.

The organisation will hold a Girlie Pamper Evening at Le Monde, George Street,
on Thursday.

There will be the chance to enjoy a Virgin Vie makeover, and bid in a charity
auction for prizes including the services of a professional cocktail barman and
a date with Forth One's Andy Booglas.

Tickets cost GBP 15. Check the website, www.thistle.org.uk, for more details.

Man taken to hospital after crash

A MAN was taken to hospital after a crash in the Capital.

Emergency crews were called to the single-vehicle crash at the roundabout
linking Fishwives' Causeway and Baileyfield Crescent in Portobello at 7.10am
yesterday.

Book signing by city sci-fi writer

AN award-winning science-fiction author is to sign copies of his latest book in
the Capital.

The city-based author Charles Stross will be reading from and signing copies of
Clan Corporate in the Waterstone's West End book shop. The free event is being
held on Thursday, December 11, at 6pm, and tickets are available from the shop.

Fundraising night helps cancer unit to race ahead

A RACE night raised more than GBP 4000 for research into breast cancer at the
Western General.

The event was put on by two workers at the Braid Hills Nursing Home.

Activity co-ordinator Barbara Thomson suffered from the disease last year and
said she wanted to stage the event at Liberton Rugby Club as a thank-you.

The event raised GBP 2450, a sum that was complimented by GBP 2000 from Bupa,
and she paid tribute to colleague Sally Duddy who helped organise it.

Picture caption

CARDINAL Keith O'Brien and Councillor Marilyne MacLaren help Niddrie Mill pupil
Shannon Gray and Humeira Din from St Francis plant a sapling to mark the spot of
the time capsule buried to mark their new Craigmillar campus.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                            November 28, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Flu plans should be ethical: report: Governments not engaging public in
discussion; Centre for Bioethics says infected people in pandemic should be
given basic needs and financial support

BYLINE: MARK KENNEDY, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 378  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Governments preparing for a flu pandemic should develop ethical guidelines for
their plans that include health and disability insurance for health workers and
special assistance for people forced into quarantine, says a new report released
yesterday.

The report, prepared by the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics,
warns governments throughout the world are not doing enough to engage the public
in discussions about the ethical values that should underpin pandemic
preparedness plans.

Last year, the federal government released a plan that spells out how it will
prepare for, and respond to, a flu pandemic that experts say could kill millions
of people worldwide. But the detailed blueprint, although prepared with the
assistance of provinces and public-health authorities, has not had much input
from the Canadian public. That has raised questions about whether the public
would panic in a pandemic and reject government decisions about how to deal with
the crisis.

The report released yesterday by the medical ethics think-tank casts a spotlight
on that shortcoming.

Among the report's recommendations:

- Professional colleges and associations for health workers should provide,
through their codes of ethics, "clear guidance" on the "expectations and
obligations" about their duty to provide care during a pandemic.

- Governments and the health sector should ensure disability insurance and death
benefits are available to health workers and their families adversely affected
while performing their duties.

- Governments should ensure the public is aware of the rationale for restrictive
measures such as quarantine and the "consequences" of non-compliances.

- Governments should offer backup support for people who are quarantined, such
as providing them financial support in lieu of lost income and arranging for
basic needs such as grocery shopping and paying their bills.

- Governments should publicize a clear rationale for why medicines such as
antivirals and vaccine are to be given first to a priority list of people, such
as health-care workers.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics, said Canadians learned
some critical lessons from the SARS crisis of 2003 - notably, fairness is
important during a time of confusion.

Ottawa Citizen

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 24, 2009 Monday

National: Ethical living: The good: The bad: The green list: from bikes to patio
heaters, what's best - and worst - for the planet: Campaigners and politicians
nominate their loves and hates

BYLINE: James Meikle

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 632 words


They may be a simple way to keep you warm on an autumn evening in the back
garden or offer the shortest travel time to a well-earned holiday, but patio
heaters and short-haul flights are among the least ethical goods and services of
the past 20 years, according to a survey of leading politicians and green
campaigners.

A list of perceived environmental evils that also includes the standby on your
television set and the complex international framework for carbon offsetting has
been garnered from those at the forefront of the environmental movement by
Ethical Consumer magazine.

But the "most hated" innovations, which apparently threaten a green future and
therefore should be banned, are balanced by suggestions for the most ethical
products of the last 20 years. The rise of cycling, the Fairtrade movement and
the Eurostar links between London, Brussels and Paris all win plaudits.

The vision of the best and worst emerges as part of the magazine's 20th birthday
celebrations, for which it invited nominations from environment secretary Hilary
Benn, political opponents, climate camp activists and a number of campaign
groups.

For Benn, success in a British campaign to get the bluefin tuna added to the
international list of endangered species would stop the fishing industry wiping
it out, while he, like others of those questioned, endorses the Fairtrade
movement - "a brilliantly simple idea that builds a relationship between the
farmer and the person buying the product".

Greg Barker, his Conservative opposite number, backs the already planned EU ban
on incandescent light bulbs, while hoping that the generation of mercury-based
low-energy bulbs will soon be superseded by LED products, and commends smart
electric meters, which "have the power to revolutionise people's relationship
with the energy they use".

Lib Dem Simon Hughes says that locally grown food will help Britain
significantly reduce food miles, and he says getting rid of the standby facility
on TVs and other electrical appliances could save almost 1m tonnes of carbon
emissions each year.

London mayor Boris Johnson refuses to suggest a product or service that should
be banned, believing "in carrots rather than sticks", and promotes instead his
plans for a cycle hire scheme in the capital and incentives for recycling waste.
But his nomination for best ethical product is the development of electric cars,
adding: "I am completely blown away by the rapid development of the technology
behind them."

The choices from Climate Camp activists make up a single entry in each category
- but there is therefore a triple suggestion for best product, "ideas and time;
something I made myself; the bicycle". And there are two suggestions for bans,
carbon offsets ("Nature doesn't do bailouts") and flights powered by agrofuels,
"a blatant example of greenwash".

Other candidates for a ban range from private health insurance, "a creeping
threat to the integrity of public health systems around the world" according to
John Hilary, of War on Want, and battery-farmed animal products, nominated by
Patrick Holden, director of the Soil Association.

Other hated technologies nominated include patio heaters - "It's just so
pointless heating the open air," said Andy Atkins, of Friends of the Earth - and
coal-fired power stations, for their "devastating role" in climate change,
according to Jason Torrance, of the transport charity Sustrans.

The wind-up torch is the most ethical product, according to Helen Starr-Keddie
of Action for Sustainable Living.

And "real nappies" save families a lot of money and mean less waste going to
landfill, said Caroline Fernandez of the Women's Environmental Network.

Eurostar's nomination comes from Greenpeace's Ben Stewart, for challenging
"Britain's addiction to flying".

Ruth Bond, page 28 >=

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                    February 22, 2002 Friday CITY-D EDITION

Business News in Brief

BYLINE: Compiled from staff reports, the Associated Press,, Bloomberg News,
Reuters, and other wire services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 1295 words


In the Region

Conventions, campaign give a boost to Center City hotels

Center City's hotel occupancy rates are expected to reach 64 percent this year
after falling to 60.7 percent in 2001, according to a forecast by
PricewaterhouseCoopers. This year's higher occupancy rates were expected because
of strong convention bookings, but they got an unanticipated boost from a city
campaign to lure leisure tourists. That campaign, in response to the tourism
drop after Sept. 11, is called "Philly's More Fun When You Sleep Over." As of
Feb. 10, the campaign - which offers two nights for the price of one - drew more
than 16,000 visitors, who added more than $3 million to the local economy,
according to the Greater Philadelphia Tourism Marketing Corp.

Earle Palmer Brown takes on DeLonghi America as client

Earle Palmer Brown's Philadelphia office said it would handle advertising for
DeLonghi America Inc., of Saddle Brook, N.J., the Italian manufacturer of
kitchen equipment and other consumer products. Billings are expected to be about
$6 million to $8 million over the next 12 months. The work will be handled in
New York and Philadelphia.

Two animal-rights groups to extend boycott to Genuardi's

Two animal-rights groups said they were extending a boycott of Safeway Inc. to
the company's Genuardi's division, which is based in Norristown. People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals and the Animal Defense League contend that Safeway
suppliers use cruel and abusive practices on animals raised for slaughter and
sold to Genuardi's and Safeway stores. A Safeway spokesman said that the firm
had seen no evidence that its suppliers abused animals and that if the groups
had such evidence, it should be given to the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
which regulates the suppliers.

Cigna Healthcare forms a new vision-care company

Cigna Healthcare, a Bloomfield, Conn., unit of the Philadelphia insurer, said it
had formed a new company, Cigna Vision Care Inc., to expand vision-care coverage
and services. About 4 million Cigna health-care members now have vision-care
coverage, including 7,200 in Pennsylvania. Cigna spokeswoman Amy Turkington said
the new company's focus would be on attracting new customers by marketing and
improving vision-care plans and by developing new products to meet consumer
demand.

Lawsuit accuses Campbell Soup of defrauding creditors

Campbell Soup Co., Camden, was accused in a lawsuit of defrauding creditors by
transferring loans and other burdensome obligations to its Vlasic Foods
International Inc. unit in a 1998 spin-off. VFB L.L.C., the company created to
oversee the pickle-maker's liquidation, alleges that Campbell transferred to
Vlasic a $500 million loan that it could not repay. VFB is seeking $250 million
to pay creditors that were excluded in Vlasic's recovery plan. Campbell
spokesman Jerry Buckley said the company believed the suit was "without merit."
Vlasic, Cherry Hill, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January 2001.
It was sold last May to the Dallas buyout firm Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Inc.

Elsewhere

Boeing Co. says it plans to cut as many as 1,050 jobs

Boeing Co., the largest maker of commercial satellites, plans to cut as many as
1,050 jobs at its satellite-making business in Southern California because of
falling demand from telecommunications companies. The reductions represent 11
percent of the unit's staff.

N.Y. demands eBay pull items related to Sept. 11 attack

The City of New York demanded that eBay pull all items from its Web site that
are related to the World Trade Center attack, saying the memorabilia represent a
revolting attempt to exploit a tragedy. The online auction company said it was
unlikely to institute such a ban. "Many of these items represent outrageous
attempts to profit from a recent act of mass murder," the city's top lawyer,
Corporation Counsel Michael Cardozo, wrote in a letter to eBay. "The items
themselves in many cases may constitute, or be the result of unlawful activity."
EBay spokesman Henry Gomez said: "There are tens of thousands of eBay users,
many of who are selling items that are appropriate, some who are not. We're
pulling the items that are not."

Aetna Inc. reports its fourth consecutive quarterly loss

Aetna Inc. reported its fourth consecutive quarterly loss as the biggest U.S.
health insurer battled rising medical costs and had expenses for cutting jobs.
Aetna's fourth-quarter loss from continuing operations narrowed to $199 million,
or $1.38 a share, from $372 million, or $2.63 a share, a year earlier when the
company had restructuring expenses, Aetna said in a statement. Revenue fell 8.4
percent to $6.04 billion from $6.6 billion as Aetna had fewer customers. Aetna,
the parent of Aetna U.S. Healthcare Inc., Blue Bell, Pa., had losses from
operations in all four quarters last year after failing to raise premiums to
keep up with medical costs. The insurer also cut 6,000 jobs, 16 percent of
Aetna's workforce, in December.

Arthur Andersen said to be offering settlement in suit

Arthur Andersen L.L.P. is said to be offering hundreds of millions of dollars to
settle with Enron shareholders, creditors and employees and prevent the debacle
from putting the accounting firm out of business. USA Today reported Wednesday
that Andersen, Enron's accountants, has floated early settlement figures of $260
million to resolve fraud claims in a class-action lawsuit brought by Enron
shareholders. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that Andersen was
offering between $700 million and $800 million in a possible settlement with
shareholders, creditors and employees of Enron. The newspapers said Andersen's
attempt to negotiate a settlement began more than a week ago.

As it prepares to sell to Comcast, AT&T adds to its board

AT&T Corp. said it named president David Dorman and chief financial officer
Chuck Noski to its board of directors as the long-distance telephone and
cable-television company prepares to sell its cable unit to Comcast Corp.,
Philadelphia. The appointment of Dorman and Noski expands AT&T's board to 13
directors. Five directors, including AT&T chairman C. Michael Armstrong, will
shift to the combined AT&T Comcast board when that merger closes. Noski will
have additional responsibility working with Armstrong on AT&T's restructuring,
which includes issuing shares to track the consumer phone-business and selling
the cable operation to Comcast.

To end slump, Time changes editors at People magazine

Time Inc. is changing editors at People magazine, the nation's most profitable
magazine, in an attempt to stop one of the worst slumps in advertising spending.
People's managing (and founding) editor, Carol Wallace, will resign after five
years at the top. She will be succeeded by Martha Nelson, founder of People
spin-off In Style magazine, starting April 1, the publishing unit of AOL Time
Warner Inc. announced. The company said Wallace, a former Philadelphia Daily
News reporter, will become an editor-at-large, reporting directly to Time editor
in chief Norman Pearlstine. Shares of AOL Time Warner closed yesterday at $23,
down $1.20.

SEC files securities fraud charges against a stockbroker

The Securities and Exchange Commission filed securities fraud charges against a
stockbroker, accusing him of stealing at least $40 million from clients. Frank
Gruttadauria, 44, was charged in an SEC complaint with stealing the money from
more than 50 clients. Two Gruttadauria-controlled entities, DH Strategic
Partners Inc. and JYM Trading Trust, also were charged with securities fraud for
allegedly misappropriating investor funds. His attorney could not be reached for
comment.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                October 2, 1999

Chua: Healthcare bodies breaching ethics

SECTION: National; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: Kuala Lumpur


KUALA LUMPUR, Fri. - Some managed healthcare organisations, particularly
those operating as third party administrators and companies marketing
health plans, are breaching ethical medical practices.

Health Minister Datuk Chua Jui Meng said these managed care
organisations (MCOs) were, among others, divulging information without
patients' consent and not providing the best level of care required of
them.

"The Ministry has noted that some MCOs have yet to satisfy and adhere to
guidelines issued.

"Sheer excuses or ignorance on the part of the managers as to what
constitutes ethical medical practices is not accepted," he said at the
seventh annual National Healthcare Conference and Exhibition organised by
the Association of Private Hospitals of Malaysia.

The theme for the two-day conference which started yesterday is
Containing Healthcare Costs - Is Managed Care the Solution?

"There are codes of ethics for doctors, or other health professionals
such as dentists and even nurses for patients' benefit. The MCOs must not
cause these healthcare providers to breach their code of ethics," Chua
said.

MCOs are now operating as third party administrators, insurance
companies, emergency medical assistance companies, panel doctors system
and the increasingly popular multi-level or direct-selling companies
marketing health plans.

The MCOs come under the ambit of the Private Healthcare Facilities and
Services Act which was passed by Parliament last year.

"The Act provides clear guidelines (for MCOs). If they deal with
healthcare, they must adhere to this law," Chua said later.

It serves as an interim measure before a more comprehensive set of
regulations to govern MCOs is enforced. These regulations are currently
being drafted by the Ministry.

Chua said the Act drew a line between the practice of medicine by
doctors and the practice of managed care by MCOs.

It does not permit any private healthcare facility or service provider
to enter into any contract or arrangement with any MCO which will result
in:

a change in the powers of the doctors/dentists over the management of
their patients; and,

the contravention of any provision of the new law or its regulations
and of the code of ethics of any professional regulatory body.

The doctors and MCOs must report any arrangement or contract that they
make to the Director-General of Health.

Chua said the Ministry did not know the extent of the problem as the
legislation has yet to be gazetted.

"Once gazetted, we will be able to know the extent of the MCOs' practice
and malpractices," he said.

In the meantime, they must comply with the existing law. Once the
regulations were enforced, it would be difficult for them to comply
because they could already have entered into a contract which contravened
the law.

Chua warned of heavy penalties for MCOs which forced health institutes
or doctors to enter into a contract that breached the Act.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 1999 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              169 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            August 1, 2012 Wednesday
                              WED REGIONAL Edition

Judge lifts birth-control order

BYLINE: Colleen O'Connor

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 713 words


A Denver manufacturing company owned by a devout Catholic family got a temporary
reprieve from provisions of the Affordable Health Care Act they argued infringed
on their religious liberties -- just as the mandate is set to take effect.

Starting Wednesday, any employer-sponsored health care plan renewed after this
date must offer free access to eight services classified as preventive care for
women, including Food and Drug Administration-approved contraception and
sterilization procedures. Some companies did not offer these services under
their health care plans, while others had to pay a deductible or co-pay.

U.S. District Court Judge John Kane wrote in his order for preliminary
injunction that Hercules Industries, which makes heating and air conditioning
equipment, has "adequately established that they will suffer imminent
irreparable harm."

Members of the Newland family, which owns Hercules, said in their complaint that
they are practicing Catholics who seek to run their company in a way that
reflects their religious beliefs as formed by the moral teachings of the
Catholic Church.

They argued that it would be sinful and immoral for them to provide
abortifacient drugs, contraception or sterilization through the health insurance
coverage they offer.

At least 22 other similar federal lawsuits are pending across the nation.

Some legal experts say the preliminary injunction will influence the other
cases. Others disagree.

"The principle decided here is applicable to all of the cases raising the issue
of can the government justify forcing people to choose between their faith, and
engaging in business or serving the community," said Matt Bowman, legal counsel
for the Alliance Defending Freedom, a coalition of Christian lawyers.

But this is just the first of many steps, said Jennifer Hendricks, professor of
law at the University of Colorado at Boulder.

"All it does is set pervasive precedent," she said. "It's not binding because
it's a district court."

The ruling will most likely be appealed to the 10th District Court of Appeals,
she said. Appellate and Supreme Court decisions will have the binding precedent.

Planned Parenthood of the Rocky Mountains expressed deep disappointment with the
court decision.

"In 2012, it's ridiculous to be having to have this fight over birth control,"
spokeswoman Monica McCafferty said. "No one is forcing anyone to take birth
control. We're talking about health insurance and the benefits available."

According to a recent Hart Research Poll, 56 percent of voters believe that this
is an issue of women's health care and access to birth control, and 36 percent
believe it is a matter of an employer's religious liberty.

The U.S. government argued that the Hercules lawsuit should be dismissed because
it would be against the public interest.

It would "undermine (their) ability to effectuate Congress' goals of improving
the health of women and children" and to equalize that coverage of preventive
services for women and men "so that women who choose to do so can be part of the
workforce on an equal playing field with men," according to court documents.

Kane disagreed, writing that such interests "are countered, and indeed
outweighed, by the public interest in the free exercise of religion."

In their complaint, the Newland family cited donations of hundreds of thousands
of dollars to Catholic parishes, schools, evangelical efforts and charitable
causes, averaging nearly $60,000 a year since 2008.

Since 2010, the Newlands have used a program at their business created by the
Spitzer Center for Ethical Leadership, training their management staff to
implement principles based on their religious ethical beliefs.

Beth Starbuck, features editor at VeracityStew.com who has written on women's
rights, said it is disturbing that women's employers might be able to inject
themselves into health care decisions.

"What if an employer said they didn't agree with drugs of any kind based on
their religious convictions," she said in an e-mail interview. "Should they be
allowed to deny their employees lifesaving medications? I think this would be a
door that would be very difficult to close."

Staff writer Kevin C. Keller contributed to this report.

Colleen O'Connor: 303-954-1083, coconnor@denverpost.com or
twitter.com/coconnordp

LOAD-DATE: August 04, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Health bodies review ethical and legal perspectives of healthcare

BYLINE: Sumitra Deb Roy

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 422 words


MUMBAI:The National Steering Committee to review ethical and legal perspectives
of healthcare in India recently held its first meeting in Bangalore. The
committee, consisting of all major medical and hospital associations, reiterated
that as health professionals all effort should be made to ensure provision of
quality, ethical, easily accessible and affordable health care to all.

Led by the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) and the Indian
Medical Association (IMA), the committee said that healthcare professionals
should ensure patients get standardized care. The members also discussed how
communicating with patients and their kin was one area that needed major
improvement. The members discussed how accepting and offering commissions was an
outright unethical practice and indirectly responsible for the increased cost of
healthcare.

The body has representation from the Association of National Board Accredited
Institutions (ANBAI), Academy of Hospital Administration (AHA), Association of
Physicians India (API), Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Federation of
Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI), Indian Academy of
Pediatrics (IAP), Indian Orthopedic Association (IOA), Indian Radiological and
Imaging Association (IRIA), among other bodies.

In the meeting, an increase in litigations against doctors was extensively
discussed. Members noted that these verdicts have led to a significant increase
in the premiums paid to insurance companies. They also felt it was responsible
for doctors shying away from treating complicated cases.

One solution discussed by the committee was that it may be desirable to place a
cap on the amount that can be awarded in cases of medical negligence, as
practiced in countries such as the US. "Capping could be a reasonable and
balanced solution. Current compensations awarded for negligence is
unsustainable," said Dr Marthandam Pillai, president, IMA.

Renowned cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty said that 80% of hospital births in
India are in hospitals or nursing homes which have 30 or less beds. "These
smaller health care facilities in rural and semi-urban areas may have to shut
operations if subjected to frivolous and exorbitant lawsuits," he said. Dr
Alexander Thomas, executive director of AHPI mentioned that over the last few
months, IMA and AHPI have set up a working group to tackle the issue. Other
suggestions were to set up arbitration centers in hospitals, appointing an
Ombudsman in each state, etc.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 3, 2017 Wednesday

Workshop on "Analysis of ethical principles in clinical decision-making and
research with human beings"

LENGTH: 256  words

DATELINE: New York



Paris: UNESCO has issued the following news release:

Workshop on "Analysis of ethical principles in clinical decision-making and
research with human beings"
 nice_worldbank_lipszyc.jpg
 When, local time:


 Wednesday, 3 May 2017 -
 8:00am to 1:00pm
 Where:
 Costa Rica, San José
 Type of Event:
 Category 7-Seminar and Workshop
 Contact:
 Diana Cardenas, d.cardenas@unesco.org
This meeting between UNESCO and the bioethics committees of the Caja
Costarricense de Seguro Social (Costa Rican Social Security, CCSS) aims to
generate space for discussion around ethical principles considered in the
decision-making or recommendations in clinical bioethics and bioethics in
research that are applied in the proposed methodology by the department of
bioethics of the CCSS.
The bioethics committees are spaces of communication open to ethical reflection,
that help to induce individual and collective ethical responsibility, rather
than imposing abstract norms. Clinical bioethics committees appear as
intermediate sites between national or institutional committees and individual
deliberation. Their essential function is to improve the quality of patient care
through the identification, analysis and resolution of problems related to its
care. In practice, this function is expressed through three activities: support
for decisions, establishment of procedures and training of staff. These actions
are based on ethical principles such as beneficence, autonomy and vulnerability,
principles of UNESCO's Universal Declaration of Bioethics and Human Rights.





LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 27, 2017 Thursday

Workshop on "Analysis of ethical principles in clinical decision-making and
research with human beings"

LENGTH: 256  words

DATELINE: New York



Paris: UNESCO has issued the following news release:

Workshop on "Analysis of ethical principles in clinical decision-making and
research with human beings"
 nice_worldbank_lipszyc.jpg
 When, local time:


 Wednesday, 3 May 2017 -
 8:00am to 1:00pm
 Where:
 Costa Rica, San José
 Type of Event:
 Category 7-Seminar and Workshop
 Contact:
 Diana Cardenas, d.cardenas@unesco.org
This meeting between UNESCO and the bioethics committees of the Caja
Costarricense de Seguro Social (Costa Rican Social Security, CCSS) aims to
generate space for discussion around ethical principles considered in the
decision-making or recommendations in clinical bioethics and bioethics in
research that are applied in the proposed methodology by the department of
bioethics of the CCSS.
The bioethics committees are spaces of communication open to ethical reflection,
that help to induce individual and collective ethical responsibility, rather
than imposing abstract norms. Clinical bioethics committees appear as
intermediate sites between national or institutional committees and individual
deliberation. Their essential function is to improve the quality of patient care
through the identification, analysis and resolution of problems related to its
care. In practice, this function is expressed through three activities: support
for decisions, establishment of procedures and training of staff. These actions
are based on ethical principles such as beneficence, autonomy and vulnerability,
principles of UNESCO's Universal Declaration of Bioethics and Human Rights.





LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 26, 2017 Wednesday

Workshop on "Analysis of ethical principles in clinical decision-making and
research with human beings"

LENGTH: 256  words

DATELINE: New York



Paris: UNESCO has issued the following news release:

Workshop on "Analysis of ethical principles in clinical decision-making and
research with human beings"
 nice_worldbank_lipszyc.jpg
 When, local time:


 Wednesday, 3 May 2017 -
 8:00am to 1:00pm
 Where:
 Costa Rica, San José
 Type of Event:
 Category 7-Seminar and Workshop
 Contact:
 Diana Cardenas, d.cardenas@unesco.org
This meeting between UNESCO and the bioethics committees of the Caja
Costarricense de Seguro Social (Costa Rican Social Security, CCSS) aims to
generate space for discussion around ethical principles considered in the
decision-making or recommendations in clinical bioethics and bioethics in
research that are applied in the proposed methodology by the department of
bioethics of the CCSS.
The bioethics committees are spaces of communication open to ethical reflection,
that help to induce individual and collective ethical responsibility, rather
than imposing abstract norms. Clinical bioethics committees appear as
intermediate sites between national or institutional committees and individual
deliberation. Their essential function is to improve the quality of patient care
through the identification, analysis and resolution of problems related to its
care. In practice, this function is expressed through three activities: support
for decisions, establishment of procedures and training of staff. These actions
are based on ethical principles such as beneficence, autonomy and vulnerability,
principles of UNESCO's Universal Declaration of Bioethics and Human Rights.



LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               November 23, 2009

AMA meeting: Are doctors responsible for controlling health care costs?

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, amednews staff. Posted Nov. 23, 2009.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 24 Vol. 52 No. 48

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: Houston



HIGHLIGHT: A CEJA open forum explored the role of physicians in an age of
ever-rising medical spending.


 In the debate over health insurance reform, proposals to control rising costs
have focused on systemic changes such as redesigning the payment system,
prioritizing primary care and comparing the effectiveness of medical
interventions.

But what obligation does the individual physician have to appropriately use
scarce medical dollars? And how can that responsibility be squared with doctors'
duty to advocate for the welfare of their patients?

These were some of the questions delegates explored at the Council on Ethical
and Judicial Affairs open forum held at the AMA's Interim Meeting in November.

Health care costs account for 16% of U.S. gross domestic product. That level of
spending "represents an enormous burden for individuals, employers and other
payers at the state and federal levels," said CEJA member Susan D. Goold, MD, an
Ann Arbor, Mich., internist. She said it is critical for doctors to examine what
part they play in rising costs.

"The physician's pen is the most expensive medical device out there," Dr. Goold
said. "Our orders pretty much control what happens to patients. We have a big
role in what happens to health care spending."

Some delegates said the fear of medical liability lawsuits drives doctors to
order costly interventions.

"Until we end up with a solution to the malpractice problem so that patients can
be adequately compensated when they are injured without throwing all kinds of
blame or harassment on physicians, we're going to have overutilization," said
John A. Seibel, MD, an Albuquerque, N.M., endocrinologist and a delegate for the
American Assn. of Clinical Endocrinologists.

Shifting responsibilities

Others challenged the notion that rising medical spending is a baleful trend.

"Increased spending on health care is good for this country," said Leon
Reinstein, MD, a Baltimore physical medicine and rehabilitation specialist and a
delegate for American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.
"Two-thirds of health care spending goes into wages. These people don't put
their money into mattresses. They buy houses, they buy cars, they spend money.
You can't say the sky is falling just because we're spending more money on
health care; the question is how to spend that money wisely."

Others said they want ethical guidance on how to balance obligations to
individual patients and to society.

"I'm troubled by the ethical policy that says the responsibility is only to the
patient in front of you," said Neil H. Brooks, MD, a Vernon Rockville, Conn.,
family physician and a delegate for the American Academy of Family Physicians.
"Every moment I am with a patient, I'm also responsible to other patients. When
I'm with the family with a mom who has cancer and they want one more CT scan, I
somehow have to be involved in these decisions about the use of resources. I
don't think it's ethical for me not to."

Delegates also discussed "never events" -- serious preventable adverse outcomes
such as wrong-site surgery. Medicare recently stopped paying for some of these
mistakes, joining a growing number of health plans. Many hospitals also have
stopped billing for these errors, and 27 states require organizations to report
when never events happen.

But many delegates asked CEJA to distinguish in its deliberations on ethics
policy between true never events and complications, such as urinary tract
infections, that are not always preventable despite the best efforts to adhere
to evidence-based guidelines.

CEJA could present ethical opinions on these topics for delegates' consideration
within the next 12 to 18 months.

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: Industry funding of continuing medical education and CME faculty with
financial conflicts may inappropriately influence educational content.

Proposed action: Develop ethical guidance advising that commercial support
should be avoided when possible. Lay out principles for how to minimize
financial conflicts and reduce the potential for bias. [Referred]

Issue: Kidney transplant chains have become more prevalent in recent years,
raising questions about their propriety.

Proposed action: Examine the scientific feasibility and ethical implications of
these new practices. [Adopted]

Issue: Some medical students and doctors post unprofessional content online.

Proposed action: Write ethical standards for physician professionalism online
and incorporate them into the modernized AMA Code of Medical Ethics. [Adopted]

Issue: Illegal immigrants sometimes are discharged from American hospitals and
repatriated to their home countries, where they get little or no medical care.

Proposed action: Develop ethical guidance advising doctors to refuse to sign
discharge orders that would repatriate such patients involuntarily. [Referred]

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 5, 2010 Friday

Everyday ethics: End-of-life duty

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

SECTION: NEWS; National; World; Features

LENGTH: 605 words


At 65 years old, I am facing a final diagnosis for lung cancer and the prospect
of a 15 percent survival rate. If this is confirmed, would it be ethical to put
myself through painful long-term treatment and to have the people who love me
endure this? At my age, is it ethical to consume the health care dollars
involved? What is the tipping point to elect aggressive care? Thirty percent?
Sixty percent?

G.M., Jackson Heights, Queens

You have no ethical duty to refuse treatment solely on the basis of its cost or
your age. Nor is there a universally accepted signpost indicating when a
patient's chance of survival is high enough to seek aggressive care. As you
indicate, many factors must be weighed: the costs to the community, the
emotional toll on those you love, your own suffering, the quality of life you
can expect after treatment. All should be discussed with your physician and your
family.

Even under similar circumstances, different people will reach different -- and
honorable -- conclusions. Terrie Fox Wetle, associate dean of medicine for
public health and public policy at Brown University and an expert in end-of-life
care, told me in an e-mail: "This decision also involves the individual's
personal values and preferences. For some, quality of life is more important
than quantity of days that may be gained by aggressive treatment."

Current health policy devotes enormous resources to end-of-life care rather
than, say, wellness throughout life. Some studies suggest that 25 percent of
Medicare money is spent on people in the last year of life, 40 percent of that
on their last month. But it would be asking a lot of anyone to please die more
quickly so that we can trim our health care budget. Most of us will live and die
much like our neighbors, according to the norms of our society. And so it is
incumbent on us all to think about how public policy shapes those norms.

Whatever you decide, Wetle adds, "clearly articulated advanced care planning,
including living wills and designation of health care proxies, reduce the risk
of inappropriate or unwanted interventions." These are matters to discuss with
your lawyer as well as your doctor.

Update » Exploratory surgery determined that G.M. does not have lung cancer. He
recently returned to work. His doctors continue to monitor him.



A friend and I took on a renovation project, but various problems led us to sell
the property before we finished. I calculated his share of the sale at $11,000;
he thought he was due more. Mediation failed to resolve our dispute, and my
friend sued, seeking $94,000. The case was ultimately dismissed. I still feel I
owe him $11,000, but he cost me more than $9,000 in legal expenses. May I
subtract that from the debt?

B.S., Boston

I admire your determination to pay your friend what you believe you owe him even
though the law does not require it. And I agree that you may reasonably deduct
your legal fees from that debt. It is he who imposed them on you by filing suit.
So sure, send him $11,000 less that $9,000 -- that is, $2,000 -- along with a
courteous note explaining how you arrived at that figure, the epistolary and
financial equivalent of extending the hand of friendship. But be wary: Such
hands have been bitten off before. And your (former?) friend does believe you
owe him a lot more money and some flamboyant groveling.

I write this with some trepidation, having only your version of events. Your
friend's account -- and his accounting -- no doubt differ.

Update » Subsequent developments raised B.S.'s legal bills to $14,000,
effectively wiping out the debt, he believes.

  Alt Heads:

Duty and a final

diagnosis

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

NATIONAL STEERING COMMITTEE REVIEWS ETHICAL AND LEGAL PERSPECTIVES OF HEALTHCARE
IN INDIA

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: India


India, July 14 -- The inaugural meeting of the National Steering Committee to
Review Ethical and Legal perspectives of Healthcare in India was held recently
in Bangalore. The committee, consisting of all major medical and hospital
societies in the Country - led by the Association of Healthcare Providers India
(AHPI) and the Indian Medical Association (IMA), discussed the present scenario
among the medical fraternity, and has representation from the Association of
National Board Accredited Institutions (ANBAI), Christian Coalition for Health
India (CCHI), Consortium of Accredited Healthcare Organizations (CAHO), Academy
of Hospital Administration (AHA), All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS),
Association of Otolaryngologists of India (AOI), Association of Physicians India
(API), Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Medical Officers Association of
ESIC, Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI),
Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), Indian Orthopedic Association (IOA), Indian
Society of Anesthesiologists (ISA), and Indian Radiological and Imaging
Association (IRIA). All these major societies will liaise with their
subspecialty associations so that the entire medical community will be involved
in this important exercise

It was reiterated that the patient is the focus, and as health professionals all
effort should be made to ensure provision of quality, ethical, easily accessible
and affordable care to all. This would include standardization of care with
minimum levels as appropriate.

Communication to and with patients, and their relative and attendees was one
area, which needed improvement. Unethical practices, like taking and giving of
commissions etc. are not acceptable, and also are cause for increased cost of
healthcare.

Recent awards of huge amounts as compensation for medical negligence have been
making the news. Members noted that these verdicts have resulted in a huge
increase in the number of cases filed against doctors, as well as a significant
increase in the premiums paid to insurance companies. Unfortunately, this
results in more expensive medical care, which is borne by the patient as is
evident from the experience in US and other developed countries. In addition,
hospitals and doctors are now reluctant to take on complicated cases for fear of
medico-legal issues, and many have stopped practice. In India, this only adds to
the already severe shortage of specialists. Again, it is the patient who
suffers, deprived of adequate medical care of an acceptable standard. Another
recognized factor for increased cost in these situations is practice of
defensive medicine, an example of which is getting excessive investigations done
by the clinician for fear of being questioned in the court of law.

Dr. Devi Shetty-a well known name in the healthcare sector, said that 80% of
hospital births in India are in hospitals or nursing homes which have 30 or less
beds.Thesesmallerhealth care facilities in rural and semi-urban areas which
provide care to the majority of patients in our country may have to shut
operations if subjected to frivolous and exorbitant lawsuits.

Dr. Alexander Thomas Executive Director of AHPI mentioned that over the last few
months, IMA and AHPI have set up a working group to tackle the issue. Much work
has already gone into this endeavor by eminent lawyers and medical personnel.

Professor and Advocate Dr.JogaRao andMr. DhyanChinnappa, Senior Advocate also
spoke on the occasion.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Web Newswire. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Death Row Donation of Organs?

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 901 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Giving Life After Death Row,'' by Christian Longo, a prisoner at Oregon
State Penitentiary (Op-Ed, March 6):

The most important argument against carrying out Mr. Longo's altruistic wish to
donate his organs for transplantation after he is executed is an ethical one.
This would come too close to violating what ethicists call the dead-donor rule,
which states that a person must never be killed for the purpose of removing
organs for transplant.

Although his execution would be punishment for a quadruple homicide, its linkage
to organ removal would be too close to pass ethical muster. It would be
reminiscent of an egregious violation of human rights, as when the Chinese
executed scores of prisoners and harvested their organs to fuel a lucrative
trade in organ transplants.

Moreover, the exploitation of prisoners for the ostensibly laudable reason of
furthering medical knowledge should give us further pause before trying to wring
benefit from an act of execution.

Organ donation from dead patients will always be a sensitive moral enterprise.
We must not risk ethically sullying this practice by harvesting organs from
executed prisoners.

Kenneth Prager New York, March 7, 2011

The writer is a professor of clinical medicine at Columbia College of Physicians
and Surgeons and clinical ethics chairman of the Medical Ethics Committee at
NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center.

To the Editor:

''Giving Life After Death Row'' wanders near several slippery slopes. One is, of
course, the frightening example of the Chinese, whose comfort with this practice
raises concerns about potential effects on sentencing of possible ''societal
good'' resulting from execution. Another is the troubling aberration of the
Mississippi example of the trading of life sentences for a kidney.

To inject the jarring perspective of medicine and science into this rather
perverse discussion: transplanted organs function best when procured from brain
dead (heart still beating) donors. Rational consideration of this dubious
proposal would require a completely new approach to execution.

John Baldwin Phoenix, March 6, 2011

The writer is a transplant surgeon and former national board member of the
United Network for Organ Sharing.

To the Editor:

I deeply admire Christian Longo's desire to make a positive out of a negative by
donating his organs after his execution. Still, in the long and rather sad list
of reasons he cites as to why most prisons disallow their death row inmates from
making such a donation, Mr. Longo leaves out what is perhaps the most compelling
ethical concern: that death row inmates, and the imposing of the death sentence
upon them, could become an easy means to harvesting human organs.

This sounds like something out of a Stephen King novel, I grant, but I do think
the fear is real. In cases where the judgment is poised precariously between
life imprisonment and execution, the possibility that lives might eventually be
saved could just tilt the balance in execution's favor.

Mr. Longo committed a terrible crime, as have many others on death row. But it's
long past time that the United States end the barbarity of capital punishment in
its penal system. We need to strengthen the case against it, not add new excuses
to support it.

John Andert Bronx, March 6, 2011

To the Editor:

The Op-Ed article by Christian Longo cogently addresses several issues that are
never publicly discussed.

There is a large nationwide mismatch between ill patients waiting for organ
donation and suitable organ donors. Regardless of your position on the issue of
capital punishment, these executions do occur and viable organs are wasted.

The family of Mr. Longo is dead by his hand. That will not change. He accepts
responsibility and admits his guilt. Whether it is for altruism or to assuage
his conscience, he wants to donate his organs to strangers on organ transplant
waiting lists.

Facilitating organ donations from willing death row prisoners clearly serves the
public good. This proposal would facilitate better screening for infection in
donors and better organ matching, and improve the quality of life and length of
life of the recipients. More recipients die waiting for organs than currently
receive organs in our country.

Marrick Kukin New York, March 6, 2011

The writer is a professor of clinical medicine at Columbia University College of
Physicians and Surgeons and director of the Heart Failure Program at St.
Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital.

To the Editor:

''How Not to Assign Kidneys,'' by Lainie Friedman Ross and Benjamin E. Hippen
(Op-Ed, March 6), doesn't mention today's largest obstacle to live donors:
health insurance. If a live donor loses health insurance, as I have, there's no
recourse for us.

I gave my husband a kidney in 2000, in the vain hope of keeping him alive until
a match could be found (long story short). He never got the second kidney and
died in 2002. I lost my corporate job in 2007 and have been unable to afford
health insurance since then.

I don't regret the extra months of life I gave my dear husband; it was my
pleasure to do so. But when I see articles about the lifesaving procedure today,
I wonder why anyone would do it. Medicare covers the recipients, but the donors
are left to the tender mercies of the health insurance industry, which considers
us pariahs because we have a pre-existing condition.

Marci McKim Bayonne, N.J., March 6, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TED McGRATH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits; Investors have to ask: 'Does it make sense?

BYLINE: Eric Lam, Finanical Post

SECTION: CALGARY BUSINESS; Pg. C8

LENGTH: 462  words


This Saturday, as thousands switch off their lights for Earth Hour, investors
might find their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations to
evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3-million and an expense ratio
of 0.50%. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and
Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the list but
rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19% compared with the TSX 60's 9.74%. So far in 2011 though, the ETF is
slightly ahead posting a 6.92% gain compared with 5.45% for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," Mr. Mc-Mahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

erlam@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday

HPV vaccine benefits outweigh the concerns

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 815 words


Anita L. Allen

is a professor of law and philosophy at the University

of Pennsylvania

Something new is happening every day in the world of public health. It's hard to
know when you ought to hop on the latest medical bandwagon to help your family
and your community. Here is one worth the ride: the cervical cancer vaccine.

New immunization programs always raise legitimate ethical concerns, and the
recently proposed cervical cancer vaccine programs are no different. But the
particular ethical concerns raised by the HPV vaccine should not stand in the
way of public acceptance. The potential health benefits of the vaccine are
enormous.

America's most common sexually transmitted virus is HPV - the human
papillomavirus. Every year, more than six million Americans are infected with
HPV. Merck Pharmaceuticals, based in New Jersey, has developed a vaccine that
researchers say can greatly reduce a woman's chances of getting a potentially
deadly form of cancer. Virtually risk-free, the vaccine also protects against
vaginal warts.

Merck's Gardasil vaccine was shown to be nearly 100 percent effective in four
clinical trials involving 21,000 women. Gardasil worked not only against the two
types of HPV that cause 70 percent of cervical cancers, but also against the
other two, which cause 90 percent of cases of vaginal warts. Merck plans further
research on Gardasil, including research on administering the vaccine to men.
Glaxo Wellcome UK Ltd. is also working on an HPV vaccine for the marketplace.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the Gardasil HPV vaccine in June
for females between the ages of 9 and 26. The Advisory Committee on Immunization
Practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention subsequently
recommended the HPV vaccine for all girls between 11 and 12 years of age, and as
young as 9, with catch-up immunization of 13- to 26-year-olds. The vaccine is
expensive, but the committee also recommended that the federal Vaccines for
Children program pay for the HPV vaccine for children whose families lack
adequate health insurance.

Critics have voiced the ethical concern that, unlike the vaccines for measles
and chicken pox, the HPV vaccine could make things worse rather than better.
They worry that a vaccine that protects against a sexually transmitted virus
will lead some women to let their guard down when it comes to safe sex and
annual gynecological exams. This legitimate ethical concern can be readily
addressed by patient education.

Other concerns are stickier.

Conservative moralists fear that any vaccine that protects against sexually
transmitted infections will encourage promiscuity. The fear may be purely
speculative - but it is heightened by the knowledge that parents could soon be
asked to authorize the vaccine for their middle-school daughters. Whatever your
sexual morality, however, there is good reason to support making this new
vaccine routine.

An estimated 10,000 women will contract cervical cancer each year. Nearly 4,000
will die from it. That's surprising, given the availability of the familiar "Pap
test" for detecting cervical malignancy in its earliest stages. Detected early
through gynecological screening, cervical cancers can be stopped in their tracks
and fully cured. But not all women get the Pap test or get it as often as they
should. Some who get the test don't follow up with their doctors when they get
abnormal test results. African American women receive more Pap tests than any
other group, but die in significantly higher numbers.

It's time for a fresh approach. It's time to give a vaccine a try. All the
evidence suggests that the vaccine works and that it may cut the death rate.

Cervical cancer is a known killer, and before it kills, it can cause bleeding,
incontinence, kidney failure and tremendous pain. According to data provided by
the New Jersey State Cancer Registry, as many women in Newark and other major
municipalities get cervical cancer as get leukemia, brain or thyroid cancer. Yet
cervical cancer has kept a dangerously low profile in some communities,
tragically and unfairly reduced to the lowly status of embarrassing "female
troubles."

If young women get three doses of the recently licensed HPV vaccine, they have a
dramatically reduced chance of contracting cervical cancer. The ideal time to
administer the vaccine is before a girl becomes sexually active, though the
vaccine could also benefit a girl already active.

International clinical trials established that the vaccine is not dangerous in
the approved dosage and delivery. (To be sure, the very, very rare individual
could have an unexpected allergic reaction, just as she could to other
medications.) Because the HPV vaccine can clearly benefit women and their
eventual sex partners, the idea of introducing it into routine pediatric primary
care makes a whole lot of sense.

Contact Anita L. Allen at aallen@law.upenn.edu.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           January 22, 2009 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

INVESTIGATE: DOC BROKER NEEDS A FIX;
BEWARE!

BYLINE: PENMAN & SOMMERLAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 220 words


THIS could have horrendous consequences. Let's say your family doctor commits a
dreadful blunder leaving you needing medical care for the rest of your life.

The doctor's medical insurers would be the obvious people to pay for this care.

Which could be a problem if the doc was insured through Synergys Ethical
Limited.

The word "ethical" would be funny if it wasn't so sick, because this broking
firm took premiums from doctors but didn't pass them on to the insurance
companies.

So doctors, through no fault of their own, were uninsured.

Last year City watchdog the Financial Services Authority banned Synergys Ethical
from "regulated activities" such as selling insurance.

Now the FSA has warned about a medical insurance company trading as Aquote,
saying it too is not passing premiums on to the insurance providers.

"It appears to be trading nationally, selling a range of locum insurance
policies to GP surgeries.

"We believe Aquote is being run by the former director of Synergys Ethical."

The FSA does not name that director but we will.

Step forward 45-year-old Mark Hazelwood of Whitwell, Herts.

We paid him a visit but all he'd say was: "No comment."

Aquote uses two web addresses - a quote. biz and myaquote.com - and is not
connected to "A Quote", which is part of Hero Insurance Services Ltd, a firm
regulated by the FSA.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TIGHT-LIPPED Hazelwood

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    January 25, 2004 Sunday Ontario Edition

Marrying for benefits no worse than for money

SECTION: HAVE-YOUR-SAY; Pg. F07

LENGTH: 630 words


QI am a single bisexual woman who works for a university with excellent spousal
benefits. My gay male roommate has no health insurance. We have discussed
getting married so he can receive benefits through me.

I like the idea of subverting marriage, an institution that generally won't
sanction the same-sex relationships my roommate and I have had. But is this
tantamount to stealing from my employer? Is it ethical to marry for strictly
economic reasons?

APeople have married for many reasons - to gain a fortune, accumulate land,
forge an international alliance, secure a dynasty, raise children - and even on
account of affection, a marital motive that became widespread rather late in
human history with the rise of bourgeois society. (See Jane Austen or later,
19th-century novelists.)

Marrying to obtain health insurance does not seem, historically at least, the
most ignoble reason, particularly where same-sex folks are forbidden to marry
for love. Recently, at least in Western Europe, more and more people have found
none of these aims sufficient and have chosen to forgo marriage (but not family
life) altogether.

In the United States, more than 40 million people lack health insurance and thus
reliable access to medical care. The solution to this problem is political
reform, and so I hope you are working for that (if only by supporting candidates
for public office who are).

However, while awaiting utopia, your roommate might want to do something about
that hacking cough (or whatever).

If marriage is his best means to decent medical care, I see no ethical
objections to you two kids tying the knot.

Nor would you be deceiving the university if you did. It requires only marriage,
not love. If it demanded the latter, many a married couple would lose their
insurance. (And their privacy, when it came to the impossible task of
verification.)

That said, what ethics doesn't proscribe, practicality might. Should you and
your groom-to-maybe-be ever wish to part - perhaps one of you falls in love in
Massachusetts - divorcing could be more complicated and expensive than getting
married.

QI am a state-certified mediator and arbitrator. Recently I mediated a serious
dispute to the satisfaction of both parties. One of them, an American-born
Japanese businessman, offered to send me a special fish, prepared for eating, as
a token of appreciation.

I humbly refused the gift as a violation of my code of ethics. He was hurt by my
rejection of his Japanese custom, meant only to express appreciation.

Was I wrong?

AYou were right. Acceptable business practices vary from culture to culture, and
you could argue that when in Tokyo do as the Tokyovians (Tokyoites? Tokyoons?)
do.

However, you are not in Tokyo; you are in Florida and are bound by the mores of
that state (insert presidential-election joke here) and the ethics appropriate
to your profession.

What's more, from the American perspective, that code is reasonable.

Your case is already resolved and you cannot be corrupted by that fish gift, but
it would be unwise to promote the idea that in future cases (perhaps even
involving this man), a gift is expected in exchange for a satisfactory decision.

While your duty is clear, that Japanese businessman's hurt feelings are worthy
of consideration. (Why does our concern with conflicts of interest trump the
Japanese business ethics of gratitude and strengthened social ties?) And so you
must assure him that your actions reflect local custom; they do not imply
cultural superiority and certainly not a personal criticism.

Do you have ethical questions that you need answered? Send them to ethicist @
nytimes.com, or Everyday Ethics, New York Times Syndicate, 122 E. 42nd St., 14th
floor, New York, N.Y. 10168.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              182 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           September 26, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Finding a healthy deal on insurance;
AUDREY SPENCE MANAGING DIRECTOR, INDEPENDENT HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS (IHS) x

BYLINE: AUDREY SPENCE

SECTION: NI JOB FINDER;FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 823 words


'Being conscientious and ethical are most important in this role. My business is
built on reputation and as Northern Ireland is such a small place, you cannot
afford to give anyone the wrong advice,' says Audrey.

What does your job entail? My job is very varied and each day is different but
as Northern Ireland's largest independent health insurance broker one of the
main aspects of my job is to review the marketplace and negotiate with insurers
to make sure we are offering the best possible premiums available.

Each year businesses in Northern Ireland throw away thousands of pounds by not
shopping around when it comes to renewing their health insurance policy and I
would estimate IHS could reduce the cost of the current policy for around 95% of
businesses. Each insurance renewal is looked at on an individual basis,
depending on the needs of the client, and once I am happy that I've got the most
competitive quote I will meet with the client to discuss how the policy will
work over the next 12 months. A large element of my job is customer service and
offering advice - this is very important as a lot of people find it daunting to
contact a health insurance provider directly.

Is it 9-5? The administration side of my job is nine to five but I often meet
clients beyond working hours at various social events. It is lovely to catch up
with them outside of the office.

Healthcare is quite topical at the moment because of the NHS waiting lists and
you just never know when you are going to meet a new client - I've met new
clients at social events and even on holidays in Spain and Portugal.

I often travel to England as well to visit insurers and keep up to date with the
products on offer.

How did you get into this line of work? I got into medical insurance by chance.
I had taken two years out when my daughter was born and was looking for
something that could offer me flexibility.

I had just taken out a family healthcare policy with a company called WPA and
the following week I happened to see an advertisement in the Belfast Telegraph
that they were looking for self-employed sales advisers.

Within six months I became the NI regional sales manager and managed a team of
12 advisers.

Outline your career to date? My first job was in a shoe shop when I was still at
school. After school I joined the civil service where I worked for two years.
Looking for a new challenge, I was lucky to get a job at Gallaher's tobacco
company as an account manager and this is where I discovered my love of sales. I
worked in the licensed trade for a number of years before having my daughter but
going back to this line of work wasn't an option for me as it involved many
unsociable hours.

I got my first job in insurance with WPA where I worked for four years before
starting Independent Healthcare Solutions in 2002 - and I've never looked back.

Tell us about your qualifications/training I have Financial Services Authority
qualifications and every 12 months I sit an exam to ensure my knowledge is
upto-date as medical insurance is regulated due to the constant changes in the
industry.

What qualities are required for your job - personal and professional? Being
ethical and conscientious are most important in this role. My business is built
on reputation and as Northern Ireland is such a small place you cannot afford to
give anyone the wrong advice.

Communication with my colleagues is also very important as we all need to be
aware of what is going on with each other's clients.

What are the biggest challenges and rewards of your work? The biggest challenge
is to ensure we offer the best service to every client regardless if it is an
individual policy holder or a large corporate scheme. I am proud to say I have
never lost a client to any other broker, so I must be doing something right. The
most rewarding experience is helping a client to go through the process of
claiming and knowing that my advice and input has been a great help to them.

It can be a very hard time for someone with an ill child or someone who has just
been diagnosed with a serious illness so being able to guide them through the
insurance claim is the most satisfying aspect of my job.

What do you like to do in your spare time? I am trying to keep fit at the moment
and have been attending a boot camp class three times a week. I also enjoy
playing golf and I love to travel. I've been to many exciting places including
Sri Lanka, The Gambia and Cuba. I've just recently put in a new kitchen in my
house and I'm really looking forward to inviting my friends round and putting my
cookery books to good use.

Who has inspired you most in your life? Over the years I have lost some people
very close to me through accident or illness. That loss has inspired me to make
the most of every day and really appreciate the people around me. I am very
blessed to have such a wonderful daughter, family, great friends and a job that
I love, so what more could I want in life?

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEST ADVICE: Audrey Spence is the managing director of Independent
Healthcare Solutions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Monitor (McAllen, Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 15, 2010 Monday

UTPA ethics team going to national competition

BYLINE: Jennifer L. Berghom, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 430 words


Feb. 15--EDINBURG -- They may not have always agreed, but the group of students
from the University of Texas-Pan American came together to successfully argue
whether it is ethical for physicians to be involved in torture and whether
health insurance companies should charge women higher premiums.

The university's Collaboration for Ethics in the Professions team finished
undefeated in the Texas Regional Ethics Bowl competition in November in San
Antonio. UTPA, as well as Southern Methodist University, Texas Lutheran
University and University of the Incarnate Word, have been invited to compete in
the National Ethics Bowl in Cincinnati, Ohio, next month.

Team members said they spent months arguing cases among each other, which helped
them anticipate possible rebuttals from opposing teams in the competition, as
well as sharpen their research and their thought process.

"With traditional debate, rhetoric is more important than reasoning," said Kirk
Clark, a 23-year-old senior who is majoring in political science and philosophy.
"You have to back it up with good reasoning."

Because they don't know exactly what they will be asked or which side they will
be asked to argue, the team has to study and reason every aspect of the case.

"Some cases don't have a general opinion," said Sakshi Puri, a 22-year-old
senior majoring in biology and philosophy.

Puri has been assigned to study the case of Nadya Suleman, better known as
Octomom, the woman who gave birth to octuplets last year after undergoing in
vitro fertilization.

The UTPA student has had to read up on a wide variety of ethical issues to
prepare to argue the case because there are so many dilemmas attendant to it.
But Puri and fellow student ethicists said having to work with such broad topics
has helped them become better critical thinkers, which serves them well beyond
the competitions and has made them better students.

"(It is) just how an education should be," said Mikison Ehimika, a 21-year-old
senior majoring in political science. "It has enlightened my educational
experience."

____

Jennifer L. Berghom covers education and general assignments for The Monitor.
She can be reached at (956) 683-4462.

To see more of The Monitor, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.themonitor.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100215-MC-UTPA-ethics-team-going-to-national-competition-0215

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MC


                           Copyright 2010 The Monitor


                              184 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits; Investors have to ask: 'Does it make sense?

BYLINE: Eric Lam, Finanical Post

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E6

LENGTH: 462  words


This Saturday, as thousands switch off their lights for Earth Hour, investors
might find their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations to
evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3-million and an expense ratio
of 0.50%. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and
Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the list but
rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19% compared with the TSX 60's 9.74%. So far in 2011 though, the ETF is
slightly ahead posting a 6.92% gain compared with 5.45% for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," Mr. Mc-Mahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

erlam@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                            November 28, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ethical guidelines important in pandemic

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 247  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Governments preparing for a flu pandemic should develop ethical guidelines for
their plans that include health and disability insurance for health workers and
special assistance for people forced into quarantine, says a new report released
Sunday.

The report, prepared by the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics,
warns world governments, including Canada, are not doing enough to engage the
public in discussions about the ethical values that should underpin pandemic
preparedness plans.

Last year, the federal government released a plan outlining how it will prepare
for, and respond to, a flu pandemic that experts say could kill millions of
people worldwide. But the detailed blueprint, although prepared with the
assistance of provinces and public-health authorities, has not had much input
from the Canadian public. That has raised questions about whether the public
would panic in a pandemic and reject government decisions about how to deal with
the crisis.

The report discusses the importance of the public's trust to its acceptance of
the sometimes controversial measures taken by the government in a pandemic. It
states a rationale for these measures should be publicized, including why
antivirals and vaccine are given first to a priority list of people, such as
health-care workers.

World leaders have begun ramping up preparedness measures for a flu pandemic
because of the fear the H5N1 bird flu virus could soon turn into a strain
transmissible among humans.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                            August 10, 1997, Sunday

LETTER: LET THE PUBLIC TAKE THE NHS INTIATIVE

BYLINE: Harry Keen

SECTION: THE OBSERVER REVIEW PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 216 words


YOUR article on the Private Finance Initiative in the NHS (News, last week)
graphically described the downside of leasing badly needed new NHS hospitals
from private consortia. These deals are concocted with minimal public and
medical professional involvement between private finance consortia on the one
hand and hospital trust and health authority appointees on the other. They
involve the payment of vast sums of public money over many years in leaseback
agreements which will set the pattern of NHS hospital care provision for
generations, but they fulfill no general healthcare strategy, their detail is
cloaked in commercial confidentiality and they target profitability rather than
predicted needs.

The NHS Support Federation has proposed NHS Stakeholder Bonds as an alternative.
Offered by national or regional treasuries, NHS Bonds could provide competitive
rates of financial return which would attract the interest of pension funds,
insurance companies and many other bodies and individuals seeking sound ethical
investment opportunities. The cost to the taxpayer would be much lower than PFI,
the funds directed to meet planned and accountable health care policies and the
facilities retained in public hands.

Professor Harry Keen, NHS Support Federation, London SE1

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              187 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

New Jersey's Senate Race

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 488 words


One of the first big decisions Jon Corzine had to make as governor of New Jersey
was the appointment of a new senator to take his place in Washington. Mr.
Corzine chose the less-than-charismatic Representative Robert Menendez, and as a
result, New Jersey has the only Senate race this fall in which a Democratic
incumbent seems to be in any danger of defeat. Nevertheless, in his race with
State Senator Thomas Kean Jr., there is no question that Mr. Menendez is the
better choice.

The 38-year-old Mr. Kean, a son of the former New Jersey governor and
co-chairman of the 9/11 commission, is the latest in what has become a very long
line of second- and third-generation politicians hoping to achieve high office
on the back of their parents' reputations. Many of his positions seem to come
from a campaign playbook rather than conviction. He has called for the ouster of
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld while failing to criticize President Bush for
keeping Mr. Rumsfeld on.

Mr. Kean supports both balanced budgets and all of the administration's tax
cuts. Except for vague promises to vote against pork and to be tough against
corruption, he fails to suggest any budget reductions to deal with the deficit.
He wants voters to believe he would practice his father's moderate brand of
politics, but there is little to suggest he is much more than a conservative
Republican who opposes drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.

Mr. Menendez, 52, shows a much better grasp of the issues. In the House, where
he was the third-highest ranking Democrat, he was an accomplished legislator. He
opposed the resolution authorizing President Bush to go to war in Iraq, and he
has been outspoken in criticizing the administration's conduct of the war.

Mr. Menendez has a history of ethical lapses that have been all too common for
Democratic officials in New Jersey, especially for those, like him, who continue
to take an active part in local party politics. If re-elected, the senator
should make it clear he is giving up any role in the Hudson County Democratic
organization. But Mr. Kean has gone so far overboard in criticizing the senator
that he has attempted to use an episode in which Mr. Menendez actually fought
corruption early in his career as an example of unethical behavior.

Mr. Kean actually has a couple of ethical blemishes of his own. In one case, he
accepted thousands of dollars of campaign donations last year from executives of
the Horizon Blue Cross and Blue Shield health insurance companies while on the
same day voting with his party in the State Senate to maintain a tax exemption
for the companies.

New Jersey voters have a choice between a lawmaker who has done a good job of
representing the state's concerns and the nation's interests in the House and
the Senate and a state legislator with a shallow grasp of the issues and a
famous name. Our unqualified endorsement goes to Robert Menendez.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2006



CORRECTION: An editorial yesterday about the New Jersey Senate race incorrectly
described the timing of donations to the campaign of Thomas Kean Jr. by
executives of Horizon Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Jersey. The checks were
written for a fund-raiser for Mr. Kean that took place before the submission of
legislation that maintained a tax exemption for the companies. Mr. Kean did not
receive the money on the same day that he voted for that legislation. The
reference was based on an article in The Star-Ledger of Newark that the
newspaper subsequently corrected.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 15, 2014 Monday

Aflac Bilingual (Spanish) Sales Representative - Agent: Insurance. Entry Level
OK. Training Provided

LENGTH: 362  words

DATELINE: Arlington


National Defense Industrial Association has issued the following job release:


Aflac Bilingual (Spanish) Sales Representative - Agent: Insurance. Entry Level
OK. Training Provided
As a bilingual Aflac sales agent you will use your two languages and two
cultures to help companies determine what Aflac products are best for their
employees. This is more than a sales position; it's a career that provides
work-life balance and achievable financial security. Best of all, it does not
matter what kind of background you have; your success only depends on you. We
have had successful sales associates who come from various industries and job
types such as:

Retail, Sales, Inside Sales, Outside Sales, Customer Service, Call Center,
Clerical, Secretaries, Insurance, Healthcare, Marketing, Manufacturing, IT,
Legal
    Accounting, Receptionists, Human Resources, Administrative Assistant,
Business Development, Real Estate, Financial Services, Banking, Financial
Planner, Managers, Executives
    Teachers (or education), Office Manager or previous stay-at-home moms


Benefits:

Be your own boss: Pasa tiempo con tu familia.
    You can help people: While major medical insurance pays doctors and
hospitals, Aflac pays policyholders directly, unless assigned.
    Competitive earnings: Unlimited income potential.
    Training, tools and a strong support system.
    Renewal income and stock in a Fortune 500 company.
    Exciting incentives and company-sponsored trips.
    Participation in the company's growth and profitability
    with our stock bonus program.

Job Requirements:

Have excellent English and Spanish language skills.
    Eager to work. Tu éxito solo será limitado por ti.
    Associate's or bachelor's degree preferred, but not required.
    Prior sales experience not necessary.
    Entry level ok.

Why Aflac?
Aflac is a Fortune 500 company with strong brand recognition.
It has been named One of the World's Most Ethical Companies by
Ethisphere1magazine for 8 consecutive years.
1"World's Most Ethical Companies," (Ethisphere magazine, Q1 2014. [quarterly])

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits; Investors have to ask: 'Does it make sense?

BYLINE: ERIC LAM, Finanical Post

SECTION: BUSINESS: FINANICAL POST; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 453  words


This Saturday, as thousands switch off their lights for Earth Hour, investors
might find their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations to
evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3-million and an expense ratio
of 0.50%. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada and Suncor Energy Inc.
Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the list but rival insurance
Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19% compared with the TSX 60's 9.74%. So far in 2011 though, the ETF is
slightly ahead posting a 6.92% gain compared with 5.45% for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," Mr. Mc-Mahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits; Investors have to ask: 'Does it make sense?

BYLINE: Eric Lam, Finanical Post

SECTION: BUSINESS & AGRICULTURE; Pg. D4

LENGTH: 462  words


This Saturday, as thousands switch off their lights for Earth Hour, investors
might find their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations to
evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3-million and an expense ratio
of 0.50%. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and
Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the list but
rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19% compared with the TSX 60's 9.74%. So far in 2011 though, the ETF is
slightly ahead posting a 6.92% gain compared with 5.45% for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," Mr. McMahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

erlam@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2011 The Leader-Post, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits; Investors have to ask: 'Doesit make sense?

BYLINE: Eric Lam, Financial Post

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C10

LENGTH: 462  words


This Saturday, as thousands switch off their lights for Earth Hour, investors
might find their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations to
evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3-million and an expense ratio
of 0.50%. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and
Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the list but
rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19% compared with the TSX 60's 9.74%. So far in 2011 though, the ETF is
slightly ahead posting a 6.92% gain compared with 5.45% for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," Mr. McMahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

erlam@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits; Investors have to ask: 'Does it make sense?

BYLINE: Eric Lam, Finanical Post

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 462  words


This Saturday, as thousands switch off their lights for Earth Hour, investors
might find their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations to
evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3-million and an expense ratio
of 0.50%. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and
Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the list but
rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19% compared with the TSX 60's 9.74%. So far in 2011 though, the ETF is
slightly ahead posting a 6.92% gain compared with 5.45% for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," Mr. McMahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

erlam@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 24, 1995, Saturday

pounds 500 a month. How can you invest it with a clear conscience?

BYLINE: AMANDA DAVIDSON

SECTION: MONEY; Page  22

LENGTH: 957 words


Martin is 38 year old account director with a small clothing firm earning pounds
37,500 a year. He is married to Jenny, a 33-year-old deputy head teacher who
earns pounds 28,000. They have one daughter, four year-old Rebecca, a pounds
90,000 endowment-backed mortgage taken out in 1987 and pounds 500 a month to
invest. As practising Christians, they would like their money to have some
social benefit and want to avoid investing in the tobacco, alcohol or arms
industries. They do not want income until Rebecca is old enough to go to
university when they will also want to prepare for retirement.  Amanda Davidson
advises.

Martin and Jenny must consider protection before investment. They have a
four-year-old daughter who is likely to be dependent on them for the next 17 or
18 years. As practising Christians they can rest assured that there are some 30
funds from which they can choose. Some of their protection contracts can also be
invested ethically.

There is now reasonable performance data with which to compare so-called
"green'' funds. Had the couple invested ethically over the last five years the
ethical funds' return is likely to have matched that of the "non-screened''
funds. However, there are good and bad performers in this field, as in any
other.

Looking first at the mortgage, it is important for Martin and Jenny to keep
their endowment policy in place. It has been going since1987 and assuming it is
a with-profits policy it will have gathered some useful bonuses. Endowments are
long-term contracts and can be transferred to the couple's next property. To
cash an endowment early virtually guarantees a loss.

If Martin's firm has made no life assurance arrangements for him I would
recommend a minimum of pounds 200,000 worth of cover over 20 years . By that
time Rebecca is likely to be finished studying and hopefully have found a job.
Assuming Martin is a non-smoker, Legal & General is cheaper than many and offers
level-term assurance at pounds 46 per month. Many ethical investors prefer to
invest with mutual rather than proprietorial companies. For clients with strong
views in this area, Scottish Widows costs pounds 48 per month.

Jenny is likely to be in the teacher's superannuation scheme, where life
assurance is likely to take the form of a lump sum plus income for Martin.  But
this is probably not sufficient. To insure Jenny for pounds 100,000 over 20
years would cost only pounds ll a month with Scottish Equitable if she is a
non-smoker. Women are cheap to insure and this will provide a valuable addition
to her death-in-service cover.

It is vital that Martin carry permanent health insurance. If his employer does
not provide these benefits, a Zurich Life policy would cost him pounds 33 per
month. This would provide a benefit of pounds 2,000 per month until he was 60
with benefit paid after six months. This policy will increase by the retail
price index every year.

Martin could take out a critical illness policy to complement his health
insurance. With Skandia Life, which does invest ethically, pounds 100,000 worth
of critical illness cover would repay the mortgage and costs pounds 43 a month.

Martin and Jenny should not wait to sort out their pensions. By investing pounds
200 per month net of higher rate tax into Martin's pension, he can look forward
to an income of just under pounds 9,000 per annum in real terms at age 60, as
long as he increases his contributions as his income goes up. If he waits until
he is 48, then his income at 60 will be under pounds 4,000 per annum.

Pensions are particularly suitable to higher rate taxpayers. Every contribution
is offset against Martin's highest rate of tax. If the firm has no pension
scheme then Martin is eligible for a personal pension plan. However it may be
possible to invest the money in an executive pension plan funded by the company
into which Martin can make contributions, This takes some of the pension burden
from his shoulders. He should invest his pension fund with Friends Provident.
They have the largest and oldest ethical fund. Over a 10-year period it has
outperformed many of its non-ethical rivals.

Jenny should also look carefully at her pension. As a deputy head teacher she is
presumably in a pension scheme. But she should not be complacent.  It may be
that she will not get full year's service by the time she retires.  She should
consider topping up with additional contributions. It may be more suitable to
buy added years rather than invest in a free-standing arrangement.

Now we come to savings. The emphasis here has to be on providing Rebecca with
funds at university. This is likely to be a testing time for parents as the
grant system for students is being phased out. Even today, parents find
themselves supporting their children to the tune of pounds 3,000-pounds 4,000
per year.

I would recommend pounds 100 into a personal equity plan, which grows free of
tax and can be screened ethically. NPI, Scottish Equitable and HTR have good
screening policies and sound financial management. Peps are particularly
suitable for higher rate tax payers.

To balance out the equity base of a Pep (units fall as well as rise), a
with-profits friendly society bond would be sensible. Any monies invested in a
friendly society are tax-free. They must be held for 10 years or longer. They
should also put pounds 50 per month into a building society.  Finally, Martin
and Jenny may wish to change their bank account to the Co-operative, which has
made a stance of ensuring that customers' money is invested responsibly.

Amanda Davidson is a partner at Holden Meehan Independent, Independent Financial
Advisers specialising in ethical investment


LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd


                              194 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                August 29, 2001

Study finds major flaws in hospital waiting system
Harvard group urges Government to recognise ethical responsibility

BYLINE: By KATHRYN HOLMQUIST

SECTION: CITY EDITION; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 641 words


The hospital waiting list crisis must be "depoliticised" and dealt with by the
Government as a purely ethical issue, according to a new report on the problem.

A team of management experts linked to Harvard University has found fundamental
flaws in the operation of the waiting list system, in a major study of Irish
hospital and outpatient services.

Waiting times are frequently significantly longer than officially stated, the
group has concluded. In a research paper, following a Harvard case study of the
acute hospital service, the waiting system is described as "flawed, unequitable
and in need of re-engineering".

The team uncovered what it says is a three-month "unofficial waiting list" which
must be endured by public patients before they ever reach the official waiting
list.

Waiting lists are a management issue as much as a funding problem, says the
report of the Harvard Association of Ireland, Waiting Lists: Analysis,
Evaluation and Recommendations, by Prof Ray Kinsella, director of the Centre for
Insurance Studies in the UCD Graduate School of Business.

The association, a group of Harvard graduates in the Republic, volunteered to
address the issue of long hospital waiting lists, notably for public patients.
They gathered 50 senior managers from across a range of business and technology
disciplines unrelated to the health service.

The analysis of the system was conducted by 50 middle-management professionals
from a wide range of manufacturing and service industries. They interviewed "key
stakeholders" in the acute hospital process, such as hospital consultants,
hospital managers, GPs and patients.

The current waiting list of 26,000 people is "totally skewed" towards the
eastern region, the researchers report. People from outside Dublin are seeking
treatment at specialist units in the city, blocking access for people from the
eastern region, it adds.

Waiting-list data are unreliable and "you cannot manage what you cannot
measure", it says. Their report, which has been seen by The Irish Times and is
due to be published soon, advises the Government to "depoliticise" the
waiting-list issue by developing an equitable and transparent "single national
waiting list". This would be administered directly by the Central Statistics
Office and could be viewed on a website by doctors and the public, it suggests.

A "large swathe" of people who cannot afford private health insurance are being
marginalised in large numbers on waiting lists. "That's why waiting lists are
not simply an expression of 'excess' demand, or a crude rationing device to
accommodate demand within the finite resources available to Government: they are
an ethical issue, the incidence and impact of which is proportional to the size
of the list, and waiting time," the report says.

The report calls on the Government to recognise its ethical responsibility "to
ensure timely, universal access to the acute system on the basis of clinical
need".

The Government should consider reducing the number of health boards and adopting
a policy of "total management" of the acute hospital system. It must focus on
"commissioning" healthcare rather than "arbitrarily giving money in the hope
that it will make some impact".

It also identifies serious problems in outpatient departments, which are holding
patients in a "waiting-list loop" that keeps them returning again and again
because proper diagnostics and senior personnel are unavailable. Once listed as
waiting, patients categorised as "routine" are "left waiting for years, without
realistic expectation of treatment".

Calling for a fair and transparent system of assessing patients' true needs and
readiness for surgery, the report expresses concern that "he/she who shouts the
loudest may gain faster access while a less vocal person may be disadvantaged".

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


                              195 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            September 8, 2014 Monday

Aflac Bilingual (Spanish) Sales Representative - Agent: Insurance. Entry Level
OK. Training Provided

LENGTH: 362  words

DATELINE: Arlington


National Defense Industrial Association has issued the following news release:


Aflac Bilingual (Spanish) Sales Representative - Agent: Insurance. Entry Level
OK. Training Provided
As a bilingual Aflac sales agent you will use your two languages and two
cultures to help companies determine what Aflac products are best for their
employees. This is more than a sales position; it's a career that provides
work-life balance and achievable financial security. Best of all, it does not
matter what kind of background you have; your success only depends on you. We
have had successful sales associates who come from various industries and job
types such as:

Retail, Sales, Inside Sales, Outside Sales, Customer Service, Call Center,
Clerical, Secretaries, Insurance, Healthcare, Marketing, Manufacturing, IT,
Legal
    Accounting, Receptionists, Human Resources, Administrative Assistant,
Business Development, Real Estate, Financial Services, Banking, Financial
Planner, Managers, Executives
    Teachers (or education), Office Manager or previous stay-at-home moms


Benefits:

Be your own boss: Pasa tiempo con tu familia.
    You can help people: While major medical insurance pays doctors and
hospitals, Aflac pays policyholders directly, unless assigned.
    Competitive earnings: Unlimited income potential.
    Training, tools and a strong support system.
    Renewal income and stock in a Fortune 500 company.
    Exciting incentives and company-sponsored trips.
    Participation in the company's growth and profitability
    with our stock bonus program.

Job Requirements:

Have excellent English and Spanish language skills.
    Eager to work. Tu éxito solo será limitado por ti.
    Associate's or bachelor's degree preferred, but not required.
    Prior sales experience not necessary.
    Entry level ok.

Why Aflac?
Aflac is a Fortune 500 company with strong brand recognition.
It has been named One of the World's Most Ethical Companies by
Ethisphere1magazine for 8 consecutive years.
1"World's Most Ethical Companies," (Ethisphere magazine, Q1 2014. [quarterly]

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday

Insurance body urged to do more to raise standards;
LIA also has a big part to play in consumer education, says MAS official

BYLINE: Kelvin Wong , Finance Correspondent

SECTION: MONEY

LENGTH: 518  words


A TOP Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) official has urged the life
insurance body here to do more in the areas of consumer education and raising
ethical and professional standards in the industry.

Addressing industry representatives at the Life Insurance Association's (LIA's)
annual luncheon yesterday, MAS deputy managing director (prudential supervision)
Teo Swee Lian first offered praise - lauding the LIA for 'commendable
accomplishments' in the past year.

These included its more proactive approach in responding to public and media
comments on life insurance issues; and its role in conducting seminars and
developing consumer guides on products under the national financial education
programme MoneySense together with the MAS.

The LIA had also introduced industry standards on disclosure requirements for
the sale of long-term health insurance.

But Ms Teo said more could be done by the association to build on this good
work, including:

Spearheading consumer education programmes to increase community understanding
of life insurance;

Improving the clarity of product documents;

Taking on a more active role in developing industry standards such as in the
area of risk management; and

Raising ethical standards of agents and financial planning expertise of advisers

The profile of the consumer has changed with rising educational levels and
increased interest in financial planning, Ms Teo noted. 'They are raising more
questions about products that are marketed to them and demanding greater
transparency and accountability from insurance companies.'

LIA's executive director, Mr John Lockyer, agreed: 'It is a fact that we have
products which for many people, inherently, seem to be complex. We do need to
get across the relevant information.'

Mr Jason Sadler, who was re-elected LIA's president for a second one-year term,
also said in an address at the luncheon yesterday that it was important to
review the present disclosure regime.

The focus should be changed from 'the comprehensiveness of the information given
to customers to its effectiveness in ensuring that key features of our products
are understood'.

Mr Seah Seng Choon, the Consumers Association of Singapore's executive director,
noted that the LIA has made great strides in raising standards but said there
was 'room for improvement' particularly in the area of keeping errant agents in
check.

Figures from the consumer watchdog show that complaints against insurance
companies fell from 759 in 2004 to 544 last year but the bulk of the grouses
still related to allegations of misselling or misrepresentation.

'LIA may want to advise its members to come down more forcefully on agents who
step out of line,' Mr Seah said.

On expanding the insurance market further, MAS' Ms Teo pointed to two key
segments of consumers - high net worth individuals and the elderly.

With the increasing growth of wealth creation in the region, opportunities to
service sophisticated investors both domestically and in the region abounded,
she said. And as life expectancy rises, annuity products are expected to grow in
importance, she added.

kelvwong@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                            November 28, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Flu plans should include ethical guidelines

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 457  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Governments preparing for a flu pandemic should develop ethical
guidelines for their plans that include health and disability insurance for
health workers and special assistance for people forced into quarantine, says a
new report released Sunday.

The report, prepared by the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics,
warns governments throughout the world -- including Canada -- are not doing
enough to engage the public in discussions about the ethical values that should
underpin pandemic preparedness plans.

Last year, the federal government released a plan that spells out how it will
prepare for, and respond to, a flu pandemic that experts say could kill millions
of people worldwide. But the detailed blueprint, although prepared with the
assistance of provinces and public-health authorities, has not had much input
from the Canadian public. That has raised questions about whether the public
would panic in a pandemic and reject government decisions about how to deal with
the crisis.

The report released Sunday by the medical ethics think-tank casts a spotlight on
that shortcoming.

"When an influenza pandemic strikes the world many people, ranging from
government and medical leaders to health-care workers, will face a host of
difficult decisions that will affect people's freedoms and their chances of
survival," says the report.

"There will be choices about the level of risk health-care workers should face
while caring for the sick, the imposition of restrictive measures such as
quarantines, the allocation of limited resources such as medicines, and the use
of travel restrictions and other measures to contain the spread of the disease."

"Governments and health-care leaders need to make the values behind their
decisions public. They should discuss the values with people who could be
affected. They need to do this in advance of a health crisis, not when people
are lining up at emergency ward doors."

Among the report's recommendations:

- Professional colleges and associations for health workers should provide,
through their codes of ethics, "clear guidance" on the "expectations and
obligations" about their duty to provide care during a pandemic.

- Governments and the health sector should ensure disability insurance and death
benefits are available to health workers and their families adversely affected
while performing their duties.

- Governments should ensure the public is aware of the rationale for restrictive
measures such as quarantine and the "consequences" of non-compliance.

- Governments should offer backup support for people who are quarantined, such
as providing them financial support in lieu of lost income and arranging for
basic needs such as grocery shopping and paying their bills.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                              April 4, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits requires understanding

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: PERSONAL FINANCE; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 465  words

DATELINE: TORONTO


As thousands switched off their lights during Earth Hour on March 26, investors
might have found their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations
to evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: From an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadi-an companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme
that compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3 million and an expense ratio
of 0.5 per cent. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion
Bank and Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the
list but rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19 per cent compared with the TSX 60's 9.74 per cent. So far in 2011 though,
the ETF is slightly ahead posting a 6.92 per cent gain compared with 5.45 per
cent for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

Said McMahon: "We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly
in control of their money; people who want to feel good about their investments
as well as build dollars and cents."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits; Investors have to ask: 'Does it make sense?

BYLINE: Eric Lam, Finanical Post

SECTION: BUSINESS & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. F4

LENGTH: 462  words


This Saturday, as thousands switch off their lights for Earth Hour, investors
might find their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations to
evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3-million and an expense ratio
of 0.50%. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and
Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the list but
rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19% compared with the TSX 60's 9.74%. So far in 2011 though, the ETF is
slightly ahead posting a 6.92% gain compared with 5.45% for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," Mr. McMahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

erlam@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits; Investors have to ask: 'Does it make sense?

BYLINE: Eric Lam, Finanical Post

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 462  words


This Saturday, as thousands switch off their lights for Earth Hour, investors
might find their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations to
evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the ETF or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" Andrew Beer, manager of investment planning
with Investors Group, said in an interview. "And remember, what flies for some
investors doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they
consider as socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a
portfolio with just these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance (ESG) issues to develop a list of approved
holdings.

These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3-million and an expense ratio
of 0.50%. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and
Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the list but
rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19% compared with the TSX 60's 9.74%. So far in 2011 though, the ETF is
slightly ahead posting a 6.92% gain compared with 5.45% for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada. "There are some
that are more extreme."

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," Mr. McMahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

erlam@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                              April 4, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Taking the ethical path to profits

BYLINE: Eric Lam, Financial Post

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 458  words


As thousands switched off their lights for Earth Hour last month, investors
might have found their thoughts turning from earnings per share and valuations
to evaluating how ethical or moral their portfolios might be.

Based on the inherently subjective nature of ethics, however, it is important to
understand how the exchange traded fund or mutual fund makes its picks.

"A company can be ethical, but you always have to ask: from an investment
perspective, does it make sense?" said Andrew Beer, manager of investment
planning with Investors Group. "And remember, what flies for some investors
doesn't for others. Everybody has their own criteria, what they consider as
socially responsible. It can be very, very tough to build a portfolio with just
these funds."

Most fund companies will hire a research firm specializing in environmental,
social and corporate governance issues to develop a list of approved holdings.
These screen companies based on a range of criteria, from environmental records
to employee treatment and charitable work. Companies selling alcohol, weapons,
tobacco and pornography are generally excluded. How these parameters are broken
down and how strict the rules are depends on the firm, so the selection can vary
from fund to fund.

For instance the iShares Jantzi Social Index Fund uses the Jantzi Social Index
of 60 Canadian companies. The index screens using a "best of sector" scheme that
compares a company's record relative to its competitors.

Launched in 2007, it carries net assets worth $23.3 million and an expense ratio
of 0.50 per cent. Top holdings include Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion
Bank and Suncor Energy Inc. Interestingly, Sun Life Financial Inc. is on the
list but rival insurance provider Manulife Financial Corp. is not.

Modelled on the S&P/TSX 60, the ETF underperformed in 2010 posting a return of
8.19 per cent compared with the TSX 60's 9.74 per cent. So far in 2011 though,
the ETF is slightly ahead, posting a 6.92 per cent gain compared with 5.45 per
cent for the TSX 60.

"When you take out large sectors you are going to have a less diversified
portfolio, but there are still enough stocks for diversification," said Oliver
McMahon, director of product management with iShares Canada.

For those looking for something more sector-specific, there are ETFs focused on
areas such as alternative energy, clean-tech, or even particular religions.
There is also more choice in Canada when it comes to mutual funds, with active
participants including NEI Investments, Acuity Funds and Investors Group.

"We see many of our unitholders as DIY investors, people directly in control of
their money," McMahon said. "People who want to feel good about their
investments as well as build dollars and cents."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 17, 2014 Monday

Aflac Bilingual (Spanish) Sales Representative - Agent: Insurance. Entry Level
OK. Training Provided

LENGTH: 362  words

DATELINE: Arlington


National Defense Industrial Association has issued the following job release:


Aflac Bilingual (Spanish) Sales Representative - Agent: Insurance. Entry Level
OK. Training Provided
As a bilingual Aflac sales agent you will use your two languages and two
cultures to help companies determine what Aflac products are best for their
employees. This is more than a sales position; it's a career that provides
work-life balance and achievable financial security. Best of all, it does not
matter what kind of background you have; your success only depends on you. We
have had successful sales associates who come from various industries and job
types such as:

Retail, Sales, Inside Sales, Outside Sales, Customer Service, Call Center,
Clerical, Secretaries, Insurance, Healthcare, Marketing, Manufacturing, IT,
Legal
    Accounting, Receptionists, Human Resources, Administrative Assistant,
Business Development, Real Estate, Financial Services, Banking, Financial
Planner, Managers, Executives
    Teachers (or education), Office Manager or previous stay-at-home moms

Benefits:

Be your own boss: Pasa tiempo con tu familia.
    You can help people: While major medical insurance pays doctors and
hospitals, Aflac pays policyholders directly, unless assigned.
    Competitive earnings: Unlimited income potential.
    Training, tools and a strong support system.
    Renewal income and stock in a Fortune 500 company.
    Exciting incentives and company-sponsored trips.
    Participation in the company's growth and profitability
    with our stock bonus program.

Job Requirements:

Have excellent English and Spanish language skills.
    Eager to work. Tu éxito solo será limitado por ti.
    Associate's or bachelor's degree preferred, but not required.
    Prior sales experience not necessary.
    Entry level ok.

Why Aflac?
Aflac is a Fortune 500 company with strong brand recognition.
It has been named One of the World's Most Ethical Companies by
Ethisphere1magazine for 8 consecutive years.
1"World's Most Ethical Companies," (Ethisphere magazine, Q1 2014. [quarterly])

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 22, 2014 Monday

Aflac Bilingual (Spanish) Sales Representative - Agent: Insurance. Entry Level
OK. Training Provided

LENGTH: 362  words

DATELINE: Arlington


National Defense Industrial Association has issued the following job release:


Aflac Bilingual (Spanish) Sales Representative - Agent: Insurance. Entry Level
OK. Training Provided
As a bilingual Aflac sales agent you will use your two languages and two
cultures to help companies determine what Aflac products are best for their
employees. This is more than a sales position; it's a career that provides
work-life balance and achievable financial security. Best of all, it does not
matter what kind of background you have; your success only depends on you. We
have had successful sales associates who come from various industries and job
types such as:

Retail, Sales, Inside Sales, Outside Sales, Customer Service, Call Center,
Clerical, Secretaries, Insurance, Healthcare, Marketing, Manufacturing, IT,
Legal
    Accounting, Receptionists, Human Resources, Administrative Assistant,
Business Development, Real Estate, Financial Services, Banking, Financial
Planner, Managers, Executives
    Teachers (or education), Office Manager or previous stay-at-home moms


Benefits:

Be your own boss: Pasa tiempo con tu familia.
    You can help people: While major medical insurance pays doctors and
hospitals, Aflac pays policyholders directly, unless assigned.
    Competitive earnings: Unlimited income potential.
    Training, tools and a strong support system.
    Renewal income and stock in a Fortune 500 company.
    Exciting incentives and company-sponsored trips.
    Participation in the company's growth and profitability
    with our stock bonus program.

Job Requirements:

Have excellent English and Spanish language skills.
    Eager to work. Tu éxito solo será limitado por ti.
    Associate's or bachelor's degree preferred, but not required.
    Prior sales experience not necessary.
    Entry level ok.

Why Aflac?
Aflac is a Fortune 500 company with strong brand recognition.
It has been named One of the World's Most Ethical Companies by
Ethisphere1magazine for 8 consecutive years.
1"World's Most Ethical Companies," (Ethisphere magazine, Q1 2014. [quarterly])

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                             August 19, 2013 Monday

Health reporting: call for preparing 'Ethical Code of Conduct'

BYLINE:  RECORDER REPORT

SECTION: Vol. XLIX No. 228

LENGTH: 288  words


Speakers at seminar on Sunday called upon the provincial health authorities to
prepare a draft of Ethical Code of Conduct for health reporting in consultation
with relevant stakeholders and media organisations.

The seminar titled: 'The role of journalism in promoting evidence-based health
policy for reducing child mortality & improving maternal health" was organised
by Mishal Pakistan in collaboration with Research and Advocacy Fund, Save the
Children Programme, Pakistan, here at Peshawar Press Club.

Speakers underscored the need for following ethical guidelines in health
reporting. They suggested that health department, medical professionals and
civil society organisations should prepare a draft of Ethical Code of Conduct
for health reporting in consultation with media organisations. The participants
of the seminar included members of civil society organisations, health reporting
specialists, journalists from print and electronic media.

Mishal Pakistan officials said that basic purpose of the seminar was to increase
awareness about health issues and to ensure access to and improve quality and
coverage of maternal, new-born, child health and nutrition services.

"Every year nearly three million babies die within the first month of life, most
from preventable causes and more than a million of these babies die on their
first day," they said.

Speaking on the occasion, Nasir Hussain, President Peshawar Press Club said that
media should enhance focus on health issues and play its role in promoting
awareness among relevant stakeholders.

Appreciating the initiative, he said that these activities played an important
role in capacity-building of health journalists and better understanding of
health issues in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                             August 19, 2013 Monday

Health reporting: call for preparing 'Ethical Code of Conduct'

BYLINE:  RECORDER REPORT

SECTION: Vol. XLIX No. 228

LENGTH: 288  words


Speakers at seminar on Sunday called upon the provincial health authorities to
prepare a draft of Ethical Code of Conduct for health reporting in consultation
with relevant stakeholders and media organisations.

The seminar titled: 'The role of journalism in promoting evidence-based health
policy for reducing child mortality & improving maternal health" was organised
by Mishal Pakistan in collaboration with Research and Advocacy Fund, Save the
Children Programme, Pakistan, here at Peshawar Press Club.

Speakers underscored the need for following ethical guidelines in health
reporting. They suggested that health department, medical professionals and
civil society organisations should prepare a draft of Ethical Code of Conduct
for health reporting in consultation with media organisations. The participants
of the seminar included members of civil society organisations, health reporting
specialists, journalists from print and electronic media.

Mishal Pakistan officials said that basic purpose of the seminar was to increase
awareness about health issues and to ensure access to and improve quality and
coverage of maternal, new-born, child health and nutrition services.

"Every year nearly three million babies die within the first month of life, most
from preventable causes and more than a million of these babies die on their
first day," they said.

Speaking on the occasion, Nasir Hussain, President Peshawar Press Club said that
media should enhance focus on health issues and play its role in promoting
awareness among relevant stakeholders.

Appreciating the initiative, he said that these activities played an important
role in capacity-building of health journalists and better understanding of
health issues in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            November 9, 2004 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1910 words


A legal outrage

CONGRATULATIONS, Karen Kissane, on a truly moving and educative chronicle of
Julie Ramage's abuse and slaying by her husband ("Honour killing in the
suburbs", Insight, 6/11).

That we still allow this legal outrage of death by provocation condones extant
injustices, knowing as we do the dynamics of sustained domestic violence. The
time for removing this defence is well past.

One can hardly guess at the grief of Julie's family, sister and her friends -
and that of the Clearys, and other families in the past. To suffer Julie's
killing, then her vilification, then the unspeakably cowardly resort to the
excuse of provocation and blaming the victim is, I imagine, an enduring horror.

To Julie Ramage's children, parents, sister and friends, I would say of this
dreadful verdict: there are many people across Australia who recognise that it
is not just, and it should not endure.

Ellie Herbert, Gulfview Heights, SA

Making an ethical closure impossible

DAVID Campbell (Opinion, 6/11) gives an accurate depiction of the bitterness and
contempt that can build between two people whose relationship has irrevocably
broken down.

As relationship counsellors, we have witnessed similar despairing scenes, and
would try to support both the person who wants to leave to be free to go and the
other to survive the loss.

Campbell purposely leaves the genders of his protagonists unclear, suggesting,
quite rightly, that anyone can say these things. However, if there is a
background of domestic violence to this vignette, statistics suggest that the
person who wants to leave is most likely a woman.

And if the vignette ends in murder, the victim will most certainly be a woman
and her murderer will be a man. (To our knowledge there are no contemporary
Australian cases of a woman murdering a man who want to leave, or murders
occurring in separating same-sex couples.)

The Ramage manslaughter verdict leaves counsellors with an impossible problem:
ethical practice requires us to support the woman's freedom to leave and the
man's responsibility for his own actions; however the law currently does not.

Reform must take place to prevent this dangerous interpretation of the law
occurring again.

Liz Telford and Jyan Mayfield, Victorian branch, Australian Association of
Marriage and Family Counsellors

Waiting for some answers

THE questions that must be asked about the continued growth of public waiting
lists for surgical procedures in public hospitals revealed in The Age (8/11)
are:

· What has the much-vaunted increase in private health insurance through the 30
per cent rebate done to curb the increase in waiting lists?

· Are all the people on the public hospital waiting list without private health
insurance?

· If they do not have private insurance, is the reason that, despite the 30 per
cent rebate, they cannot afford it?

· If that is the case, surely the $2 billion to $3 billion a year and growing
costs of the private health rebate would be better spent on public hospitals to
bring down waiting lists?

· Or is this too much of a philosophical anathema to the Howard Government, with
its aversion to a universal health system for all Australians?

Michael Freeman, Croydon

Greed-inflicted pain

YOUR report on Keith Herron's wait for knee replacement (The Age, 8/11) details
a great tragedy. But rather than blaming Medicare or governments, can we now
discuss the national scandal that we have a chronic, self-generated shortage of
medical specialists due to the fact the specialists keep an absolute lock on
graduates coming through the colleges, to keep numbers low and incomes high. And
it's not just in orthopedics that the shortages are beginning to bite.

When are governments finally going to crack down on Australia's most powerful
trade union?

David Beattie, Mont Albert

Moses, Macbeth and Mark Latham

AFTER noting the misgivings of Shaun Carney (Opinion, 6/11), we must ask: does
Mark Latham have the qualities of a Moses?

Gough Whitlam did, as he proved by knocking the Labor Party into shape and
leading it out, after 23 years in the wilderness, into the Promised Land. Bob
Hawke achieved a similar result for Labor after eight years.

Can Mr Latham deliver the party from the wilderness after 12 years - and more
likely, 15? Can the party afford to give him four to seven years on the learning
curve in the hope that he is Moses?

If not, then the party should bite the bullet. Time wasted does not return.
Macbeth put the matter eloquently:

If it were done when 'tis done,

Then 'twere well

It were done quickly.

F. G. Colyer, Drysdale

Rationalists do it better

NICHOLAS Tonti-Filippini (Opinion, 8/11) is obviously a faith-based ethicist,
and that faith is based on beliefs and writings 2000 to 10,000 years old.

Such faith ignores the thinking and knowledge of the enlightenment and the
scientific world. It is why faith-based ethicists reach different conclusions to
those arguing from the sum of human knowledge: they both reason, but the latter
will do it better.

One cannot object to Dr Tonti-Filippini holding such faith-based ethics, but it
is not acceptable that he attempt to impose such absolute views by means of a
distortion of the political process.

His Catholic co-religionists in Parliament were not elected on the platform of
change to the community's view on abortion, and they do not represent their
electorates in putting forward such arguments and proposals.

Dr Rodney Syme, Toorak

Faith v reason

NICHOLAS Tonti-Filippini wants faith-based opinions influencing public policy.
He refers to "rational faith"; however, faith involves believing without
evidence, and this is not rational. Without standards of proof and reason,
anything goes.

Brent Howard, Rydalmere, NSW

Why I'm sneering

WHILE basking in the glow of recent political victories of the faithful, Dr
Tonti-Filippini asks: "Will the sneering at the religious now stop?". My
response is: No! (In fact, I feel a great big sneer coming on right now.)

Turn your copy of your Age (8/11) back to page 13 and you may see why. Here we
have a photograph showing two ranks of American marines lined up outside
Fallujah. What are they doing? Why, getting ready to pray, of course! What else
would you do before going off to kill other human beings?

Isn't there a "Thou shalt not" covering this - or does that one only apply to
abortion and euthanasia?

David Castles, Box Hill North

Stick to camels

RELIGION has absolutely no place in the political debate. Societies' moral
standards are decided by what are considered norms and they change over time. If
the Bible is used as some sort of moral reference manual then our standards will
be frozen and unable to progress with society.

Those who advocate public policy based on religious morality would perhaps be
better advised to spend their time by taking up a hobby such as threading a
camel through the eye of a needle.

Phil Pearson, Ferntree Gully

The A-word

IT'S interesting to note the hysterical reaction of many abortion rights
advocates to anybody mentioning the word "abortion". Why are they so afraid of
having a debate about this issue? Why do they feel the need to unleash a barrage
of personal insults and worn-out rhetoric in response to an attempt to debate
this important issue?

John Smyth, Reservoir

Vice-regal duty

REMEMBER the previous governor-general? The one who failed to protect innocent
children from predators? The one who had to go, because the public decided he
had failed morally? We should let the existing G-G, then, speak about whether
innocent foetuses should be protected from abortions. Otherwise we'd be guilty
of double standards.

Lionel Windsor, Newtown, NSW

Terra nullius?

PETER Kartsounis' assertion (8/11) that Palestine was viewed as "Terra nullius"
by the international community when it established Israel is greatly misleading.
In 1947, the UN voted to establish an Arab state as well as a Jewish state in
Palestine. However, this new Arab state was not recognised by the surrounding
Arab countries, which invaded Palestine with the intention of destroying Israel
- which had accepted the UN partition plan - and annexed lands meant for the
Palestinian state.

Leon Kofmansky, McKinnon

Gone Googlin'

WHILE Thomas L. Friedman (Opinion, 8/11) is Googling for Arafat's "vision for
how Palestinians would educate their youth" in the air-conditioned comfort of
his New York Times office, Palestinian students are either waiting hours at
Israeli checkpoints to get to or from school; dodging Israeli bullets on their
way to or from school; shut up in their homes for weeks on end during Israeli
closures; or, when they do make it to school, being shot while sitting at their
desks.

Colin Andersen, Lapsone, NSW

I'll just sip my latte and bide my time

AS A proud representative of "Western Europe's most pampered generation" I wish
to reassure Tony Parkinson (Opinion, 6/11) that we will cope perfectly well
during the next four extra years of Dubbya at the White House.

You see, Tony, we "post-Marxists" strongly believe that we have time and history
on our side and we know, by necessity, the virtue of patience. So, for the next
four years, from the sidelines, we'll continue to observe with interest George
W. trying to extricate himself from the mess he has created in Iraq.

Philosophically, we will keep sipping at our strong caffe latte, while reading
with amusement the intellectual contortions of conservative propagandists as
they keep trying to justify the indefensible.

Jean-Jacques Portail, North Melbourne

Hoi polloi

THE many smug letter writers over the past month might ponder a small selection
of the reasons to not get carried away about being in the majority:

· The majority once believed the sun revolved around the Earth and the Earth was
flat.

· Slavery was once very popular.

· A Spice Girls album sold more copies than Simon & Garfunkel's Bridge Over
Troubled Water album.

· Australian Idol attracts massive ratings.

· Candle in the Wind (Diana version) sold more copies than Bohemian Rhapsody.

· Collingwood has the largest supporter base in the AFL.

John Ogge, Lara

True-blue champion of the world game

FIRST from the soccer pitch and then from the TV screen, soccer legend Johnny
Warren - who died in Sydney at the weekend (The Age, 8/11) - gave migrants like
us a visible and strong affirmation of the multicultural project. He didn't just
believe in the merits of the round-ball game, but also its power to unify
cultures and underpin migrant communities' participation in mainstream
Australian life.

When he spoke of how well run football clubs like Marconi or South Melbourne
were, he was talking about the enormous capacity of ethnic communities to bring
together individuals from all walks of life in a sporting, business, and social
environment. Equally, when Warren spoke about the importance of Australian
soccer forging closer ties with Asia or South America, he was trumpeting the
virtues of being an open and cosmopolitan society over one attached to
narrow-minded parochialism.

Thanks for the memories, Johnny, and more importantly, the inspiration.

Anthony Abate, Sydenham

Credit where it's due

THREE months ago, my 19-year-old son got his first job. The bank immediately
issued him with a shiny piece of blue plastic. Today he is out of work and owes
$2000 on his credit card.

Economists, and in particular those close to the Treasurer, will be pleased with
his contribution to the increase in consumer spending over the past quarter and
the ensuing added boom-boom to our booming economy.

Peter Appleton, Ballarat North

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON BY WILCOX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 ComputerWorld

                                August 24, 2009

Steering Clear of Scandal;
Savvy CIOs do more than legal compliance. They help the business avoid ethics
disasters. By Mary K. Pratt

BYLINE: Mary K. Pratt

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 1593 words



HIGHLIGHT: Savvy IT leaders can provide strategic advice and build systems that
help their companies avoid ethics catastrophes.


The IT staff at Texas Health Resources Inc. must deliver more than technical
functionality. And it needs to deliver more than the business requirements: It
also has to meet the organization's ethical standards.

To that end, its systems must help ensure that Texas Health complies with laws
and regulations. And they also have to promote the right behaviors and prevent
or flag undesirable ones, says Michael Alverson, vice president and deputy CIO
at the Arlington-based nonprofit health care system.

Consider the challenge of handling patients' medical records. Even though the
federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act mandates that
agencies keep those records private, caregivers still need to access them --
when appropriate.

So the organization's electronic health records system gives doctors and nurses
who are caring directly for patients quick access when they use the right
authentication, Alverson says. But additional authentication is required to get
records for patients who aren't under the provider's immediate care. The system
records who gets access to what, allowing officials to audit and review cases to
ensure there's no inappropriate access.

The IT staff holds itself to similar ethical standards, too, Alverson says. The
department has policies that prohibit taking gifts and endorsing vendors, to
help guarantee that workers make procurement decisions only based on quality and
needs. And when there's any question -- such as when a vendor proposes a deep
discount if Texas Health agrees to be an early adopter of a new technology -- IT
leaders can turn to the systemwide Business and Ethics Council for guidance.

"If we really want everyone to subscribe to the idea that working at Texas
Health is special, then we have to have people actively believe in doing the
right thing," Alverson says.

Companies are increasingly looking at their ethics policies and articulating
specific values that address a range of issues, from community commitment to
environmental sustainability, which employees can use to guide their work. The
need to comply with federal laws and regulations drives some of this, while
consumer expectations, employee demands and economic pressures also play a part.

"Companies use the term 'corporate ethics' to mean many different things. In
many organizations, if not the majority, it means compliance with a set of legal
and minimum standards. In other organizations, corporate ethics means defining a
set of corporate values that are integral to how they go about business," says
Kirk O. Hanson, executive director of the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics at
Santa Clara University.

Either way, CIOs have an opportunity to show how technology can further their
companies' ethics objectives.

"Policy decisions at the very senior level need the sensitivity that IT experts
can bring to the table," Hanson says. "CIOs will know the capabilities of IT and
be able to contribute that to corporate strategy. They will also know the
misuses of those capabilities and be able to flag those and prevent the
organization from stepping in scandals."

Hanson cites a 15-year-old case in which marketing workers at a large telephone
company spent millions of dollars to develop a list of customers with ties to
the Washington area that they planned to sell to other marketers. In violation
of company policy, they compiled the list using the company's database of
customers who frequently placed calls to the District of Columbia.

Executives learned about the list before the marketing department sold it. IT
then developed a system to monitor use and block future unauthorized access to
such information, Hanson says. However, it came a bit late, since IT should have
developed the application in advance, anticipating the need to protect the
information as well as detect any efforts to breach it.

Red Flags

Hanson says IT today can build systems that can screen potential subcontractors
and vendors to see if they share certain values. It's also possible to create
tools that flag contracts whose costs exceed expectations in ways that suggest
bribery or other improprieties, or set up systems that analyze customer
satisfaction surveys to find evidence of unethical behaviors on the part of
workers.

Meanwhile, companies that put green initiatives at the top of their ethical
concerns can have IT create applications that track energy consumption to flag
anomalies that indicate inefficiencies or calculate the corporate carbon
footprint and identify ways to reduce it.

"You have to step back a minute and ask, 'What is the role of technology around
ethics?' " says Dena L. Smith, senior technology consultant to the board of
trustees at Capital University in Columbus, Ohio, and part owner of an IT
consulting firm in Dublin, Ohio. "Technology can help from a monitoring,
protection and prevention standpoint in a lot of ways."

The notion of corporate ethics hasn't always been so broad, says Mike
Distelhorst, a law professor at Capital University Law School, a former adjunct
professor of business ethics at the Capital School of Management and Leadership
and former executive director for the university's Council for Ethical
Leadership.

More Than Compliance

Corporate ethics for a long time simply meant compliance with laws and
regulations, Distelhorst says. But in the early 1990s, business schools started
to emphasize the idea of integrity-based ethics, where companies developed
ethics statements based on their own values and priorities and not just
compliance with federal and state rules. Motives range from pure altruism to the
notion that good ethics make for good business.

Still, he says, few companies are leaders in integrating their corporate
responsibility programs into their day-to-day business dealings.

"You'd be hard-pressed to find any company that doesn't have a beautiful ethics
and compliance program," Distelhorst says. "They're talking about it, and
they're working it all out in various strategic documents. But the question is
whether they're actually living by it. Some are, and clearly some aren't."

Regardless of where a company stands in the process, IT leaders should be ready
to contribute, he says.

"These policies are worked out on the ethics and compliance committees below the
board level, and they're having the CIO as a key player," Distelhorst explains.

That's the case at Intel Corp. , says the company's CIO, Diane Bryant.

Intel's Ethics and Compliance Oversight Committee established the following five
principles for the company and its workers: Intel should conduct business with
honesty and integrity; the company must follow the letter and spirit of the law;
employees are expected to treat one another fairly; employees should act in the
best interests of Intel and avoid conflicts of interest; and employees must
protect the company's assets and reputation.

Intel's IT staff builds and maintains the systems that allow the company to meet
its legal and regulatory requirements, such as those laid out for accounting and
governance by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Bryant says. It also developed
applications and a team of workers to handle document retention, which is
crucial should there be a legal case with electronic discovery requests.

But IT also enables Intel to enforce its own values, and not just meet
regulatory requirements, Bryant explains. So there are applications to help
perform rigorous checks on suppliers to ensure that they have sufficient
business continuity plans and environmental sustainability plans as well as
ethical stances that match Intel's own. IT has also delivered sophisticated
systems that monitor the power consumption and carbon dioxide emissions of
Intel's data centers. And it developed systems that monitor for potential
malicious behavior, such as violations of access management rights or the public
release of Intel's intellectual property.

"We put solutions in place that help protect Intel's five principals," Bryant
says.

Few companies are that advanced in their use of technology to further an ethical
agenda, says John Stevenson, a former CIO who is now president of JG Stevenson
Associates LLC , an IT management consultancy in Plano, Texas.

"The level of sophistication offered by CIOs varies," he says. "Some CIOs prefer
to stand back and hear what the companies want to do. They're the ones taking
orders."

Anemic leaders might do nothing more than block access to inappropriate Web
sites, Stevenson says. Those at the next tier might deploy applications to
comply with the laws that govern their businesses, but they probably wouldn't
have systems that monitor or report on how their organizations meet
higher-level, company-specific ethical objectives.

"There are really only a handful of organizations that have effectively used IT
to support the ethics and corporate responsibility programs of their
organizations," the Markkula Center's Hanson adds.

He says Corporate America is only now slowly moving from making commitments to
certain ethics and values to actually putting them into practice.

"Companies recognize that they have to be on record as being committed, but
they're not yet as convinced that they have to manage it like other parts of
their business," Hanson explains.

But when companies do decide to move in that direction, that's when CIOs can
shine, offering ideas on what metrics to use and what to measure.

"That's where IT can be a real leader," Hanson says, "since they know what can
be measured and captured."

Pratt is a Computerworld contributing writer in Waltham, Mass. Contact her at
marykpratt@verizon.net

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 International Data Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                          February 11, 1993, Thursday

US "BLUES' ASSOCIATION TIGHTENING STANDARDS

BYLINE: MICHAEL L. MILLENSON; Chicago Tribune

SECTION: INSURANCE, Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Battered by months of congressional hearings documenting financial and ethical
irregularities by some Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans, the national Blue Cross
and Blue Shield Association is adopting stricter standards.

Under those standards, plans that don't maintain adequate financial reserves are
being threatened with loss of the charter that allows them use of the Blue Cross
and Blue Shield names. The national association plans to use a formula that
takes the risk of each plan's business into account in deciding just how uch
capital is adequate.

In addition, Blues plans are being told to participate in state guaranty funds,
which protect consumers should the plan go bankrupt, or to set up some other
type of similar reserve.

Critics, however, say the new rules on finances and ethics will be difficult to
enforce. The Chicago-based association is essentially a trade group overseeing
72 health plans covering 68 million Americans, or about one- third of all people
with health insurance.

In Illinois, the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association already is regulated by
the state insurance commissioner and participates in the fund, but that is not
true for the majority of Blues plans.

"Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans recognize that their success depends upon
maintaining standards of financial health and sound, ethical business practice,"
the national association says in a statement sent to all member plans.

But whether the new standards decrease the political pressure on the Blues
remains to be seen.

"A voluntary association setting standards may not be adequate to fully protect
the customers," said a source at the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners, which has a task force investigating the Blues' problems.

National confidence in the insurer has been weakened by hearings before the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations showing mismanagement and
questionable conduct by several member plans that has gone undetected by the
national organization.

For instance, the head of the Washington, D.C., plan flew to Europe on the
supersonic Concorde on behalf of a subsidiary that dabbled in insurance deals
with Lloyd's of London.

Said Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., the subcommittee chairman, "Instead of tightening
their own belts and serving the public, some of the plans we have investigated
appear to have spent their subscribers' premiums at best unwisely, and at worst
recklessly."

And last summer, Bernard Tresnowski, president of the Chicago-based national
association, acknowledged that 15 member plans had been put on a ''watch" list
because they failed to meet association standards for adequate financial
reserves.

Yet the new standards for capital and liquidity adopted by the national Blues
association will continue to be confidential. A critic who is an official at one
Blues plan dismissed that idea as "a joke."

Blue Cross refused to comment because the report on ethics was not yet official.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              209 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                               February 14, 2013

Minister wants to stop patient rip-offs

BYLINE: Mia Malan

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1218 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mia Malan speaks to the health minister and others in the healthcare
sector about the guideline tariffs


<strong>Government:<br /> Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi </strong><br />
&quot;I can't be expected to be neutral in the pricing of healthcare. Every
health minister in the world will demand that healthcare is affordable. However,
I did not tell the Health Professions Council of South Africa to introduce low
tariffs in order to make doctors affordable to the National Health Insurance
(NHI) scheme.

&quot;But the NHI is coming for sure - within the next five years. Doctors who
out-price themselves won't be part of it. I don't know what they will be part
of. Private healthcare in South Africa is extraordinarily expensive. Tariffs
won't be introduced with the intention of making it impossible for doctors to
make a living.

But ripping off people is not the only way to make a decent living.

&quot;I did not tell the council what tariffs to introduce. It is merely trying
to fill a vacuum: without tariffs, there is chaos; it's the law of the jungle.
How can the council calculate whether a doctor or dentist has overcharged
someone without having a benchmark tariff? The council is trying to fill a
vacuum and the tariffs it wants to introduce are an interim measure, until I've
managed to sort out things with the Competition Commission so that we are able
to sit around a table with doctors and negotiate prices.&quot;

<strong>Human rights organisation:<br /> Section 27</strong><br /> In its
submission about tariffs to the council, the human rights organisation Section27
raises concerns about the applicability of using the 2006 national reference
price list as a &quot;ceiling&quot; or &quot;ethical&quot; tariff. It argues
that the price list represents &quot;average&quot; rather than
&quot;maximum&quot; costs in 2006 and that the council should find a more
scientific and accurate basis to calculate tariffs.

&quot;The core concern is that if the price-list is not set at a realistic level
and doctors can opt out provided that they have informed consent from the
patient, there will be no downward pricing pressure. It will simply become the
norm for doctors to ignore the tariff schedule and routinely get patients to
sign informed consent forms,&quot; says senior researcher, Sha'ista Goga.
&quot;Also, this tariff does not set boundaries for when a fee is ethical and
when it can be classified as overcharging. This makes assessing complaints of
overcharging very difficult and is unfair to providers and patients.&quot;

<strong>Medical organisations:<br /> The dental association and the Private
Practitioners Forum</strong><br /> Medical organisations are sceptical about the
council's public participation process.

&quot;We are watching the process with a hawk's eye and are highly suspicious of
it,&quot; said Maretha Smit of the South African Dental Association. &quot;We
strongly suspect there is an already written document with tariffs lying on
someone's desk that will be accepted, regardless of our input.&quot;

Neil Kirby, of law firm Werksmans Attorneys, which represents the Private
Practitioners Forum and the association, said: &quot;If people are ignored, the
[tariff] list will end up in the courts [again].&quot;

<strong>Medical schemes:<br /> Discovery Health</strong><br /> Will Discovery
gravitate towards the council guideline tariffs? That is, if the tariffs turn
out to be vastly lower, would Discovery adjust its fees accordingly?

According to Jonathan Broomberg, chief executive of Discovery Health, the
medical scheme developed its tariff schedules on the principles of balancing
adequate remuneration with the skills and experience of doctors, and ensuring
the long-term affordability and sustainability of medical schemes.

&quot;Discovery Health tariffs are currently about 50% above the historic
&lsquo;medical scheme rates' and about 90% of all specialist and general
practitioner consultations for Discovery members occur with doctors who are
contracted with medical schemes managed by Discovery Health at these tariffs.
Discovery would not reduce its doctor tariffs if recommended tariffs by the
council come out lower, because this would undermine the &shy;principles of
adequate remuneration for doctors,&quot; said Broomberg.

&quot;It is critical that both tariffs and coding schemes are continuously
evaluated and updated. This is a highly technical process and no statutory body
currently has the expertise to conduct this process. In our view, the only
feasible mechanism is a structured, bilateral negotiation process in which
doctors and healthcare funders can work together in a structured manner to reach
agreement each year. Within this framework, the health department could play a
critical role, setting the rules for the structured negotiation process and
intervening in situations where no agreement is reached.&quot;

&lt;hr /&gt;

&lt;h2&gt;

Setting fee rules has been an intricate process&lt;/h2&gt;

South Africa does not have guideline tariffs for medical treatment because of a
complex series of events, mostly to do with court action resulting from a lack
of consultation with medical professionals in determining the tariffs.

Before 2004, according to the Health Professions Council, tariffs were
determined by medical aids, doctors and dentists. In 2004, the Competition
Commission ruled that the setting of negotiated fees was anti-competitive.

In 2006, the Council for Medical Schemes published a national health reference
price list, which was used to determine reasonable medical aid reimbursement
rates. The council adopted three times the medical aid rate as its ceiling or
ethical tariff -; a cut-off fee that was used to decide whether a practitioner
had overcharged.

However, the South African Dental Association's chief executive, Maretha Smit,
said the council also used what she dubs &quot;professional rates&quot;, which
were calculated by the South African Medical and Dental Association until 2006
to determine whether an unethical fee had been charged. Adjusted,
inflation-related sets of the professional &shy;tariffs were published annually
until 2006. These tariffs were higher than the medical aid rates and, according
to the dental association, were based on the actual costs of procedures and
labour.

In 2008, the council scrapped its ethical tariffs because the health department
decided to create its own price list, which the council was expected to use.

In 2010, the North Gauteng High Court declared the department's price list
invalid after medical associations took it to court and accused it of &quot;lack
of consultation&quot;.

In August last year, the council attempted to publish new guideline tariffs in
the &lt;em&gt;Government Gazette&lt;/em&gt; but backtracked on its decision
after doctors' and dentists' associations threatened it with court action for
not consulting them. They argued that the council did not have a mandate to
calculate the fees in the first place. The process has been opened to public
submissions until February 21.



LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                               February 14, 2013

Minister wants to stop patient rip-offs

BYLINE: Mia Malan

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1222 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mia Malan speaks to the health minister and others in the healthcare
sector about the guideline tariffs.


<strong>Government:</strong><br /> <strong>Health Minister Aaron
Motsoaledi</strong><br /> &quot;I can't be expected to be neutral in the pricing
of healthcare. Every health minister in the world will demand that healthcare is
affordable. However, I did not tell the Health Professions Council of South
Africa to introduce low tariffs in order to make doctors affordable to the
National Health Insurance (NHI) scheme.

&quot;But the NHI is coming for sure - within the next five years. Doctors who
out-price themselves won't be part of it. I don't know what they will be part
of. Private healthcare in South Africa is extraordinarily expensive.

Tariffs won't be introduced with the intention of making it impossible for
doctors to make a living. But ripping off people is not the only way to make a
decent living.

&quot;I did not tell the council what tariffs to introduce. It is merely trying
to fill a vacuum: without tariffs, there is chaos; it's the law of the jungle.
How can the council calculate whether a doctor or dentist has overcharged
someone without having a benchmark tariff? The council is trying to fill a
vacuum and the tariffs it wants to introduce are an interim measure, until I've
managed to sort out things with the Competition Commission so that we are able
to sit around a table with doctors and negotiate prices.&quot;

<strong>Human rights organisation:</strong><br /> <strong>Section 27</strong><br
/> In its submission about tariffs to the council, the human rights organisation
Section27 raises concerns about the applicability of using the 2006 national
reference price list as a &quot;ceiling&quot; or &quot;ethical&quot; tariff. It
argues that the price list represents &quot;average&quot; rather than
&quot;maximum&quot; costs in 2006 and that the council should find a more
scientific and accurate basis to calculate tariffs.

&quot;The core concern is that if the price-list is not set at a realistic level
and doctors can opt out provided that they have informed consent from the
patient, there will be no downward pricing pressure. It will simply become the
norm for doctors to ignore the tariff schedule and routinely get patients to
sign informed consent forms,&quot; says senior researcher, Sha'ista Goga.
&quot;Also, this tariff does not set boundaries for when a fee is ethical and
when it can be classified as overcharging. This makes assessing complaints of
overcharging very difficult and is unfair to providers and patients.&quot;

<strong>Medical organisations:</strong><br /> <strong>The dental association and
the Private Practitioners Forum</strong><br /> Medical organisations are
sceptical about the council's public participation process.

&quot;We are watching the process with a hawk's eye and are highly suspicious of
it,&quot; said Maretha Smit of the South African Dental Association. &quot;We
strongly suspect there is an already written document with tariffs lying on
someone's desk that will be accepted, regardless of our input.&quot;

Neil Kirby, of law firm Werksmans Attorneys, which represents the Private
Practitioners Forum and the association, said: &quot;If people are ignored, the
[tariff] list will end up in the courts [again].&quot;

<strong>Medical schemes: </strong><br /> <strong>Discovery Health</strong><br />
Will Discovery gravitate towards the council guideline tariffs? That is, if the
tariffs turn out to be vastly lower, would Discovery adjust its fees
accordingly?

According to Jonathan Broomberg, chief executive of Discovery Health, the
medical scheme developed its tariff schedules on the principles of balancing
adequate remuneration with the skills and experience of doctors, and ensuring
the long-term affordability and sustainability of medical schemes.

&quot;Discovery Health tariffs are currently about 50% above the historic
&lsquo;medical scheme rates' and about 90% of all specialist and general
practitioner consultations for Discovery members occur with doctors who are
contracted with medical schemes managed by Discovery Health at these tariffs.
Discovery would not reduce its doctor tariffs if recommended tariffs by the
council come out lower, because this would undermine the principles of adequate
remuneration for doctors,&quot; said Broomberg.

&quot;It is critical that both tariffs and coding schemes are continuously
evaluated and updated. This is a highly technical process and no statutory body
currently has the expertise to conduct this process. In our view, the only
feasible mechanism is a structured, bilateral negotiation process in which
doctors and healthcare funders can work together in a structured manner to reach
agreement each year. Within this framework, the health department could play a
critical role, setting the rules for the structured negotiation process and
intervening in situations where no agreement is reached.&quot;


<hr />              <strong>   Setting fee rules has been an intricate
process</strong>

South Africa does not have guideline tariffs for medical treatment because of a
complex series of events, mostly to do with court action resulting from a lack
of &shy;consultation with medical professionals in determining the tariffs.

Before 2004, according to the Health Professions Council, tariffs were
determined by medical aids, doctors and dentists. In 2004, the Competition
Commission ruled that the setting of negotiated fees was anti-competitive.

In 2006, the Council for Medical Schemes published a national health reference
price list, which was used to determine reasonable medical aid reimbursement
rates. The council adopted three times the medical aid rate as its ceiling or
ethical tariff - a cut-off fee that was used to decide whether a practitioner
had overcharged.

However, the South African Dental Association's chief executive, Maretha Smit,
said the council also used what she dubs &shy;&quot;professional rates&quot;,
which were calculated by the South African Medical and Dental Association until
2006 to determine whether an unethical fee had been charged. Adjusted,
inflation-related sets of the professional &shy;tariffs were published annually
until 2006. These tariffs were higher than the medical aid rates and, according
to the dental association, were based on the actual costs of procedures and
labour.

In 2008, the council scrapped its ethical tariffs because the health department
decided to create its own price list, which the council was expected to use.

In 2010, the North Gauteng High Court declared the department's price list
invalid after medical associations took it to court and accused it of &quot;lack
of consultation&quot;.

In August last year, the council attempted to publish new guideline tariffs in
the Government Gazette but backtracked on its decision after doctors' and
dentists' associations threatened it with court action for not consulting them.
They argued that the council did not have a mandate to calculate the fees in the
first place. The process has been opened to public submissions until February
21.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    November 17, 2002 Sunday FINAL C Edition

Man, 76, gets kidney from employee: The transplant for a wealthy developer was
done outside the country

SOURCE: Canadian Press

SECTION: News; Pg. B15

LENGTH: 334 words

DATELINE: TORONTO

TORONTO -- A wealthy Toronto developer paid a large sum of money to the Mayo
Clinic to have his live-in housekeeper's kidney transplanted into him -- an
operation that four Canadian hospitals refused to do on ethical grounds,
according to a report Saturday.

Surgeons at the Rochester, Minn., clinic performed the operation on Murray
Menkes, 76, in October 1999, after officials were satisfied that the Filipina
housekeeper, who is now 54, was acting on compassionate grounds.

The housekeeper apparently signed an agreement spelling out how she would not be
compensated for donating her organ and that she was doing it on her own
initiative, according to a decision by Ontario's Health Services Appeal and
Review Board.

"It's just like saving another person's life," she said in a telephone
interview.

Menkes, who was receiving dialysis three times a week before his transplant,
said, "I'm fine. I'm cured, but not by our system."

His case raises a troubling question: can an employee freely give her kidney to
her employer upon whom she depends for her livelihood?

The answer in this case was no, for the Toronto General Hospital, St. Michael's
Hospital in Toronto, London Health Sciences Centre and the British Columbia
Transplant Society. The answer from Ontario's medicare system was also no; it
refused to pay for Menkes' out-of-country care.

Had Menkes not sought reimbursement from the Ontario Health Insurance Plan, the
story would not have become public.

Details are provided in a decision of the Health Services Appeal and Review
Board, a little-known group that hears appeals from Ontario residents seeking
reimbursement for out-of-country medical expenses.

Menkes, who founded Menkes Developments Inc., was twice refused reimbursement
first by Health Ministry medical consultant David Cow and then by the Health
Services Appeal and Review Board that found the scenario unacceptable in Ontario
"due to ethical concerns relating to the relationship between recipient and
donor."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday

WHY WE ALL OWE A HUGE DEBT TO HENRIETTA

BYLINE: ROSAMUND URWIN

LENGTH: 551 words


THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS

by Rebecca Skloot

(Macmillan, £18.99)

HENRIETTA Lacks is one of the great heroines of modern medicine. But while the
central figure in Rebecca Skloot's first book helped to save countless lives, no
hospitals are named after her. She was never given awards. For years, she was
regularly called the wrong name. And some scientists still remember her
contribution only as an abbreviation -- HeLa -- the name given to the world's
first "immortal" cell line, taken from Henrietta in 1951 before she died from
cervical cancer.

Before Henrietta, researchers had found it impossible to keep human cells alive
outside the body. But the slice of tissue cut from her tumour was different: its
cells multiplied rapidly. HeLa became the ultimate research tool, sent around
the world, spawning a multi-billion-dollar industry.

Her cells have been into space, been exposed to massive doses of radiation and
helped to create a polio vaccine.

But the woman from whom they were taken was largely forgotten. As the scientist
Robert Stevenson tells Skloot in one of her book's many ethical discussions:
"Scientists don't like to think of HeLa cells as being little bits of Henrietta
because it's much easier to do science when you disassociate your materials from
the people they come from."

More troublingly, though, Henrietta never gave consent for her cells to be
removed. And for 22 years her family didn't even know their mother had gained
this Petri dish immortality.

Skloot tries to restore Henrietta's humanity. Researching her book also acts as
catharsis for Henrietta's family, especially her younger daughter Deborah, who
has been tormented by what happened to her mother.

A poor African-American woman from Baltimore, Henrietta died in a "coloured"
ward, at the age of 31. She is described as a warm, glamorous woman with painted
red nails who loved to dance. Even before her cancer diagnosis, though, life was
difficult: she had a philandering husband and one of her five children, Elsie,
was sent to the Hospital for the Negro Insane.

The racial politics of the medical world is a theme which pervades the book.
While Henrietta's cells were being taken, white doctors were performing
horrifying experiments on black patients. And the sense of injustice carries
into the modern day.

As her son Lawrence asks: "She's the most important person in the world and her
family lives in poverty. If our mother is so important to science, why can't we
get health insurance?" A science writer, Skloot skilfully explains the medical
and ethical dimensions but is less impressive linguistically, her language
occasionally slipping into the banal: "No one had to tell us something awful
happened at Crownsville -- we could feel it in the walls."

But Skloot's big mistake is her desire to cast herself as one of the heroines of
the piece. Her detective work is impressive but she could have let it speak for
itself, instead of imposing herself on the narrative. The doctor who removed
Henrietta's cells, Dr Gey, insensitively referred to them as his "precious
babies" and the reader might question whether the author sees Henrietta's tale
in the same way. Skloot should be applauded for giving recognition to
Henrietta's enormous, accidental gift. It's just a shame that she had to muscle
in on the story.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2010   Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 12, 2005 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

HEADS UP DEADLINES | GUIDELINES | HOTLINES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 356 words


Drivers can renew licenses at mobile bureau Oct. 20

Drivers can renew their licenses and obtain duplicate or corrected licenses and
Illinois identification cards at the secretary of state's mobile driver services
facility in O'Fallon, Ill., on Oct. 20. The facility will be set up from 9:30
a.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the O'Fallon Township offices, 801 East State Street.

To renew, drivers need only their current valid license or ID card. For
duplicates or corrections, drivers need two forms of identification. A list of
acceptable forms is available online at
www.cyberdriveillinois.com/publications/pdf_publications/dsd_a1751.pdf or by
calling 1-800-252-8980.

Edwardsville police will watch for drunk drivers

Beginning Monday, Edwardsville will have extra officers on duty to look for
drunken drivers.

The special patrols will continue until Oct. 31 and are funded by a $14,950
grant from the state Department of Transportation. The grant pays for officers
to work overtime and devote all of their time to catching drunken drivers.

This is the first of eight such patrols that will occur within the next year.

Summit on Saturday will address rural health care

Rural health care will be among the topics discussed at a regional economic
development summit on Saturday at Blackburn College, 700 College Street in
Carlinville.

One of the scheduled speakers is Lizzie Kucharski, downstate organizer for
Illinois for Health Care. She will speak about the "Healthy Illinois," a
proposal to create an affordable statewide health insurance plan.

Other topics to be discussed at the free summit include work force development,
job retention, business recruitment and small business development. The summit
begins at 8:30 a.m. There is no cost to attend. To reserve a spot, call
1-217-854-4441.

Ethical Society holds social action fair

The Ethical Society of St. Louis will hold a social action fair from 11 a.m. to
2 p.m. Sunday at 9001 Clayton Road. The fair will showcase issues and activities
that are faith-based and secular.

State Rep. Jeanette Mott Oxford, D-St. Louis, will speak at 11 a.m.

For more information, visit www.ethicalstl.org or call 314-991-0955.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              214 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                            June 29, 2017, Thursday

Edward James Olmos wants pet owners to stay home July 4

BYLINE: Sigal Ratner-Arias The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P5D

LENGTH: 305 words


NEW YORK Edward James Olmos has a message for pet owners on the Fourth of July:
Stay home.

Noisy fireworks on Americas birthday can startle animals and cause them to run
away. Olmos has teamed up with People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals to
urge owners to comfort their pets or at least leave a TV or radio set on to mask
the blasts so they dont get as scared.

Many animals have actually broken through glass windows and doors to get out of
the house, the veteran actor told The Associated Press in a recent interview.
They dont know where the explosion is coming from, all they know is that there
are explosions and they immediately take it in a fearful way.

The insurance giant Nationwide, which provides pet health insurance, last year
reported that the most common Fourth of July pet injuries were laceration caused
by pets breaking through a glass window or fence. Other firework-related pet
injuries included being hit by a car after becoming spooked by fireworks, near
drowning after falling in pools and strangulation by collars getting caught.

If you stay with them, it helps them, added Olmos, who starred in Stand and
Deliver and earned an Oscar nomination. Theyll tremble, theyll shake, but they
will at least feel secure enough not to do any bodily harm to themselves.

PETA Latino Senior Manager Alicia Aguayo says that Fourth of July fireworks can
spell disaster for animals who end up in animal shelters or even disappear
forever after running in fright from the explosions.

Olmos plans to stay home with his beloved Moe, a 10 year old Labrador retriever
whom the actor has tweeted about photos included a few times. Hes a really
wonderful dog, said the owner proudly. He is a service dog, so he works at
hospitals with children and with people and he is wonderful.

Online:

https://www.peta.org

https://www.petalatino.org

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Charleston Newspapers


                              215 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday

Doctors fear Medicare cuts may stick this time

BYLINE: Ben Sutherly and Chelsey Levingston, Hamilton JournalNews, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 540 words


Nov. 03--A large Medicare reimbursement cut in January could affect older
Ohioans' access to doctors and the amount they pay for health care, industry
observers said.

The cut also could make it more difficult for some physicians to remain in
private practice, they said.

An old budget rule could cut Medicare reimbursements to doctors by nearly 30
percent. While such cuts have been repeatedly delayed at the last minute by
Congress, some doctors fear the outcome could be different this time, given the
nation's budget woes.

Medicare is health insurance for those over 65 and others with particular health
conditions. Medicare paid out $515.8 billion in benefits in fiscal 2010.

Approximately 30 percent or 280,000 of a total roughly 950,000 patients
University of Cincinnati Physicians saw last year were Medicare patients, said
Dr. Myles Pensak, chief executive officer.

UC Physicians is the physician division of UC Health and has offices in West
Chester Twp.

"In general, I think practices, individuals physicians, large physician groups
are going to be caught in an ethical, economical tension dilemma," Pensak said.

Patients on Medicare tend to be more complex and have more than one medical
issue, Pensak said. It will be unsustainable to knock a key revenue stream down
as costs of running a practice are rising, he said.

If the 30-percent cut takes effect, doctors will have to balance the moral,
ethical obligation to see patients who need care with the costs of running a
business, he said.

"This becomes a huge potential challenge for UCP," he said. "I think this is a
conundrum we're all facing."

If the 30-percent cut takes effect along with a possible 2-percent payment
reduction from a congressional deficit-reduction plan, patients can anticipate
fewer physicians accepting Medicare.

Health care providers rely on Medicare the most in the Dayton metro area,
according to data provided by the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association.

The percentage of patient days covered by Medicare was 54 percent at Dayton-area
hospitals in 2009. The percentage of patient days covered by Medicare was 47
percent at Cincinnati-area hospitals in 2009.

The Medicare Part B program, which pays physicians, and Medicare Part D, which
pays for prescriptions, derive much of their funding from general revenues.

Such revenues are under scrutiny as part of efforts to cut the federal deficit,
said Bob Applebaum, director of the Ohio Long-term Care Research Project at
Miami University's Scripps Gerontology Center.

"That does make the physician cut probably a bigger issue than it ever has been
before," Applebaum said. But, he said, "most people think it will end up getting
addressed as it has in the past."

Cuts to Medicare could reduce patients' access to health care, as cuts to
Medicaid have done, Applebaum said. But it's more likely that doctors would
accept Medicare as partial payment and pass more of the cost to patients.

"When we've tried to control wages to physicians in the past, they have proven
to be amazingly resourceful in figuring out how to maintain their incomes," he
said.

___ (c)2011 the Hamilton JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) Visit the Hamilton
JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) at www.journal-news.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111103-HL-Doctors-fear-Medicare-cuts-may-stick-this-time-20111103

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HL


                        Copyright 2011 The Journal-News


                              216 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

End-of-Life Duty

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 598 words


At 65 years old, I am facing a final diagnosis for lung cancer and the prospect
of a 15 percent survival rate. If this is confirmed, would it be ethical to put
myself through painful long-term treatment and to have the people who love me
endure this? At my age, is it ethical to consume the health care dollars
involved? What is the tipping point to elect aggressive care? Thirty percent?
Sixty percent? G.M., JACKSON HEIGHTS

You have no ethical duty to refuse treatment solely on the basis of its cost or
your age. Nor is there a universally accepted signpost indicating when a
patient's chance of survival is high enough to seek aggressive care. As you
indicate, many factors must be weighed: the costs to the community, the
emotional toll on those you love, your own suffering, the quality of life you
can expect after treatment. All should be discussed with your physician and your
family.

Even under similar circumstances, different people will reach different -- and
honorable -- conclusions. Terrie Fox Wetle, associate dean of medicine for
public health and public policy at Brown University and an expert in end-of-life
care, told me in an e-mail: ''This decision also involves the individual's
personal values and preferences. For some, quality of life is more important
than quantity of days that may be gained by aggressive treatment.''

Current health policy devotes enormous resources to end-of-life care rather
than, say, wellness throughout life. Some studies suggest that 25 percent of
Medicare money is spent on people in the last year of life, 40 percent of that
on their last month. But it would be asking a lot of anyone to please die more
quickly so that we can trim our health care budget. Most of us will live and die
much like our neighbors, according to the norms of our society. And so it is
incumbent on us all to think about how public policy shapes those norms.

Whatever you decide, Wetle adds, ''clearly articulated advanced care planning,
including living wills and designation of health care proxies, reduce the risk
of inappropriate or unwanted interventions.'' These are matters to discuss with
your lawyer as well as your doctor.

UPDATE: Exploratory surgery determined that G.M. does not have lung cancer. He
recently returned to work. His doctors continue to monitor him.

A friend and I took on a renovation project, but various problems led us to sell
the property before we finished. I calculated his share of the sale at $11,000;
he thought he was due more. Mediation failed to resolve our dispute, and my
friend sued, seeking $94,000. The case was ultimately dismissed. I still feel I
owe him $11,000, but he cost me more than $9,000 in legal expenses. May I
subtract that from the debt? B.S., BOSTON

I admire your determination to pay your friend what you believe you owe him even
though the law does not require it. And I agree that you may reasonably deduct
your legal fees from that debt. It is he who imposed them on you by filing suit.
So sure, send him $11,000 less that $9,000 -- that is, $2,000 -- along with a
courteous note explaining how you arrived at that figure, the epistolary and
financial equivalent of extending the hand of friendship. But be wary: such
hands have been bitten off before. And your (former?) friend does believe you
owe him a lot more money and some flamboyant groveling.

I write this with some trepidation, having only your version of events. Your
friend's account -- and his accounting -- no doubt differ.

UPDATE: Subsequent developments raised B.S.'s legal bills to $14,000,
effectively wiping out the debt, he believes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW WOODSON)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 13, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Lobbyists Shift Into Reverse;
Politicians Pursue Interest Groups to Deliver Health Care Votes

Michael Weisskopf, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 920 words


One of the enduring images of Washington features a lobbyist in expensive
loafers collaring an attentive-looking politician.

Now in the battle over health care legislation, the shoe is on the other foot.
As they seek the high ground in the morass of competing plans and proposed
compromises, presidential aides and congressmen are lobbying the lobbyists.

If this practice is not new, the intensity of it is. Whether it is the White
House getting retail druggists to promote prescription drug benefits, House
Republicans trying to keep insurers from collaborating with the president on a
political ad or a Democratic committee chairman enlisting interest groups to
help deliver a swing vote, reverse lobbying is a staple of the topsy-turvy
politics of health care.

"It makes one pause because usually we're pursuing them," said Charles N. Kahn
III, of the Health Insurance Association of America (HIAA). "When they're
pursuing you, you have to wonder what happens next time you're pursuing them.
Obviously, we're going to need help from these people in the future. You hate to
turn any of them down."

The notion of mutual help raises ethical questions for legislators who are in a
position to benefit industry. According to political scientist James Thurber of
American University, the practice of reverse lobbying illustrates the
"reciprocity that runs Congress."

"When members ask interest groups to help them out, later when interest groups
ask them for something, they're likely to be more favorable," he said.

One example of the leverage lawmakers can exert involved Ameritech, Baby Bell of
the Midwest. The company raised Republican hackles when it endorsed President
Clinton's employer mandates -- requirements that employers pay part of the cost
of insurance for their workers -- on April 18 and invited him to a facility in
Milwaukee to rally support for it.

Two days later, four Republicans on the Energy and Commerce subcommittee on
telecommunications and finance, including the ranking minority member, wrote
Ameritech President Richard C. Notebaert registering "strong displeasure" with
the endorsement and pointedly referring to pending industry legislation vital to
the company.

The letter noted GOP efforts to draft a health care plan without mandates and
ended with a plea "that you be helpful in this endeavor."

The four Republicans are cosponsors of legislation that would allow regional
Bell operating companies to offer cable television service outside their region.
The legislation passed Energy and Commerce in March and awaits action on the
House floor.

"From our recent discussions with you on telecommunications legislation," said
the letter initiated by Rep. J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.), "we were under the
impression that you believed that government regulations hindered
competitiveness and true competition. Thus, your support for a proposal that
will result in a tremendous burden on American businesses is surprising." The
letter was also signed by Minority Leader Robert H. Michel (Ill.) and Minority
Whip Newt Gingrich (Ga.)

Rep. Bill Richardson (N.M.), a Democratic member of the telecommunications
subcommittee, said that by linking health care reform to the telecommunications
bill the letter represented a "veiled threat of retaliation."

In an interview, Hastert said that while the two issues are "philosophically
linked," his letter was not intended to link support of one piece of legislation
to the other.

As the party in power, Democrats have more to offer in return for help in
advancing their political agenda. The White House has tried to get automakers,
pharmacists and the elderly to pitch in. Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman
John D. Dingell (D-Mich.) directed a coalition of labor unions and health
professionals to lobby undecided Democrats.

Reverse lobbying may come more naturally to many Republicans who have
long-standing ties to big business. HIAA, whose Harry and Louise ads did more
than any single lobbying tactic to hobble Clinton's plan, is run by a former GOP
congressman, Willis D. Gradison Jr.

But his onetime colleagues cut Gradison little slack when he visited the White
House in mid-April to discuss the possibility of a joint ad on employer
mandates.

As soon as word leaked out, HIAA officials received calls from GOP staffers on
Energy and Commerce arguing against collaboration with the White House, industry
sources said.

"It's been conveyed to Gradison that fooling around on employer mandates would
not earn you brownie points and would be ill-advised," said a lobbyist.

The best-publicized case of reverse lobbying was led by Rep. John A. Boehner
(R-Ohio), who pressured the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to back off its support for
employer mandates in February. He got dozens of House Republicans to call their
local chambers and ask them to demand that Washington withdraw its endorsement
of the provision.

It paid off when a Chamber official, repudiating advance testimony submitted to
the House Ways and Means Committee, announced the Chamber's opposition to "high
employer premium contributions" as proposed by Clinton.

Boehner, in an interview, said the Republican pressure was appropriate because
"you had traditional allies acting in a very nontraditional way."

He defended reverse lobbying as "part of the process in an interactive
democracy."

"It's a way to energize the people who share your values and principles and
possibly your political objectives," Boehner said. "There's no quid pro quo
involved."


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              218 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 11, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH PAUL ROOT WOLPE;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1112 words


Q. AS NASA'S CHIEF BIOETHICIST, WHAT DOES YOUR WORK INVOLVE?

A. I'm an adviser to the chief medical officer for the agency. I don't make
decisions. Instead, I analyze situations and policies and offer bioethical
perspectives on specific problems.

NASA does hundreds of research studies. Every astronaut who goes into space is,
essentially, a human research subject. NASA's looking at the effects of
weightlessness, of G-forces and radiation on the human body. One of the things I
do is look over the research protocols and make sure they are in compliance with
earth-bound regulations about informed consent and health and safety. I also try
to help solve some of the thorny ethical problems of medical care for astronauts
in space.

Q. WHAT WOULD BE AN EXAMPLE OF THAT?

A. According to OSHA regulations, workers -- including astronauts -- can only be
exposed to a limited amount of radiation at their workplace over their
lifetime. Humans in space are subjected to much more radiation than anyone on
earth would be. So there was this one case where an astronaut was close to the
limit of exposure because of space travel, and then he had medical radiation
treatments for cancer.

Astronauts want to fly as much as possible. That's what they do. This one didn't
want the medical radiation to count against the lifetime limit because it hadn't
happened in the workplace. NASA had to weigh the letter of the law against the
intent of the law. I said, ''Exposure is exposure.'' The decision ultimately
went that way.

Q. MOST BIOETHICISTS WORK IN HOSPITALS. HOW IS THE NASA JOB DIFFERENT?

A. In an earth-based medical situation, the priority is the health and
well-being of the patient. On a spaceship, that has to be balanced with the
health and well-being of the other crew members and the success of the mission
itself. Ethics in space are more of a balancing act. You need to weigh a series
of priorities and figure out which is paramount.

Imagine you had a severely injured astronaut on the surface of Mars -- or a dead
body. American soldiers will put themselves at great risk to retrieve a dead
body. On Mars, you have a different situation. You might be endangering the
entire mission by trying to retrieve the body. In that case, you might recommend
that it be left behind, even if that is against our ethical traditions.

Or what do you do if someone has a psychotic episode while in space?

I've written that there has to be medication and restraints on the craft. If you
have to restrain the person for a long period of time, you have to do it. You
can't thank the person for their service to the country and put them out into
space. You can't medicate them to insensibility for a year and a half. You have
to find a reasonable way to manage the situation.

Q. YOU MENTIONED EARLIER THAT NASA DOES BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH IN SPACE. HOW DO THE
ASTRONAUTS FEEL ABOUT BEING RESEARCH SUBJECTS?

A. For the most part, they want to help. There have been some who, in some
situations, have refused. They are covered by  something called the Common Rule,
which includes the right to withdraw from an experiment at any time or to refuse
to participate, without penalty -- as any human research subject in the United
States would be.

Astronauts have refused experiments that interfered with their getting enough
sleep while in space -- it's very hard to sleep in microgravity. Others opted
out because they were concerned that medical information collected on them
couldn't really be private and might interfere with their getting health
insurance after retirement. But on a flight with seven people, if one opts out,
you've cut your research population significantly. This led an advisory panel to
suggest a ''modification of the interpretation'' of the Common Rule for
astronauts.

I thought that the Common Rule was our most basic protection for human research
subjects and said it was a mistake to erode it. I recommended that what NASA
should do is continue to increase something they'd already started to do --
involve the astronauts in every level of the research process. For a reasonable
concern like health insurance, I suggested that NASA offer lifetime insurance to
the astronauts, which they are trying to now do. It's a comparatively low-cost
way to solve a problem.  To this date, there's been no modification of
interpretation of  the Common Rule for astronauts.

Q. WHAT WAS THE MOST UNUSUAL QUESTION NASA HAS POSED TO YOU?

A. It wasn't an ethical question, it was a religious one. My father, the late
Gerald Wolpe, was a rabbi,  as are two of my brothers. There had been an Israeli
on the crew of the Columbia shuttle. After it broke up, NASA wanted to know
about Jewish religious standards in regard to gathering and interring remains.
NASA teams were recovering pieces of bodies on the ground in Texas and
Louisiana, much of it unidentifiable. And NASA wanted to know if the Israeli
government would want only Ilan Ramon's flesh returned to it because, if so,
NASA would have to do genotyping of every piece of tissue. That would take
months.

I told them there were countervailing values. In Judaism you bury the body as
soon as possible. I didn't think the Israelis would want to have months and
months pass.

I've since heard that a lot of the tissue buried in the various graves of these
astronauts was unidentified. There's something touching that some of what is
buried in each of their resting places is tissue from all of them.

Q. DID YOUR BECOMING A BIOETHICIST HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH YOUR FATHER'S WORK?

A. I think so. He was very involved in bioethics, even before it was a
recognized field of study. He taught a course about death and dying at a medical
school. At a time when there were few dialysis machines for people with kidney
disease, he was on a state commission to decide who could get priority access to
them. All of that came home in 1986, when my mother had a stroke and he became
her primary caregiver. It made the whole family even more aware of the stresses
caregivers suffer.

I was in graduate school at the time this happened, studying medical sociology.
But I could see that this new field, bioethics, was rapidly developing. It
combined everything I loved: medicine, the life sciences and the ethics I'd
grown up with. For me, it was the perfect fit.

Paul Root Wolpe, 52, is a medical sociologist and bioethicist who directs the
Center for Ethics at Emory University and is  the first chief of bioethics for
NASA. We spoke this summer in New York after Dr. Wolpe appeared at the World
Science Festival and then again  in Philadelphia. An edited and condensed
version of the two conversations follows.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1997, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PROTECTING GENETIC INFORMATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 06B

LENGTH: 385 words


President Bill Clinton's effort to bar insurance companies from discriminating
against people on the basis of genetic disorders is welcome, though his plan
doesn't address all the problems.

The problems are both real and potential.

The real problems affect more than 20 percent of those who have genetic
disorders. They report higher rates of rejections in getting health insurance
and jobs.

The potential problems could affect most of the rest of us; we're reluctant to
make use of this emerging technology to determine whether we carry defective
genes because we're afraid such knowledge will cause insurers and employers to
do to us what they have done to many known carriers of gene defects.

Some federal lawmakers have responded by drafting a bill to deny insurers access
to genetic information. Mr. Clinton claims to be strengthening that bill by
specifying that genetic data cannot be disclosed to insurers, employers or
others regulated by state insurance laws.

In fact, this proposal could prove worthless in thousands of cases because about
60 percent of insured workers are employed by major corporations that
self-insure and, thus, are exempted from state insurance laws.

The president and his Health and Human Services chief, Donna Shalala, did not go
out of their way to talk about genetic-based bias in the workplace. The
president focused the bulk of his comments on the medical insurance angle,
saying, "Americans should never have to choose between saving their health
insurance and taking a test that could save their lives."

Secretary Shalala, too, zeroed in on insurers by calling attention to the
percentage of people in families denied health insurance due to genetic
disorders. Under the Clinton proposal, she would be given authority to define
other areas, including medical research, where some genetic information could be
shared. She also should make certain that the Clinton proposal specifically
forbids all employers, whether regulated by state insurance laws or not, to
collect genetic data on workers.

As Secretary Shalala notes, this technology offers "great promise and ethical
dilemmas." Public confidence will depend on the government's assurances that the
promise of this new medical frontier will not be overshadowed by the ethical
problems.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              220 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           December 16, 1997 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

The genetics generation;
Primary Education - Cloning in class

BYLINE: Margaret Cook

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 791 words


WHEN British scientists announced in February that they had successfully cloned
a sheep using DNA from an adult animal, the news received widespread publicity.

But the arrival of Dolly, as they named her, also raised many ethical and legal
issues. Was it the start of a new breed of animal or even the first step in
cloning humans? Would people be cloned without their knowledge? How would the
new technology be regulated and controlled?

Dr MaryAnne Aitken, a former research scientist in molecular biology, works in
community education and outreach with the Murdoch Institute for Research into
Birth Defects. The institute, based at the Royal Children's Hospital, is a World
Health Organisation reference centre for human genetics and a training centre
for clinical geneticists.

Part of Dr Aitken's job involves visiting schools to talk about genetics (or the
study of genes and chromosomes).

Genetics is usually not taught until year 10, mainly in biology classes, says Dr
Aitken. But she believes it is important that even primary children understand
the applications - and the implications - of the new technology and discoveries.
They are the generation which, in 20 or so years, will be confronted with the
issues of genetic testing, genetic engineering and even genetic discrimination,
she says.

As adults, they may be required to have a genetic test for certain disorders or
conditions before getting health insurance or a job. Or they will have to decide
whether to be tested before having a baby. If they have a genetic disorder, they
may have to decide whether to have gene therapy.

"Genetically engineered food and drugs are now available, and will become
increasingly available," says Dr Aitken. "People must have the education to be
able to understand these new developments . . . It's imperative we get the
information to children, so that it's not frightening and so they can make
informed choices."

But not all teachers have the knowledge - or the time - to teach genetics, says
Dr Aitken.

She begins each class, regardless of the level, with an explanation about cells
and genes. Each cell in our body has between 50,000 and 100,000 genes. The genes
run along a DNA molecule, which winds up tightly into a chromosome. She compares
these chromosomes to an instruction manual that tells our cells what to do and
makes us what we are.

Dr Aitken had taught at tertiary level and admits she was apprehensive when she
visited her first school. But students respond very well, she says, and are
fascinated by the concepts and the ethical issues associated with genetics.

In one primary school, Dr Aitken was asked what was God's genetic background.

Secondary students tend to be very idealistic - but also capable of coming up
with some amazing scenarios. They have asked her whether it is possible to
engineer races of people or "produce truckloads of Elle McPherson". She has also
been asked: if your child needed a bone marrow transplant, can you clone a child
that would be an exact match?

Dr Aitken tries to present the information in an ethical, rather than a
sensationalist, manner and to encourage students to talk through the issues.

She says there is a great deal of misunderstanding about genetics. Some people
confuse it with eugenics and believe it is about "weeding out inappropriate
characters and selecting and enhancing the population".

Also, the technology is expanding so rapidly that even people who studied
biological sciences 20 or even 10 years ago may be out of date. For example, in
the mid 1980s, tests were only available for a small number of genetic
disorders; now, there are tests for several thousand, she says.

Also, the Human Genome Project, which involves collaborative centres around the
world, is documenting the code for all genetic information in individuals. "The
project is to the year 2000 what man walking on the moon was in the 1960s," says
Dr Aitken. Every human gene will be documented by 2005, although it will take
more time before scientists know what each one does in the body.

A huge breakthrough has been the increased testing for genetic conditions and
disorders, she says. "It's been an incredible relief for families who knew they
had a chance of getting, say, Huntington Disease. Before some people didn't know
if they would get it - but they lived their lives as if they were going to."

Parents, too, are relieved to learn they "didn't do something wrong" if a child
is born with a genetic disorder.

The Murdoch Institute will employ a second education officer next year. Dr
Aitken visits about two schools each week, talking to individual classes or
large groups. She takes a flexible approach, concentrating on, for example,
genetic disorders or genetic technology, depending on the teachers' needs.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dolly's dilemma: the cloning of Dolly the sheep has raised many
ethical questions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1997 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 12, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Blue Shield of California Named One of World's Most Ethical Companies for the
Second Straight Year

LENGTH: 408  words


New Delhi, March 12 -- Blue Shield of California has been recognized by the
Ethisphere Institute as one of the 2013 World's Most Ethical Companies for the
second year in a row. The Ethisphere Institute is a leading international
organization dedicated to the creation, advancement and sharing of best
practices in business ethics, governance, anti-corruption and sustainability.



"This award is a testament to the strength of our compliance and ethics program,
our commitment to corporate social responsibility, and the dedication of our
more than 5,000 employees," said Paul Markovich, Blue Shield President and CEO.
"We're proud to be recognized for our ethical business practices as we work to
fulfill our mission to provide all Californians with access to high-quality
health care at an affordable price."

This is the seventh year that Ethisphere has published its World's Most Ethical
Companies rankings. Ethisphere reviewed a record number of nominations from
companies in more than 100 countries and 36 industries, utilizing its propriety
methodology and in-depth research to name the companies that surpassed their
industry peers to earn inclusion on this year's World's Most Ethical Companies
list.

"We are excited to see the 2013 World's Most Ethical Companies take these
leadership positions, and embrace the correlation between ethical behavior and
improved financial performance," said Alex Brigham, Executive Director of
Ethisphere.

Blue Shield's Corporate Compliance program reinforces a culture of ethical
behavior and integrity as the cornerstone value. "We are honored to receive this
prestigious award and view it as a reflection of the company's and our
employees' foundational commitment to conducting business with integrity," said
K.C. Turan, Blue Shield's Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer.

Blue Shield of California also has a formal corporate social responsibility
program that promotes social, economic and environmental sustainability, as well
as charitable and volunteer activities. The company contributes approximately
$30 million annually to the Blue Shield of California Foundation. Additionally,
since 2010, Blue Shield of California has fulfilled a pledge to return net
income that exceeds two percent of revenue to its customers and the community.

For more about Ethisphere, the World's Most Ethical ranking methodology and the
complete list of the 2013 World's Most Ethical Companies, visit
http://www.ethisphere.com/wme.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

OUR MEDICAL GIANTS NEED TO FEEL OUR STING;
PERHAPS LEGISLATORS CAN CONVINCE THEM TO PUT PATIENTS AHEAD OF THEIR
(NON)PROFITS

BYLINE: Sally Kalson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. F-3

LENGTH: 976 words


Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition. Maybe we're getting somewhere now.

A dozen legislators from southwestern Pennsylvania said last week they want UPMC
and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield to live up to their responsibilities and put
the community's health ahead of their own corporate agendas.

The bipartisan group of lawmakers held a Downtown news conference on Thursday
calling on the two "nonprofit" health care giants to meet with them to work
toward an agreement. They also said they will hold hearings to seek legislative
remedies to the impasse.

Presumably, the legislators have been getting an earful from constituents who
stand to lose access to UPMC doctors and hospitals unless the two entities renew
the contract that expires next year.

"No health care organization should have the power to limit access to millions
of people to what we consider public assets," said Republican Mike Turzai, the
House Majority Leader.

"This public dispute is causing great concern," said House Democratic Leader
Frank Dermody. "We cannot shut the door on people's access to doctors or
hospitals. This fight needs to end."

Dan Frankel, House Democratic Caucus chairman, added: "I read in the newspaper
this morning that UPMC says the ethical and socially responsible action is to
inform people that they refuse to negotiate with Highmark. With all due respect,
that's wrong. The truly ethical and socially responsible action for
institutions, which have relied on community goodwill as well as significant
community economic support for their growth, is to work together toward an
agreement that puts patients first."

UPMC is adamant that a new deal is out of the question because Highmark is now a
direct competitor, having arranged to acquire the ailing West Penn/Allegheny
Health System. It is insisting that patients must switch to a non-Highmark
insurer to remain in the UPMC network once the contract expires -- as if doing
so were as easy as changing dance partners.

This is not sitting well with employers, whose workers don't want their medical
arrangements to be upended. Patients are angry that UPMC is threatening them.
Doctors are afraid they will lose patients and that a massive transfer of
medical records would invite chaos. Even some donors whose family names are on
UPMC facilities have protested that their contributions were made to benefit the
community at large, not UPMC's corporate aspirations.

To be sure, there are plenty of reasons to excoriate Highmark, the region's
largest insurer by far -- but not for its rescue of WPAHS, which is the only
thing stopping UPMC from total control of the market. The problem is how it got
the money to make that investment -- by price-gouging subscribers.

Against all reason, this "nonprofit" insurer has been allowed to pile up a $3.7
billion surplus. Rather than use some of those funds to reduce premiums and make
health care more affordable, Highmark continues to bleed us all by jacking up
its rates to ever more unconscionable levels.

The latest example: The company is applying to raise rates for its "Special
Care" health insurance, the policy of last resort for low-income Pennsylvanians
since the state cut off its low-cost adultBasic coverage in February. The hike
would cost roughly $150 a year more for those who already are hanging on by
their fingernails.

Just as Gov. Tom Corbett resisted tapping the state's surplus to ease the pain
of his draconian budget cuts, Highmark refuses to tap its surplus to help the
working poor cushion the twin blows of rising health costs and a bad economy.

In addition, and despite its surfeit of cash, the company has been outsourcing
local jobs to cheap offshore labor. And, according to UPMC, Highmark has been
squeezing UPMC physicians by low-balling their reimbursement rates.

UPMC rightly notes that Highmark's mind-boggling surplus, largely wrung out of
subscribers using its doctors and hospitals, has allowed the insurer to buy
another hospital system -- or what remains of it. It's easy to see why UPMC
leaders would not like that arrangement. Then again, Highmark couldn't have
liked it when UPMC started its own health insurance plan. And in any case, the
hospital system has no business making patients into collateral damage in this
grudge match.

Somehow, the stalemate has to be broken. When lawmakers hold their hearings to
look for "legislative solutions," here's one that should be on the table: If
these companies cannot act in good faith and the public interest, they should be
stripped of their nonprofit status and start paying taxes like the other
profit-making corporations in this town. That would get their attention.

The hearings would be an excellent venue for asking Highmark President Ken
Melani how he justifies the company's nonprofit status while sitting on that
multi-billion-dollar pot of gold, and why the insurer isn't using it to lower
its rates.

It would also be the perfect opportunity to ask UPMC President Jeffrey Romoff
how his apparent need to obliterate any competition comports with his obligation
to act in the community's best interest.

I'd also love to hear them both answer this one: Why should this region be held
hostage to your personal animosity for each other?

It remains to be seen what lawmakers can do about this untenable situation, but
putting the companies' leaders on the hot seat would be a good start. Of course,
Messrs. Melani and Romoff could avoid this fate by reaching an agreement, but
chances are they think they're untouchable.

That's an occupational hazard for the top honchos who are so focused on empire
building, buzzing around on corporate jets and looking down on the rest of us
from the penthouse suite. After a while they can't hear the little ants on the
ground who, on closer examination, turn out to be people.

Our lawmakers need to show them that some ants have more sting than others.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Sally Kalson is a staff writer and columnist for the Post-Gazette
(skalson@post-gazette.com, 412 263-1610)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              223 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               SUNDAY MAIL (QLD)

                             April 20, 1986 Sunday

LIB. CLAIMS GOVT 'WAR' ON DOCTORS

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: LANDERS D

LENGTH: 353 words


Lib. claims Govt "war' on doctors By DAVID LANDERS A survey of Brisbane doctors
has revealed that some are withholding medical treatment from their patients for
fear of being accused of overservicing and medifraud.

The Liberal MHR for Moreton, Mr Cameron, surveyed 120 doctors in 26 suburbs on
Brisbane's southside and found that 37 percent consciously had reduced the
number of consultations with certain patients below what they believed was
necessary.

He claimed that, while this was going on, some big medical entrepreneurs were
ripping off millions from Medicare.

Mr Cameron said his survey also revealed 15.5 percent of the doctors had been or
were under surveillance or investigation by the Health Insurance Commission and
28.5 percent suspected they might have been.

He accused the Federal Government of conducting a ""guerrilla war" against the
95 percent of general practitioners who were honest and ethical.

Mr Cameron claimed doctors were in fear of bringing the wrath of the Federal
Government on their heads.

He said he suspected the people who were suffering from this ""heavy-handed"
approach in checking Medicare fraud were the aged.

""They are bearing the brunt of this," he said.

He quoted from a Department of Veterans' Affairs letter to nursing homes: ""The
doctor has to resist pressure from patients and other persons to visit more than
is medically necessary."

Mr Cameron said one doctor complained investigators had door-knocked his
patients, but later had refused to advise them that they found he was practising
ethically.

""While the Government is hounding the honest and ethical local GPs, it has
failed to act aginst some of the large entrepreneurial medical practices which,
by sophisticated techniques, are ripping off Medicare to the tune of in excess
$100 million," Mr Cameron said.

He said he was not belittling the crackdown on real fraud, but said he had
written to the federal Health Minister, Dr Blewett, and asked him to adopt a
fairer approach to the investigation of doctors to ensure people were not put at
risk and reputations were not besmirched.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SML

                   Copyright 1986 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              224 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Japan Times

                           February 9, 2008, Saturday

Consensus on surrogate birth

LENGTH: 798 words


A committee of the Science Council of Japan has made public a draft report that
calls for enacting a law to ban surrogate births in general. Since surrogate
births include ethical, legal and medical problems, medical service people,
experts in ethical problems, health authorities and lawmakers should present
these problems in a comprehensive manner so that a public consensus can be built
on the issue.

In doing so, it will be particularly important to protect children born through
surrogate births from discrimination and a number of possible social
inconveniences. Yet, if too much time is spent on building the consensus, some
women who cannot become pregnant and their husbands will likely seek help from
surrogate mothers anyway.

The health ministry and the Justice Ministry had asked the council, an
independent body under the prime minister, to compile the report. A wide range
of people including medical doctors, biologists and legal experts joined the
discussions.

In 2001, a maternity doctor in Nagano Prefecture announced a surrogate birth -
the first in Japan. This prompted a health ministry committee to release a
report in April 2003 calling for a total ban on surrogate births, with
penalties.

Although the government tried to submit a bill based on the report to the Diet,
it gave up because of strong opposition from within the ruling parties. The
Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology did issue a guideline prohibiting its
members from assisting in surrogate births.

Under the law proposed by the council, doctors involved in surrogate births
would be deprived of public health insurance authorization even if they didn't
profit from the procedure.

While opposing surrogate births in general, the council report stresses that
surrogate births do not harm people as crimes do. Only when profit-making is
involved would penalties be imposed on people who have requested surrogate
births, and on doctors and mediators. Surrogate mothers themselves would not be
subject to a penalty.

The report says a child of a surrogate birth should be registered as a child of
the surrogate mother and then adopted by the couple who have sought a baby by
surrogate birth.

The report apparently cannot ignore current social trends tolerant of surrogate
births and diversified opinions within the council. It proposed that surrogate
births be allowed on a trial basis under strict state supervision, with data
collected on surrogate mothers and children born this way. The proposal involves
an ethical problem of whether it is appropriate for the state to be involved in
surrogate births to the extent of keeping records on surrogate mothers and their
children.

The proposal appears to be influenced at least by a poll conducted by the health
ministry in February and March 2007. It showed that a majority - 54 percent of
those polled - accepted surrogate births against 16 percent who were against it.
In a previous poll in 2003, 42.5 percent accepted surrogate births.

The Nagano maternity doctor announced at the end of January that he had recently
assisted in surrogate births for three married couples. Two surrogate mothers
gave birth to one child each and the third is pregnant. The new births have
increased to nine the number of children born through surrogate births assisted
by the doctor. He also said that a 60-year-old unmarried woman had received a
fertilized egg in the United States and given birth to a child in his clinic.

It is also believed that more than 50 Japanese married couples relied on
surrogate mothers in the U.S. to have children. One such couple is TV
personality Ms. Aki Mukai and her husband. The couple tried to register twins
born of a surrogate mother as their children. Although the Tokyo High Court
sided with the couple, the Supreme Court in 2007 ruled that the surrogate mother
should be registered as the twins' real mother.

Surrogate birth involves an ethical question of whether it is right for people
to use other women as a means of producing a child. There are also problems such
as medical risks that surrogate mothers may face, psychological pains they may
suffer when obliged to give up children by prior agreement, whether couples who
have asked for surrogate births will readily accept children who happen to be
born with physical or mental defects, and psychological problems that children
born of surrogate mothers may experience after learning about their birth.

On the other hand, it can be argued that women who cannot become pregnant should
not be denied the right to pursue happiness in the form of having children
through surrogate births. It is indispensable that people clearly discern the
problems and issues related to surrogate births in discussing whether such
births should be accepted.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2008 The Japan Times Ltd.


                              225 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Topeka Capital-Journal (Kansas)

                           December 1, 2012 Saturday

GOP senator: Brownback, party lost 'moral compass'

BYLINE: Tim Carpenter.

THE CAPITAL-JOURNAL

LENGTH: 859 words


Outgoing Sen. Dick Kelsey is convinced policy reform in the 2013 Legislature
will be dictated by the iron hand of GOP Gov. Sam Brownback and a Republican
Party apparatus that lost its "moral" footing during ugly primary and general
election campaigns.

Kelsey, a Goddard conservative who lost to a Republican challenger financed
largely by the Kansas Chamber's political action committee, said in an interview
that Republican power brokers led by Brownback were operating by "absolute fear
and intimidation and threats."

"The fact is we have an administration that operates without a moral compass,"
he said. "That's very sad. They will say and do anything to achieve their goals.
I've talked to people who have been around here 35, 40 years, and nobody has
seen anything like it."

He said state employees are reluctant to raise questions about flaws in
government programs out of fear they would be fired. Lobbyists were ordered not
to contribute to certain Republicans and Democrats, he said.

A spokeswoman for the governor declined to comment Friday about Kelsey's
critique.

Kelsey, an eight-year veteran of the Legislature, openly challenged Brownback's
proposals on tax and Medicaid reform in the 2012 session.

He was the rare conservative Republican ousted this election cycle. He said at
least $150,000 was invested by his rivals in radio ads and direct mailing to
suggest - falsely - he supported federal health insurance reform touted by
Democratic President Barack Obama.

"Tying me to Obamacare? How idiotic. That was absolutely asinine. But they did,"
Kelsey said.

The GOP machinery used the same issue and a vote on a statewide sales tax
increase to seek defeat of 10 moderate GOP senators who worked with Democrats to
stall portions of the governor's agenda. Eight of those Republican moderates
lost primary races in August.

In terms of the Kansas Republican Party, Kelsey said he devoted 20 years to help
build an anti-abortion political organization that in a single election season
cast aside its "ethical or moral foundation" to create a one-dimensional body
compliant with the governor's wishes.

"That's very sad because it's also the group of people who wave the Christian
flag more than anybody has ever done in state government," Kelsey said. "Yet,
they did not operate with any kind of truthfulness or honesty."

Clay Barker, executive director of the state GOP organization, said he didn't
concur with Kelsey's analysis.

"I'd disagree with his assertion that the party has lost its moral or ethical
compass," Barker said. "Politics is a contact sport. Everybody knows the rules
when they get in."

Five dozen new senators and representatives will be in the Capitol on Monday as
members of the 2013 Legislature vote on selection of partisan leaders for the
upcoming session. Opinions about the direction of solid Republican majorities in
the House and Senate differ.

Barker said introduction of at least 50 new House members and more than a dozen
freshmen in the Senate would create uncertainty.

"Some of the new people are going to come in and discover just how complicated
legislating is," he said. "It's easy to talk about your conservative principles,
if you are a Republican, but when two of your principles collide what are you
going to do?"

Joan Wagnon, executive director of the Kansas Democratic Party, said such issues
as abortion and immigration would take a back seat to debate about a projected
budget shortfall driven by Brownback's decision to dramatically reduce state
income taxes next year.

"The budget scenario is probably worse than I've seen in all the years I've been
watching politics," she said. "The front burner is so complicated that there's
not going to be room for a lot of extraneous stuff unless it's very small and
very uncomplicated."

The governor maintains his supply-side economic strategy will reduce taxes,
stimulate job growth and result in higher tax returns in the future. However,
there is agreement the state must reduce expenditures to balance the upcoming,
fiscal year 2014 budget.

House Speaker Mike O'Neal, the Hutchinson Republican who didn't seek re-election
to take over as president of the Kansas Chamber, said pundits who think
Brownback can walk all over the Legislature were mistaken.

"It's an oversimplification to assume that anything the governor proposes, the
House or Senate is going to automatically stand up and salute," O'Neal said.

He said renewal of Brownback's strategy to extend the 1-cent increase in the
statewide sales tax, due to drop by 0.6 of a percent in July, would be resisted
by many legislators. Lawmakers rejected the idea in 2012, but the governor may
renew the appeal at the outset of the 2013 session in January.

"He and I have talked informally about that," O'Neal said. "I've let him know
that I think that's a very hard sell."

Senate Minority Leader Anthony Hensley, D-Topeka, said demise of the moderate
Senate leadership, including Senate President Steve Morris, would alter the
landscape for Democrats.

"The moderate coalition is basically gone," Hensley said. "As a result of that,
we're going to be ever-vigilant to present the other side on a number of
different issues."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The Topeka Capital-Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               November 23, 2009

AMA meeting: "Don't ask, don't tell" said to hurt patient care; repeal urged

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, amednews staff. Posted Nov. 23, 2009.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 21 Vol. 52 No. 48

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: Houston



HIGHLIGHT: The House of Delegates also said a lack of marriage rights
contributes to health care disparities that affect gay families.


 The American Medical Association came out in favor of ending the "don't ask,
don't tell" law that requires gays in the military to hide their sexual
orientation from their physicians and others. Delegates to the AMA Interim
Meeting said the policy threatens the physician-patient relationship and
compromises the medical care of gay patients in the military.

The military reserves the power to inspect service members' medical records for
combat readiness purposes. So any mention of their sexual orientation could
result in discharge under the federal law governing the military's policy on
gays, known as "don't ask, don't tell."

The law puts gays in the military and their physicians in an untenable
situation, said Wisconsin Medical Society delegate Paul A. Wertsch, MD, who
brought the issue before the house. "If you can't trust your doctor to tell the
truth, you're not going to tell the truth," said Dr. Wertsch, whose son is gay.
"If a doctor feels that by writing down the truth, he can get you in trouble,
that's a bad situation."

The "don't ask, don't tell" law is "hurting people, it's making doctors lie,
it's having patients not get proper care and it's hurting the military," said
Dr. Wertsch, a family physician.

His original resolution asked the AMA to lobby the armed forces to change policy
to protect the confidentiality of any disclosures regarding sexual orientation.
But military physicians testified in reference committee that federal law
governed the matter and the law is what needs to change. The committee
strengthened the resolution to call for a complete repeal of the "don't ask,
don't tell" law, and the house adopted it without debate.

"The AMA took the horse by the reins in doing what needed to be done to call for
the repeal of something that creates such disparities and such health care
risks," said Jennifer Chaffin, MD, a San Ramon, Calif., forensic psychiatrist
who chairs the AMA Advisory Committee on Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender
Issues. Dr. Wertsch also serves on the committee.

Alexander Nicholson, executive director of Servicemembers United, which
represents gays actively serving in the military and veterans, testified before
the AMA reference committee. "This is yet another nail in the coffin of the
flawed and outdated 'don't ask, don't tell' law," he said later, "It should send
a strong message to those who continue to blindly claim that this policy works."

A July 2008 Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 75% of Americans back
allowing gays to openly serve in the military.

After months of inaction and growing complaints from gay advocacy groups,
President Barack Obama in October reaffirmed his campaign pledge to sign
legislation allowing gays in the military to reveal their sexual orientation.

"President Obama has been clear ... that he is committed to repeal the 'don't
ask, don't tell' policy," said Lt. Col. Jonathan Withington, a Dept. of Defense
spokesman. "He has also been clear that he is committed to doing it in a way
that is least disruptive to our troops, especially given that they have been
simultaneously waging two wars for six years now."

Repeal of "don't ask, don't tell" is likely to be part of next year's Defense
Dept. authorization bill, according to Rep. Barney Frank (D, Mass.), who is one
of three openly gay members of Congress.

Marriage disparities

A separate AMA Council on Science and Public Health report found that gay
families face a host of health disparities, such as unequal access to health
insurance benefits, due to laws barring them from marriage.

"Exclusion from civil marriage contributes to health care disparities affecting
same-sex households," said the council's report recommendation, which the house
adopted.

The AMA's new policy -- also adopted without house debate -- commits the
organization to working to reduce health disparities in gay families and
supporting "measures providing same-sex households with the same rights and
privileges to health care, health insurance, and survivor benefits, as afforded
opposite-sex households."

The policy does not call for repealing the Defense of Marriage Act -- which
denies federal benefits to same-sex partners -- or for backing state-level
attempts to give gays access to civil unions or legal marriage.

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: Industry funding of continuing medical education and CME faculty with
financial conflicts may inappropriately influence educational content.

Proposed action: Develop ethical guidance advising that commercial support
should be avoided when possible. Lay out principles for how to minimize
financial conflicts and reduce the potential for bias. [Referred]

Issue: Kidney transplant chains have become more prevalent in recent years,
raising questions about their propriety.

Proposed action: Examine the scientific feasibility and ethical implications of
these new practices. [Adopted]

Issue: Some medical students and doctors post unprofessional content online.

Proposed action: Write ethical standards for physician professionalism online
and incorporate them into the modernized AMA Code of Medical Ethics. [Adopted]

Issue: Illegal immigrants sometimes are discharged from American hospitals and
repatriated to their home countries, where they get little or no medical care.

Proposed action: Develop ethical guidance advising doctors to refuse to sign
discharge orders that would repatriate such patients involuntarily. [Referred]

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday

Insurers Pay Doctors To Push Generic Drugs

BYLINE: E.B. SOLOMONT -, Staff Reporter of the Sun

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words


Two New York health insurance companies are rewarding doctors with cash
incentives for prescribing generic drugs.

The companies, Excellus Blue Cross Blue Shield of Rochester, N.Y., and
Independent Health, based in Buffalo, are offering higher compensation to
doctors who increase their rates of prescribing generics instead of more
expensive brand-name medications. The companies say the programs were designed
to control the escalating cost of pharmaceuticals and to pass on savings to the
patients.

Doctors say that generics sometimes can be safely substituted for brand-name
drugs. But some of them also are skeptical of the payments from insurers, saying
they could raise ethical questions and even jeopardize the safety of some
patients.

"By offering incentives to prescribe generics, there's at least the appearance
for an ethical conflict, steering toward the cheaper medication," an Albany
cardiologist, Dr. Mikhail Torosoff, said. "That's upsetting."

Insurers defend the practice as a way to rein in costs.

"What we're focusing on here is how do we make health insurance more affordable,
and one way of doing that is to promote more cost-effective health care
treatments," the senior vice president of the New York Health Plan Association,
Leslie Moran, said.

She dismissed the notion that physicians are being coerced. "Everyone likes to
talk about the availability and accessibility of health care," she said, "but
you can't expand access if its not affordable. A key component of affordability
are costs like prescription costs."

Similar programs elsewhere in the country have come under fire. In Michigan,
lawmakers and physician groups opposed an incentive program launched by a
subsidiary of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, Blue Care Network, which ran a
three-month program that paid doctors $100 for each patient who switched to a
generic cholesterol-lowering medication from a brand-name drug.

In response to the backlash, the American Medical Association posted a position
statement on its Web site that reads: "A physician accepting payment from an
insurer in exchange for moving a patient from a brand name to a generic drug
could potentially face both criminal and civil liability exposure under the
federal antikickback statute."

Generic drugs that are approved by the Food and Drug Administration must be the
"bioequivalent" to their brand-name counterparts, meaning their active
ingredients must be the same, drug experts said.

But some doctors said they are wary about switching the drug regimens of
patients who are doing well. Prescribing a different drug within the same class
could harm a patient, some said.

"The more serious the drug, the more concerned I am about forced substitution,"
an associate professor at NYU School of Medicine, Dr. Marc Siegel, said.

In New York, the incentive programs offer doctors increased reimbursement if
they change their prescribing habits. Under Independent Health's program,
doctors who increase the rate at which they prescribe generics receive a cash
reward based on their patient base. A physician who increases their rate to 70%
from 40%, for example, would receive fifty cents each month for each Independent
Health member whom they treat.

Under the Excellus plan, doctors who increase their ratio of generic drug
prescriptions to brand-name ones by 5% receive higher reimbursement for patient
office visits. The company declined to provide further details on how much
doctors are paid, citing proprietary reasons, but officials said the overall
goal of the program is to encourage patients and physicians to consider
generics.

Officials from Independent Health said their program seeks to educate patients,
but they are also rewarding doctors for doing the "extra work" associated with
discussing generics with their patients. "Like it or not, physicians are in a
business," the company's vice president of pharmacy services, John Rodgers,
said.

Other health insurance companies denied plans to launch similar programs. But
doctors said a number of companies issue "report cards" that include a tally of
the prescriptions that physicians write.

At least one company, Cigna, said it issues quarterly reports to physicians as
part of a "Save with Generics" program, which seeks to promote the use of
generics by informing patients and doctors how much money they could have saved
by avoiding costly brand-name drugs.

"The only purpose is to inform physicians of opportunities to help their
patients save money on their prescription medications," the director of public
relations for Cigna, Lindsay Shearer, wrote in an e-mail message.

Physicians said the letters and faxes they routinely receive from insurers,
which inform them when they could have saved their patients money, amount to
unwanted pressure to choose generics. Other tactics used by insurance companies
to reduce costs include requiring patients to obtain prior authorization for
more expensive drugs, drawing up "preferred" lists of medications, and placing
medicines in tiers based on cost and requiring patients to pay more for certain
drugs.

"This clearly puts the burden on the doctors to 'fall in line' with the
prescribing wishes of the companies," a Manhattan cardiologist, Dr. Adam
Deutsch, said.

Dr. Deutsch said most of the time there is no medical reason why a generic
cannot be substituted for a brand-name drug. "In all honesty, there's like seven
cholesterol drugs on the market. Does it matter? No, it doesn't," he said. "The
key is interference. Why is this multi-billion dollar company writing me a
letter about my relationship with my patient? To me, it's an ethical issue, not
a clinical one."

In recent years, doctors have been scrutinized for accepting drug samples and
free lunches from pharmaceutical companies. Both practices are common, and
doctors interviewed for this article said they have accepted such gifts. But
they distinguished accepting drug samples and lunches from cash incentives by
describing the cash incentives as bribes.

Dr. Torosoff, the Albany cardiologist, said he has been paid to speak at events
sponsored by drug companies. He declined to say how much he was compensated, but
he said the practice is different from accepting a cash incentive from an
insurance company because as a lecturer he is performing a service and because
he only lectures on FDA-approved drugs and their intended uses.

Dr. Torosoff said pharmaceutical companies have also funded research at the
hospital where he works, Albany Medical Center, but he defended such grants by
saying he did not personally benefit from them. Regarding the free lunches he
has accepted from drug companies in the past, he described the meals as an
"advertising" opportunity for pharmaceutical companies. "It's laughable to think
I will prescribe something that is harmful to my patients because I got a
five-dollar lunch," he said.

Officials from the state's medical society said their position is clear
regarding financial incentives given to doctors who prescribe generics: A
doctor's primary focus should be on their patient's welfare. "I don't criticize
the insurance companies for wanting to contain costs, that's a laudable goal,"
the executive vice president of the Medical Society of the State of New York,
Rick Abrams, said. But he said when conversion is done solely for purposes of
cost and not quality, "then we have a severe problem with a program like that."

At least one New York lawmaker, a state senator of the Bronx, Jeff Klein, is
proposing legislation that would require all medically necessary prescriptions
to be covered by insurance companies. In May, Mr. Klein's office published a
report that identified widespread restrictions placed on drug coverage by 19
health maintenance organizations in New York. Of the drugs surveyed, Lipitor,
which is used to lower cholesterol, and Singulair, a medication for asthmatics,
were the most restricted. Eight companies restricted Lipitor's use, and 11
companies limited Singulair's use.

Mr. Klein said restrictions do not benefit consumers, particularly those who
take "single-source" medications, or drugs without a generic equivalent.
"They're making it difficult for people to get the drugs they need," Mr. Klein
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 16, 1990, Tuesday, Final Edition

AMA Agonizes Over a Patient's 'Rights'

BYLINE: Victor Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HEALTH; PAGE Z15

LENGTH: 881 words


"AMA ISSUES PATIENT 'BILL OF RIGHTS' AT 1989 INTERIM MEETING"

So read the headline on an American Medical Association news release late last
year.

It didn't happen.

The news release had inspired a nationally distributed Associated Press story
saying, "Patients have a right to basic health care from attentive, courteous
doctors who tell them their choices for treatment, according to the AMA's first
'Patient Bill of Rights.' "

But the headline on the AMA news release was wrong. The AMA had not issued such
a document. It had only been approved by the AMA's top ethical body, its Council
on Ethical and Judicial Affairs, to be submitted to the AMA House of Delegates
at its annual interim meeting in Honolulu in December.

There, the membership -- a fiercely independent and democratic body consisting
of delegates elected by all the states' medical societies -- sent the Patient
Bill of Rights to the AMA Board of Trustees for more study, and a new version in
June.

The main concern was the sentence that said: "The patient has the right to
essential health care."

Actually, most if not all the delegates agreed that every American has a right
to adequate medical care financed by someone: employer, government, charity or
the patient. The sticking points were two:

By endorsing such a "right," the doctors did not want to seem to be endorsing a
government-paid national health plan for everyone.

They wanted to maintain the individual doctor's freedom to choose or reject
individual patients (except in emergencies), and they didn't want to be
threatened by some new kind of liability or malpractice suit if they refused a
patient.

Whether or not one agrees with these objections, they are at least arguable,
given the AMA's political views.

But the delegates' action recalls an ugly day in which many AMA members argued
that medical care was not a "right" but a "privilege" for Americans.

That was a point of view with which sick Americans might not agree.

Though the concept of everyone's right to medical care had been discussed
intermittently for years, the issue came to a head in 1967. Congress had just
enacted Medicare, which the AMA and most doctors opposed.

Then-AMA President Milford O. Rouse, a spare and caustic Houston
gastroenterologist, announced at the AMA's June 1967 meeting that he considered
medical care not a right but a privilege, and, furthermore, he felt under no
obligation to treat Medicare patients.

He won the AMA no new friends. Prompted by disagreement and some dis- gust,
within its own ranks, the AMA House of Delegates in 1969 passed a resolution
saying it was every American's "basic right to have available to him adequate
health care," and "the medical profession should endeavor to make good medical
care available to every person."

That has been the AMA's official position since. But doctors had never had an
official AMA statement they might post on their waiting room walls, say, to make
it clear they had their patients' interests at heart.

Over a period of a year, therefore, the AMA's council on ethics developed its
proposal. Its authors said it was merely an affirmation of the inherent
relationship between physician and patient. They said it needed to be repeated
now only to let patients know that physicians still felt this way about their
patients, and to encourage patients to maintain their trust in their physicians.
The document "further demonstrates the role of the physician as a patient
advocate," said Richard J. McMurray, the ethics council's chairman.

At the AMA meeting, according to American Medical News, the AMA's own newspaper,
various delegates:

Objected to an ethics council commentary -- a part of the proposed document --
saying they should "schedule their appointments . . . in a way that respects the
value of the patient's time."

Some said this might not leave them free to respond to emergencies.

And, most of all, said adoption of the document as worded would invite further
government regulation of medicine. "If you grant this premise, that medical care
is a right, then the state has the obligation to enforce that right," argued
Louisiana delegate Donald Palmisano, a physician and lawyer.

"If this is interpreted as the [our] official code of ethics and you violate it,
then your license is subject to revocation," said Pennsylvania delegate James
Donaldson.

A committee of the delegates suggested jettisoning the term "the patient has the
right to essential health care" and instead saying, "the patient should have
access to essential health care."

The delegates were not satisfied and told their trustees to come back with new
wording in June.

"Doctors have learned they have to treat patients with every degree of respect,
the way they would want to be treated," Nancy Dickey, a Texas family
practitioner and AMA trustee, said last week.

"Financing care for everyone is one of the AMA's top [legislative] priorities.
We agree, care is a right, but, again, it comes down to the wording. I think you
will see us come back in June and pass a strong bill of rights."

That could help patients and help the AMA, too.

But I don't think it will be much of a Bill of Rights unless it says that
whether or not I can afford it, I have a right to decent care.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, JAMES YANG FOR TWP

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1990 The Washington Post


                              229 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            March 10, 2012 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1888 words


<b>JUDGE ETHICS AT BALLOT BOX</b>

On possible ethical lapses and Spokane Valley: Ethical dilemmas are a constant
of public life. When the Library Board approached the city of Spokane Valley for
a partnership, I knew this one-time opportunity for economic development at
U-City would come not only with necessary scrutiny, but also with more than a
few hints of cronyism. To me, the community benefit overrides this commentary.

On "The Great Barbed-Wire Conspiracy": Only recently did perhaps thousands of us
find we were quietly removed from compliance by ordinances of the planning
department in a language cleanup of the sign code. Valuable commercial as well
as residential acreages were rendered illegal, subject to fines, not even
grandfathered.

No ethical lapse here, removing this ill-advised government overreach affecting
the income base of the city and forcing economic hardship on ordinary citizens.

Questions: Who then becomes the moral arbiter of ethical behavior? Perhaps a
political opponent with an agenda contrary to the wishes of the electorate? Is
it a panel with secret ties to special interests never publicly revealed? It
happened.

Thus, for me, the process begins with the citizens who demand accountability
through the ballot box, not the unelected who are accountable to no one.

<b>Dean Grafos</b>

<i>Spokane Valley councilman

Spokane Valley</i>

<b>A HEALTH CARE TRAGEDY</b>

This is to applaud Jaydra Cope and the article that was printed in The
Spokesman-Review on Feb. 21 on behalf of her brother, who passed away because he
was denied help. He made too much. When our elected officials get free medical,
what's wrong with this picture?

I have a daughter who lost her medical coverage for the same reason. She was $1
over the government standard. She has hepatitis C and cirrhosis of the liver and
is in pain constantly. Lobbyists for the state's largest insurance companies
testified against the bill, to be not even discussed.

As Cope says, people are dying needlessly because Republicans and Democrats
won't change this law.

<b>Dorothy Payne</b>

<i>Spokane Valley</i>

<b>LIMBAUGH'S SEXISM ISN'T FUNNY</b>

Rush Limbaugh called Sandra Fluke a slut and a prostitute and he thinks it's
funny? It's nothing but downright viciousness toward women who need protection
from pregnancy, not to mention the other uses for the birth control pill! This
world would not be the same without it.

Sandra would not be able to finish law school and make something of herself if
she had children before she could graduate. Women should be able to enjoy
intimacy with their partners without having to worry about an unplanned
pregnancy.

If men could get pregnant, we would not be having this controversy. Men would be
lining up at doctor offices for contraception like some do for Viagra.

Rick Santorum dismissed Limbaugh as an entertainer. People take Limbaugh's words
as the gospel truth.

It's about time that all companies pulled their ads from his show. His show has
always been nothing but hate and lies, and Limbaugh is a multimillionaire
because of it.

<b>Lynne Robinson</b>

<i>Rathdrum</i>

<b>LIBERALS TWIST 'BIGOTRY'</b>

In recent years, especially with the "first African-American president," the
notion is that anyone who disagrees with the liberal left is a bigot, racist,
sexist homophobe. If we hold a position that is contrary to the left, it's
because we hate, and our side needs to be denigrated and maligned.

If our positions should also fall in line with biblical teachings, then they
shouldn't be allowed because of a mythical separation of church and state, which
was to protect the church (people) from the state, not the other way around.

When I hear my side attacked and called domestic terrorists, hatemongers, etc.,
it only emboldens my resolve to see liberalism wiped out. I suppose that will be
misconstrued as violent, but I think those who are truly reasonable and can
think for themselves will see that eliminating something politically by
convincing enough to your side isn't violence, it is quite the opposite.

When I see the majority attacked by a very small minority, and labeled as
bigots, it makes me proud to wear that badge of honor. If being a bigot means I
oppose tyranny and ignorance, then by God I'm a bigot!

Knuckle-draggers for change!

<b>Rob Leach</b>

<i>Mica</i>

<b>JUDGE GUILTY OF HATE</b>

So there is this middle-aged white male who just happens to be Montana's chief
federal judge. A President George W. Bush appointee, Richard Cebull forwarded an
email joke he thought humorous to six buddies. The email ended up in print in
the Great Falls Tribune. It is racist, vulgar and sexist.

It suggested President Barack Obama's father could have been either a black man,
or a dog, and denigrated Obama's mother by labeling her a promiscuous slut. When
did bashing mothers, especially dead ones, become part of politics? Cebull
insisted he was just trying to show he was anti-Obama, but none of Obama's
policies was mentioned. He stated the "joke" touched his heart.

As disgusting as this man is, I believe we who do not think like him should
thank him. He articulated the Republican heart, which, I think, translates to
all the disrespectful anti-Obama code words: birther, Muslim, anti-religion,
Communist, America-hater and fascist. This heart is the real elephant (pun
intended) in the room.

Anyone who wants to read the email can find it through Google, or the Great
Falls Tribune. Currently the honorable judge is scrambling as fast as Rush
Limbaugh to apologize.

<b>Janet Callen</b>

<i>Coeur d'Alene</i>

<b>OBAMA IS DISRESPECTED</b>

Bill Maher recently said that President Barack Obama was the Jackie Robinson of
American politics. Robinson was the first African-American Major League Baseball
player, and had to endure open taunts and hostility as he blazed his path with
the Brooklyn Dodgers. I think Maher is correct.

From Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer sticking her finger in the president's face, to
Wisconsin Rep. James Sensenbrenner's comment that Michelle Obama has a large
posterior, to Rep. Joe Wilson's "you lie" taunt during the president's 2009
speech to a joint session of Congress, we saw behavior toward a sitting
president that I've never witnessed in my lifetime.

The position of president deserves our respect, regardless of party affiliation.
Imagine any Democrat demonstrating similar behavior or making similar comments
about President George W. Bush or first lady Laura Bush.

And now we hear that sitting U.S. District Court Judge Richard Cebull of Montana
has admitted to sending a racist email about President Obama to some of his
colleagues. Obama is certainly not the most liberal president we've ever had,
and has governed slightly to the left of center.

So what is it that brings forth such hateful behavior? Maybe it's because he's
black.

<b>Jim Boggs</b>

<i>Spokane</i>

<b>PROUD OF SPOKANE CITY COUNCIL</b>

Congratulations to the Spokane City Council!

It's about time our elected officials stand for decency and what is right! The
people of Spokane ought to be outraged by the attorney who even dares to blame
the city for this patrol officer's actions. When will we as a society demand
that people be held accountable for their actions rather than blaming others?

I, for one, am way proud of the City Council for saying enough is enough. We
will not cave in!

<b>Ed Mattfeld</b>

<i>Greenacres</i>

<b>KUDOS TO COUNCIL</b>

I've been following the Brad Thoma case with interest and was pleased that the
Spokane City Council turned down his request for $275,000 in back pay and job
reinstatement.

It is completely foolish to pay a man back pay for his sickness when he could
get help thru Alcoholics Anonymous. Plus, leaving the scene of an accident is
uncalled for.

Now, he has filed a $4 million lawsuit, which, in my opinion, is groundless. If
any ordinary citizen did what Thoma did, they would most likely have had a heavy
fine, maybe jail time, and, of course, loss of a driver's license.

I hope I'm not on the road when Thoma is driving.

<b>John Sparley</b>

<i>Spokane</i>

<b>PAUL A POOR CANDIDATE</b>

The Spokesman-Review got my attention Feb. 18 with the headline reading, "Paul
revs up receptive crowd." What makes an old poop like Ron Paul the darling of
Spokane Republicans? Seriously? Did anybody actually listen to him?

Unless the reporter got his facts mixed up, one of the things Paul calls for is
an end to government assistance to the poor. Really? Totally? In the next
paragraph, a direct quote states our government lets the poor go in their
neighbor's house and take things, which I trust he meant metaphorically. Of
course, I may be reading that wrong.

To my mind none of the people running for office makes sense, but Paul may be
the worst of the lot.

So what are we to do with our poor, Paul?

Not everyone can work, even if there were jobs enough to go around. Not enough
jobs pay enough to live on. I wonder what Paul thinks will happen to the poor.
Should we shove them into ghettos like the slums of India and Brazil? Is that
what Americans want?

<b>C.K.Crigger</b>

<i>Spokane Valley</i>

<b>CHECK THE MIRROR</b>

When I saw the Feb. 26 cartoon by Lisa Benson, I thought it referred to the
dilemma facing college students who need to get loans to pay expenses and can't
find jobs to pay them off. My tuition was $125 per semester for state college in
1963 in Pennsylvania. I was able to cover my costs by working a minimum wage
factory job each summer.

Today, tuition plus expenses are so enormous that students need loans.

Summer jobs, if they exist, aren't much help. This leaves graduates with debts
that resemble Marley's ghost.

Then I noticed the term "OBAMANOPOLY" in the center of the game board. This
totally changed its meaning. America faces many serious problems. We will never
solve any of them so long as we blame them all on any one person. President
Barack Obama is neither savior nor Satan; he is a politician with an impossible
job.

We would do well to remember the famous line from Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar":
"The fault, dear Brutus (fellow citizen), lies not in the stars but in
ourselves." We Americans are the source and solution for most of our problems.
The sooner we realize this the better we will fare.

<b>David T. Webb</b>

<i>Spokane</i>

<b>HELP THE MIDDLE CLASS</b>

How quickly we voters forget actions and speeches of political candidates. Take
Newt Gingrich. While he was in office, Newt spent most of his time trying to cut
Medicare and Medicaid, which would have ended the programs and hurt the poor!

Social Security and Medicare are helpful to retirees, but due to Congress'
adjustments, it is not a livable amount. Thank God Congress did not put them
into the stock market.

Politicians, do the right thing! How much money do rich folks need? Mitt Romney
brags about the $250 million he made for his investors, but this money came from
another's pocket! This could be policemen, firemen and teachers' pensions that
were lost. They are also the people losing collective bargaining rights. Unions
made the middle class possible.

Lately, the politicians have been trying to run them out of town. These jobs are
the first to be cut in many agencies, taking away protection for us in real
times of need.

<b>Pat Corbin</b>

<i>Mead</i>

<b>TYPE:</b> Letters

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              230 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday
                    Flagler/palm Coast News-tribune Edition

READERS WRITE

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 536  words


Does cutting benefits really help taxpayers?

Flagler County's commissioners may need a crash course in Ethics 101 posthaste.
The News-Tribune reported on May 17, "Beginning Oct. 1, part-time Flagler county
employees may have to pay for health insurance." ("County examines employee
benefits," page 1A.)

Full-time employees will continue to get full benefits because, after all, they
work more.

A basic principle in ethical reasoning is to try out the "look and feel" of
one's decision from the perspective of all persons affected by that decision.
County Administrator Craig Coffey, according to the article, thinks that
benefits for part-timers would be unfair to full-timers. Oh, really? Since when
must someone's wellbeing be reduced so that others will feel well? By that same
reasoning, I think we should reduce Coffey's salary seriously since my
not-so-high salary makes me feel treated unfairly. It's the same reasoning with
the shoe on another foot.

But let's suppose that full-timers will now feel elated indeed. We know that
Coffey believes taxpayers to be elated. But at what price? I would really like
for Mr. Coffey to do the math here. How much will I save as individual taxpayer
in order to live with the relative deprivation from the security of life on the
part of part- time employees? Surely, we can express this taxpayer elation in
dollars and cents as weighed against the increase in financial obligation on the
part of part-timers. Determining the balance of pain and elation in an overall
manner is also a part of basic ethical reasoning.

But let me consider another angle here. Perhaps these part- timers do not work
as much because they do not want to work that much. Perhaps they are
independently wealthy and engage in a job merely as a kind of occupational
therapy. In that case, I'd be solidly behind Administrator Coffey's proposal.
So, perhaps the administrator should also report how many part-time employees
receive these benefits frivolously, being so well endowed financially that they
really don't need those benefits.

That gives me another thought. Perhaps one should use a different criterion as
line of demarcation between which employees should and which employees should
not receive benefits. Suppose we use as demarcation the employee's ability to
pay for insurance. Administrator Coffey, I would presume, will make sufficient
money to do without benefits. So might many other full-time employees. We are
thus not depriving them of any securities if we were to cut their benefits. The
taxpayers would be happy; the part-timers would be happy; most full-timers would
be happy; and the ones who are most endowed by income would feel no serious
pain. Much better result, no?

REINHOLD SCHLIEPER

Palm Coast

To Submit Letters Letters to the Editor

The News-Tribune

2 McCormick Drive

Palm Coast, FL

32164

Fax: 437-0139

E-mail: news-tribune@news-jrnl.com

The Flagler/Palm Coast News-Tribune welcomes readers' letters on matters of
public interest. Clear, brief letters on a single subject are most likely to be
published. Those selected might be edited. Please include your full name for
publication, home address and daytime phone number. Letters should be written
exclusively for The News-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



CORRECTION:

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2008 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2008 News-Journal Corporation


                              231 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            January 17, 2014 Friday
                                 First Edition

'Stayers' outperform miners

BYLINE: Ruth Liew

SECTION: FINANCIAL SERVICES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 347 words


Fund managers who ditched resources companies in favour of income-producing
stocks gleaned some of the biggest returns for investors over the last three
years.

Perpetual's Wholesale Ethical strategy, BlackRock's Equitised Long Short Fund
and Lazard's Select Australian Equity Fund were the "stayers" among Australia's
top fund managers, having produced the best returns for the three years ended
December 31, according to research house Mercer.

"The mining stocks have performed poorly, and small caps did not do well either
- the performance was negative and fund managers that held a lot of resource
stocks would not have done as well," Mercer principal David Carruthers said.

Perpetual's Wholesale Ethical Fund, which is managed by portfolio manager Nathan
Parkin, posted 20.7 per cent returns for investors - easily beating the S&P/ASX
300's 8.5 per cent over the same period.

Some of the biggest contributors to the fund's outperformance in the last 12
months include private health insurer nib, Bega Cheese, Clough and Freedom
Foods.

Among the top ten funds is Tyndall's Australian Share Concentrated strategy,
which typically invests between 15 and 25 stocks. Tyndall portfolio manager
Jason Kim, who manages the portfolio, raked in 15.4 per cent for investors
during the three years to December. Mr Kim monitored the rapid rise and fall of
speculative mining stocks in 2010.

"It started to unwind in 2011 - that marked the beginning of when yield came
into favour," Mr Kim said.

"The telcos, the safe haven stocks like the bank started to go up. We had a
yield bias, and that helped our performance," he added.

Tyndall also exited its holdings in Primary Healthcare and Spark Infrastructure,
before snapping up companies such as Henderson Group - one of the best
performing stocks in the S&P/ASX200 in recent years.

Rob Osborn, who manages Lazard's Select Australian Equity Fund, netted 18.4 per
cent for investors during the three years to December.

Mr Osborn said he sold out of his mining stocks during the height of the
resources boom. "We are a bottom-up, fundamental value manager."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 June 15, 2003

Cash: CONSUMER FINANCE AWARDS: Roundup: Smiles better on the internet

SECTION: Observer Cash Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 535 words


THIS could be the year we rediscover the power and promise of the internet.
While other banks have abandoned or cut their web operations, Smile continues to
reveal how internet banking can and should be done.

In this year's awards, Smile won the prizes for best current account provider
(online) and best credit card provider before picking up the ultimate honour:
best customer service overall. It was also short-listed in the best savings
account provider category.

Smile's parent, Co-operative Financial Services (CFS), performed strongly in
other categories. Its CIS insurance arm won best car insurance provider and was
runner-up in best home insurance provider, while the Co-op bank was runner-up
for best mortgage provider and best independent financial adviser and
short-listed for the best current account (offline), best savings account
provider and best customer service overall.

'This is a tremendous achievement for the whole of CFS,' says CFS chief
executive Mervyn Pedelty. 'To have impressed such a financially sophisticated
audience in this way bodes very well for the future of all our brands.'

To see First Direct, an organisation know primarily for its banking services,
scoop the home insurance award suggests some clever lateral thinking. Many
competitors have stumbled when they have tried to diversify, but First Direct
seems to have got it right, scoring strongly in friendliness of staff and
quality of literature.

It's been raining cats and dogs in the pet insurance industry with new entrants
Marks & Spencer, Morrisons, Sainsbury's PetCare, Asda For Pets and Tesco
Personal Finance lapping up customers. But market mainstay Petplan scoops this
year's prize for its comprehensive services. Petplan performed well on
friendliness of staff, quality of literature and the flexibility of its
policies.

Health insurance is another new category introduced this year and HSA is the
clear winner, gaining high scores ahead of its competitors in all six criteria.

First Direct has won the title of best current account provider (offline) for
the sec ond year in a row. The company scored particularly well in friendliness
of staff, quality of literature, account flexibility and efficiency.

After three years of dire conditions in world stock markets, sharedealing firms
have found the going tough and some of the biggest names in the business have
pulled out of Britain or retrenched. In this sort of climate, customers will not
suffer poor service, and First Direct has moved up the rankings to win the best
share dealing category, knocking last year's winner, Hargreaves Lansdown, off
the top spot. So an example of First Direct shines in another area of
diversification.

The range of ethical financial services now spans stock market funds to bank
accounts and mortgages. Sorting out the ethical credentials of companies
courting business in this area is a challenge that has been met by Ethical
Investments Co-operative, which has been voted best independent financial
adviser for the fourth consecutive year. Readers say they're willing to
recommend Ethical to friends and family and that they receive clear details of
charges and commission.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              233 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                            February 14, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Resolute Counseling offers ethical, professional mental health counseling

BYLINE: By, David Barr

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 360 words


ADDRESS: 38 Black Avenue, Chambersburg

PHONE: 717-264-0450

WEBSITE: www.resolutecounseling.com

FACEBOOK: www.facebook.com/resolutecou nseling

EMAIL: Michael@resolutecounseling.com

TYPE OF BUSINESS /SERVICE: Resolute Counseling offers ethical and professional
mental health counseling for adults, couples, and families in a welcoming and
comfortable environment.

PRODUCTS/SERVICES: Areas of expertise include treating depression, anxiety,
obsessive-compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, grief and loss
and sexual/pornography addictions. Some methods used are Gottman therapy for
couples, Christian counseling, and various cognitive-behavioral techniques.
Resolute Counseling is an in-network provider through many health insurance
plans.

HOURS: 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday and Thursday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Tuesday, 8 a.m. to
6 p.m. Wednesday, and 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. Friday

STAFF: Owner Michael Linn is a Pennsylvania Licensed Professional Counselor and
a Nationally Certified Counselor, bringing more than 10 years of counseling
experience to Resolute Counseling. Prior to forming Resolute Counseling, Linn
worked for over three years at Greencastle Family Practice and three years for
Safe Harbor Christian Counseling in Chambersburg. Linn also writes The Christian
Counselor column in the Public Opinion newspaper.

BACKGROUND: Ahead of founding Resolute Counseling in 2015, Linn had a vision
that counseling should be part of a holistic approach to overall health.
Resolute Counseling officially opened to the public in January offering the
Franklin County community a positive path to growth and wellness.

IN THEIR WORDS: "When people come to Resolute Counseling, they can expect I will
take a compassionate and determined approach to improving their problems. I
believe very strongly in making a connection with others and partnering with
them to find reasonable solutions. My goal is to help the people of this
community and also to partner with other health related professionals to provide
a complete and holistic health network." - Michael Linn.

If you would like to have your business profiled here, please contact David Barr
via email at dbarr@gannett.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cpo


                         Copyright 2016 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday

Fees rule hits private healthcare

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words


The new Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines issued by the Singapore Medical
Council (SMC) does not go into force until next year - but it has already become
a major disruptor in the private healthcare market.

The crux of the problem lies with the ruling that doctors should no longer pay a
percentage of their bill to third-party administrators (TPAs) when treating
their patients. The TPAs' clients are usually insurers or companies that provide
staff with medical benefits.

Continuing to do so would open them to possible disciplinary action.

But this is a practice that has been in place for decades and which affects more
than 1,000 doctors, who pay a part of their fees to a TPA that has referred the
patient.

The SMC said that this could be construed as fee sharing, which doctors are
prohibited from doing. To make matters even more complicated, the new rule is
written in a way that leaves it open to interpretation.

As a result, the question of whether doctors may continue with the practice was
raised at four meetings the SMC held on the new code and guidelines. Earlier
this month, it also sent out an advisory to try to clarify the question.

When that did not clarify matters sufficiently, three medical bodies here issued
their own advisories on how the practice may be continued without infringing the
new rules.

Asked for its response, the SMC said it had nothing to add. So until doctors
test the waters, they will not know if the suggestion from the three medical
bodies is acceptable to the SMC, the medical professional watchdog.

The easiest solution is to accede to the SMC's attempt to change the existing
business model.

How that will affect the tens of thousands of patients, and the TPAs, remains to
be seen when the rules become effective next year.

Salma Khalik

TOMORROW
 Food, entertainmentand technology get a shakedown

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne)

                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday

2-17 letters to the editor

BYLINE: Staff

SECTION: OPINION; Letters to Editor; Pg. 02-17 OPIN letters WED

LENGTH: 1900 words


By rejecting Medicaid expansion, lawmakers violate portions of the Hippocratic
Oath

Dr. William McIntyre

and Dr. Laura Martin

Cheyenne

We would like to add our thoughts on the Medicaid expansion funding that the
Legislature is loath to approve.

We both work for the Veterans Administration in Cheyenne and know that
acceptance of the Medicaid expansion in Wyoming doesn't directly affect our
earning power or our patients. But we know that it does affect the lives of many
Wyomingites as outlined by others, including physicians in the recent letters to
the editors.

We would like to offer a few new thoughts.

There are several hospitals in this state, and all of them are suffering under
the burden of unpaid bills by the uninsured. Would the legislators be happy if
their local hospital had to cut back services or close because of the burden of
caring for the uninsured?

A simple yes vote protects all of the hospitals in this state in addition to
bringing in the over $30 million we have turned away by declining to accept the
Medicaid expansion. It will offer another 20,000 residents much needed health
insurance.

The Hippocratic Oath has been recently referenced. We would like to also
reference the ethical principles of medicine, which are being violated by the
Legislature's refusal to consider the Medicaid expansion:

Autonomy - Patients are granted autonomy to make their own decisions regarding
their health care. But if they have no insurance, they basically do not have
health care about which to make these decisions.

Beneficence - This is the principle that providers take actions that promote the
well-being of others. The Legislature takes that ethical tenant out of the hands
of the providers if they don't even get the option of seeing the patients. And
legislators are not beneficent to the welfare of Wyomingites by denying them
Medicaid.

Non-maleficence - This principle dictates that first, do no harm. Passively, the
Legislature is violating this ethic and harming patients who need health care
and benefits by denying them such.

In essence, we agree with all the previous letters regarding the Medicaid
expansion. We encourage everyone to write their legislators, asking them to
support this important advancement for our state.

Rep. James Byrd asks strange question in response to letter about the state
budget

From Ben Finch

Cheyenne

I find it interesting that when I write a letter to a Wyoming representative who
lives here in Cheyenne to voice my budget concerns, my reply back asks only,
"Have you ever voted for a Democrat?"

I am a Republican, and I have voted for Democrats. But I have never been so
shocked and disappointed to get a reply back from an elected official that only
says, "Have you ever voted for a Democrat?"

Being fairly new to Cheyenne I now see how some of our elected officials feel
toward people in their own town. Rep. James Byrd, D-Cheyenne, isn't my
representative. But as this budget concerns everyone in Wyoming, I felt I should
reach out to several of our senators and representatives. At least I got a
response from him as most do not even reply.

If lawmakers turn down expansion, they will be projecting a horrible image of
Wyoming

From Janet Rhodes

Cheyenne

Does Gov. Matt Mead have a plan for how to deal with the thousands of angry
protestors who will make their voices heard and rebel when they read Medicaid
expansion failed?

We are beyond the point of dreaming that the Legislature will vote yes.

Also, it's time to quit begging on our knees and writing nice letters to the WTE
editor to try to get the attention of the Legislature to act appropriately.

Mr. Mead is going to have an ugly mess on his hands trying to deal with the
masses over this mess.

There are times in our lives when we are forced to deal with reality.

Now is the time to deal with the facts and plan how to deal with the aftermath
of Medicaid expansion failure.

The Cowboy State will be in the national news - I can guarantee it. The news
won't sway students to attend our colleges and universities; it won't sway
tourists to visit our state to attend Frontier Days, and it certainly won't
encourage people to want to live here.

When the news of the big mess in Wyoming hits the national news, it would be a
good idea for expansion opponents to be far away on a cruise to somewhere.

And they should update their resumes just in case they don't get reelected.

On the other hand, if the Legislature approves Medicaid expansion, we, the
people, thank you in advance for your full consideration of the people whom you
serve. We know you have difficult tasks ahead of you and you have an impossible
budget to balance.

That is a big responsibility, and we appreciate your efforts to please everybody
with little money.

As Mr. Mead said in his State of the State address, "If you can find the money
to pay for it, I'll approve it."

The governor has found a way to pay for all of it, and that way is by passing a
law in favor of Medicaid expansion. Did any lights go on?

Legislature should increase diesel fuel taxes, but it is in bed with the
trucking lobby

From Larry Bierma

Cheyenne

When the state highway department says it needs "x" dollars to maintain the
roads, it is not making this up. It is not pulling numbers out of thin air; it
has done the math.

Current gas and diesel prices show it is not taxes or refining costs that make
fuels expensive; it is the price of oil. A significant portion of fuel taxes are
paid by the trucking industry and tourists. They who use the highways must pay
for them.

With oil prices down, now is the time to raise interstate diesel taxes 20 or 30
cents. The general treasury should not subsidize highway maintenance.

The Legislature will not raise diesel taxes because the trucking lobby holds
great sway over it. Why else are trucks allowed to run 80-85 miles per hour when
their tires are manufacturer-rated at 70 miles per hour?

It is ironic that both Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders stand in opposition to
Wall Street's crony capitalism. Mr. Sanders would tax the rich and redistribute
the wealth. Mr. Trump would bring factories and jobs back here by increasing the
size of the pie, which is the rational way to support social spending. Mr.
Sanders has the cart before the horse; Mr. Trump has the horse before the cart.

Mr. Trump intends to make capitalism work for we the people; Mr. Sanders intends
to make government work for we the people. The trouble with socialists is that
their hearts always get ahead of their minds.

At least three good things would happen if state accepts expansion dollars from
the feds

From Dr. Peter G. Perakos

Cheyenne

Oil is below $30 a barrel. Coal companies are filing for bankruptcy. Other areas
of the Wyoming economy are suffering. A large number of our workforce is being
laid off or simply out of a job. Some estimate in excess of 7,000 jobs has been
affected.

We need to wake up and support Medicaid expansion. We need to reduce the
financial burden placed on our state and our health-care facilities caring for
those out of work who are unable to afford health care insurance.

Many of our friends and neighbors are working two or three lesser paying service
sector jobs just to make ends meet for themselves and their families.

Expansion will bring in federal dollars to help:

n

Reduce the burden on the state and our health-care facilities for providing care
to those who earn too much to currently qualify for Medicaid.

n

Provide medications at nominal rates that can treat chronic ailments to avoid
severe acute illness requiring hospitalization.

n

Increase the number of health-care workers to serve those that now would be
covered.

n

Decrease the growth rate of state spending for Medicaid services.

If we fail to enact expansion, we are at risk of losing one of our greatest
resources - the working men and women that need health care but are unable to
afford it.

We must support basic health-care needs for all our citizens. We can start down
this path by supporting Medicaid expansion.

Alzheimer's Association director wants to know what candidates will do to help

From Janet Lewis

Executive director, Alzheimer's Association-Wyoming

Cheyenne

As we head into the heart of the 2016 election season, the next big moment is
fast approaching: "Super Tuesday" on March 1.

As one of the 12 states with a Super Tuesday caucus, Wyoming voters have many
factors to weigh as they contemplate who our next commander-in-chief should be.
For me, a candidate's stand on Alzheimer's disease certainly will influence my
choice.

Alzheimer's devastates millions of American families, overwhelms our health care
system and threatens Medicare. According to a recent survey by the Alzheimer's
Association, 73 million American voters know someone with Alzheimer's. I count
myself among those, not only as the director of the Wyoming chapter of the
Alzheimer's Association, but as someone who has lost a father, aunt and
godmother to this terrible disease.

I encourage all voters to research the candidates' stands on Alzheimer's
disease, and to ask U.S. Sens. Mike Enzi and John Barrasso and Rep. Cynthia
Lummis to support the HOPE for Alzheimer's Act. This act would increase access
to information on care and support for newly diagnosed individuals and their
families, providing essential support for those facing this devastating,
debilitating disease.

Alzheimer's is the most expensive disease in the nation. Alzheimer's and other
dementias cost the country $226 billion last year, and costs are projected to
increase to more than $1.1 trillion in 2050. And the emotional cost to our
families is immeasurable.

Healthnet was set up to aid veterans, but it is more of a hindrance than
anything else

From James Carpenter

Cheyenne

I am a disabled Vietnam veteran. I also work at the Cheyenne VA hospital. When
the Veterans Administration couldn't provide timely and proper care for
veterans, Congress created Healthnet, made up of Veterans Choice, Veteran 40
mile and PC3 departments.

Theoretically Healthnet is supposed to enable veterans to be seen quicker and
closer to home than they could through the VA. In reality, it does neither. Most
of the time veterans are waiting longer and dealing with more processing
mistakes with Healthnet than they ever did with the VA. And that's saying a lot.

When veterans call Healthnet to check on their care, the usual hold time is 30
minutes, many times longer, before connecting with one of many call centers,
never the same one, and then they are told that they will be contacted in a few
days with an update. They rarely are, so they have to call again, usually going
through the whole rigmarole several times before their cares are addressed.

Sometimes their cares are never addressed, so they give up and pay for care out
of their own pockets or use Medicare, Medicaid or private insurance. That's not
easy if you're elderly or disabled, living on a fixed income.

In addition, even if you're 100 percent service connected and are being seen for
a service-connected problem, you're still subject to co-pay obligations if you
use Healthnet. So something that would normally be covered completely by the VA
is now subject to co-pay fees.

If you're a veteran, related to one, or thinking of joining the military, check
into this. If you're unhappy with what you find, contact your senators and
congressmen. They voted for Healthnet, so they should fix it. If they won't or
can't fix it, we should get rid of them and their creation.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Cheyenne Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                      May 9, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Health cards will link to computers: Quebec takes aim at insurance-card fraud
with new microprocessor system. The cards one day could provide access to basic
medical information.

BYLINE: ELIZABETH THOMPSON; THE GAZETTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: QUEBEC


A proposal for a new computerized health card, designed to revolutionize
Quebec's health system, will be presented to the cabinet by the end of June,
Health Minister Jean Rochon revealed yesterday.

"We expect to begin as soon as possible this year," Rochon told a National
Assembly committee studying his department's spending estimates.

If all goes well, the government could begin distributing the new
health-insurance card by January 2000 and everyone would have one by 2002.

Initially, the card will simply be used to exchange administrative and billing
information with the health insurance board. Eventually, once ethical and
privacy concerns are ironed out, the card will be used to access a patient's
medical records.

The card would allow doctors to follow a patient's medical history and keep
track of medications. It is also expected to pay for itself within a few years
by increasing efficiency and reducing fraud.

However, the project has raised ethical questions and serious concerns over the
privacy of confidential medical information.

Microchip Added to Card

Quebec first began seriously talking about introducing a computerized
health-insurance card in 1996, following a successful pilot project in Rimouski,
where a microchip containing a patient's medical history was added to the health
card.

Now, Rochon says, it is about to become a reality.

Unlike the Rimouski project, the cards Rochon will propose to the cabinet will
contain a microprocessor rather than a microchip. Instead of a patient's
information being contained on the card, the card will serve as a key to access
a file at the health insurance board.

In the first phase of the new system, the patient's card, along with a card
issued to the doctor, will be inserted into a computer and the computer will
connect with the health insurance board, explained Pierre Boucher, spokesman for
the Regie de l'Assurance Maladie du Quebec. The computer will check whether the
card is still valid. The doctor's billing will also be done at the same time.

At the end of the visit, the patient will be presented with a mock bill,
outlining the services the doctor has billed to the health insurance board and
the cost. The government hopes that making people more aware of the cost of
health services will reduce visits. The change could also reduce the chances of
doctors billing the government for services they don't provide.

The new system also is intended to reduce fraud by patients.

Currently, the insurance board has no way to cancel a card before it expires.
For example, said Boucher, the health insurance board conducted an operation
about a month ago at several border crossings from the United States and found
202 people admitted to having both Quebec health cards and U.S green cards -
cards that are only issued to residents of the U.S. While 89 health cards were
seized on the spot, the remaining 113 people promised to mail their cards back
to the health board.

Could Be Canceled on Spot

Even though the health board now knows that those people are now U.S residents
and not entitled to free Quebec health care, it has no way to stop them from
using ther cards. Under the new system, they could be canceled on the spot when
they are used improperly.

In 1996, the health insurance board estimated it could save $ 130 million a year
by being able to cancel health cards that were no longer valid. Yesterday,
Rochon said the new health cards would also save another $ 10 million by
replacing all the existing patient cards issued by individual hospitals.

Initially, the only information that would be accessed with the card is the
information contained on the existing health insurance cards, Boucher said. In
time, basic medical information could be added, such as blood types, allergies,
information about medical prostheses or serious health conditions.

It will cost at least $ 150 million-$ 250 million to replace 7 million health
insurance cards.

The Health Department will set up pilot projects in 1999, using the cards to
access medical histories. Prime candidates for the pilot projects, Boucher said,
will be university hospital centres like McGill's and the Universite de
Montreal's, which are spread out over several buildings or campuses.

However, Boucher said the government will have to clear many hurdles before it
can use the new cards to access medical files. In addition to drafting
agreements with the professional groups involved, it will have to have the
approval of Quebec's access to information and privacy commission.

How long will it all take?

"God only knows," Boucher said.


CORPORATE NAME: REGIE DE L'ASSURANCE MALADIE DU QUEBEC


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   September 15, 1991, Sunday, SUNDAY EDITION

Should bad genes rob you of life or health insurance? Rapid progress in
identifying genes that predispose people to hereditary diseases is starting to
raise a major ethical dilemma

BYLINE: By Catherine Arnst REUTERS NEWS AGENCY

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 822 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Should insurance companies be allowed to insist on genetic screening before
issuing life or medical coverage?

The question is fast moving out of the hypothetical into the real world as
scientists identify more and more genes that cause hereditary disease. And the
issue is arousing deep ethical misgivings.

Trigger-genes that predispose people to about 4,000 diseases from cystic
fibrosis to alcoholism are already known. It is a relatively short step to
devise blood tests to show whether an individual - or an unborn offspring - is
likely to get such a disease.

Doctors report that some big companies in North America and Europe already use
genetic screening to weed out job applicants who have high disease risks, and
say it is only the next step for insurance companies to follow suit.

Life insurance firms in Holland introduced guidelines on genetic screening last
year, but were challenged by the European Parliament. The European Commission is
now studying the issue.

Britain's leading medical ethicist, Baroness Mary Warnock, who helped shape
legislation on embryo research, recently caused a flurry of public interest by
calling for legal safeguards to stop compulsory testing.

"Insurance companies will demand a genetic printout as now they demand a medical
examination, and the result will be that people and their families will be
compelled to discover things that they would have preferred not to know," she
told an international meeting of geneticists in London.

"The problems that are likely to arise are not medical, but political and
social."

Such public pressure led Britain's Nuffield Foundation for medical ethics to
agree to discuss genetic screening for the first time at a meeting later this
month.

California is already moving to pre-empt genetic screening. The state
legislature is expected to pass the first bill in the world that would
specifically ban the use of genetic information to discriminate in selling
health insurance.

The state's insurance companies dropped their initial opposition because the ban
will be in place for only eight years and most insurers do not expect to use
large-scale genetic screening before then.

But the issue will loom large when the ban expires due to the rapid progress of
a huge international effort to identify all the genes that make up a human
being.

There are more than 100,000 human genes and only 2,000 have been identified to
date. But scientists expect all will be mapped by the target date of 2006.

Those already identified are among the most important in terms of genetically
based disorders. Scientists know the genetic trigger of cystic fibrosis,
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Down syndrome, Marfan syndrome (a congenital heart
condition that affects the aorta) and inherited blindness, among others.

Blood tests are available for some diseases, giving people the choice of being
tested or having the fetus tested.

Expectant parents can already determine if their children will be born with Down
syndrome. Many who find they will, have chosen abortion, but they may be less
likely to end a pregnancy if they learn that the child is fated to develop
Alzheimer's disease (premature senility) by the age of 60.

But some scientists fear the choice will be forced on parents by their insurer,
in the name of assessing risk.

Ethicists fear a future in which insurers could demand that parents have
prenatal testing, and then deny coverage to any child found to have a
"pre-existing condition" in the womb. Or worse, deny coverage even before a
pregnancy occurs if one of the parents carries a deadly gene.

Insurance dilemmas could also arise from many diseases that have a genetic
factor but are also influenced by environmental and other factors, such as
cancer, heart disease, schizophrenia and alcoholism.

Should the presence of the gene alone bar a person from standard insurance
rates?

There are other ethical issues.

What if parents insist on having children despite known and serious genetic
defects? Posing that question, William Alexander, vice-president of Cologne Life
Reinsurance Co., asked further:

"Does this couple have the 'right' to produce 10 children afflicted with cystic
fibrosis and then demand the state (or private insurers) provide the best of
care for them until they die?

"These are tough questions," Alexander said in a series of articles written for
the industry last year.

David Purchase, deputy chief actuary of Sun Life Assurance, in a recent letter
to the Financial Times newspaper, said banning genetic testing by life insurance
companies could leave the system open to abuse.

He gave an example of a person who knows he is at high risk but hides the
information and takes out an insurance policy for $ 400,000 rather than the
standard $ 85,000.

"The community - here the remaining policyholders - are paying not only for the
higher risk but paying for it fivefold."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              238 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 28, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

In Polls, Jerseyans Back Free AIDS Treatment

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 27


Most New Jersey residents think AIDS patients should receive free medical care
or at least have government pay part of the cost, according to a report released
today by the Citizens Committee on Biomedical Ethics.

In 1986 and 1987, the committee, which has been gauging public opinion on a
number of ethical issues involved in the delivery of health care, held town
meetings in 300 communities. Of those residents who attended, 2,247 filled out
questionnaires covering a number of issues, and last February, the committee
hired R. L. Associates, a polling company in Princeton, N.J., to conduct a
random telephone survey of 403 people. Samples of that size have a margin of
error of 5 percent.

''Both surveys corroborated each other,'' said T. Patrick Hill, the spokesman
for the committee. ''We found a moderate position emerging on a number of
emotionally charged issues that we expected would be polarizing.''

Basically, the committee found that people want as much control as possible over
medical treatment decisions affecting them, and they generally support the idea
that society as a whole should help pay for medical care for certain residents
and categories of illness.

'A Sign of Compassion'

Support for paying for treating AIDS patients came as something of a surprise,
Mr. Hill said, ''because the two groups prominently identified with the disease
- homosexuals and intravenous drug users - are often not greeted with a great
deal of sympathy.''

''It is certainly a sign of compassion and concern,'' he continued. ''Beyond
that, there isn't much more we can say.''

Of those responding to the survey and poll, 46 percent said AIDS patients should
receive free medical care; 33 percent said the cost should be shared by the
victim and by Government; 12 percent said the victim should pay the complete
cost, and 9 percent had no opinion.

Only paying for nursing home care for people with Alzheimer's disease, and
nursing home care for the terminally ill received slightly more support from
those surveyed than paying for AIDS patients. They also supported broad
Government financial support for patients needing dialysis treatments, cancer
treatments, organ transplants, drug and alcohol abuse treatment and coronary
bypass surgery.

Recommendations by Panel

The chairman of the committee, Mary S. Strong, said the broad support for
government - and therefore taxpayer - involvement in paying for medical
treatment could not be interpreted as support for some form of national health
insurance.

''We will have to address that question directly, and make sure people
understand what it could mean to their taxes before we ask them to give us their
opinions,'' she said.

Based on the surveys to date, the committee today also made the following
recommendations:

* Enactment of a state law allowing some uniform use of living wills and durable
power-of-attorney documents spelling out the wishes of patients with regard to
health-care decisions. At present, 39 states and the District of Columbia
authorize such documents.

* Enactment of legislation providing broad guidelines for the treatment of the
terminally ill, covering the application, witholding or withdrawal of life
support systems, and the responsibilities of surrogate decision-makers.

* A major education initiative in conjunction with schools, colleges and
universities to help raise the public awareness of the ethical issues raised by
health-care technology and the medical and social needs of AIDS patients.

The citizens committee was started in 1983 by five people, including Mrs.
Strong, who were inspired by the report of the President's Commission for the
Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical Research and Behavior.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                          December 14, 2016 Wednesday

Doctors barred from paying agents percentage of fees

BYLINE: Salma Khalik

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 519 words


Doctors who pay a third-party agent (TPA) a percentage of the fee they get from
patients will be infringing the new medical code of ethics which goes into force
next month, the Singapore Medical Council (SMC) said yesterday.

The new Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines released in September had been
ambivalent on this, which was a matter of concern to doctors party to such
arrangements.

The SMC had said that fees should not be "primarily" based on the work done by
doctors, or be "so high" as to constitute fee splitting.

TPAs are a diverse group that generally charge for their services by claiming 10
per cent to 25 per cent of the doctors' fees.

Some represent companies that provide their staff with medical benefits and can
also help to keep costs down. Others help insurers manage healthcare claims.

However some, often referred to as a medical concierge, simply collect payment
for introducing a patient to a doctor.

The SMC is concerned that such fees could push up costs for patients.

To a query from The Straits Times last month on whether doctors can continue
paying TPAs a percentage of their bill under the new ethics code, the SMC had
said it was "deliberating" on the matter and would provide clarification.

This came in the advisory sent by SMC president Tan Ser Kiat to all doctors
yesterday, which spelt out clearly that "fees that are based on a percentage of
what doctors charge patients may be construed as a form of fee splitting".

Elaborating, Professor Tan said the work done by a TPA in handling and
processing patients "does not vary depending on the fees doctors charge
patients".

So, paying them a percentage of the bill to the patient would reflect the work
done by the doctor and not the TPA. This is prohibited.

He added that it would be considered a breach of professional ethics "regardless
of when the doctor entered into such an arrangement with the third party".

But to give these doctors time to negotiate a new agreement and in order not to
leave patients in the lurch, that particular guideline will be delayed for six
months, going into force only on July 1.

He reminded doctors that their duty is to always place patients' best interests
above business or financial considerations. They should consider if such
agreements "will result in profiteering".

He said: "The fees must reflect the fair work done by third parties in handling
and processing the patients. The fees must also be transparent to the patient."

Dr Desmond Wai, a gastroenterologist in private practice who has agreements with
three TPAs, applauded the ruling, which he sees as the SMC's "efforts to clamp
down on unethical practices" by some medical concierges who merely introduce
patients for a fee.

He is fine with telling patients the amount that goes to the third party, which
he says comes from his fee, and is not from a mark-up.

When asked about the penalty that doctors face for breaching the code, the SMC
said: "The penalty depends on the extent of the misconduct, for example, it may
vary from a letter of advice or warning to a formal disciplinary inquiry,
depending on the circumstances."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Doctors who pay a third-party agent a percentage of the fee they get
from patients will be infringing the new medical code of ethics which goes into
force next month.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           January 18, 1995 Wednesday

Equal access a bedrock value

BYLINE: Morton S. Rapp; GAM

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: Willowdale, Ont.


The front page of the Jan. 7 Globe features two reports related to health
care in Canada. In one, Diane Marleau, Health Minister, is promising to
shut down private clinics in Alberta, so people with extra money cannot
"jump the queue." In the other, Roger Kinnee is cited for his "unethical"
behaviour in buying a kidney for himself outside Canada, since he feared
that waiting for a Canadian kidney might cost him his life.

It is worth reminding critics of Mr. Kinnee that Mr. Kinnee has no
ethical obligations in this matter, except to save his own life. Ethical
obligations rest with the personnel who performed the operation.

It is worth reminding Canadians that Diane Marleau has access to a
federally sponsored health-care centre in Ottawa, used by MPs and military
brass, where there is never any waiting.

I am really unimpressed by politicians who take advantage of
preferential health-care treatment for themselves, while turning the
country into a giant waiting room for everyone else.
 Morton S. Rapp
MD
  Willowdale, Ont.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1995 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           January 18, 1995 Wednesday

Equal access a bedrock value

BYLINE: Morton S. Rapp; GAM

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: Willowdale, Ont.


The front page of the Jan. 7 Globe features two reports related to health
care in Canada. In one, Diane Marleau, Health Minister, is promising to
shut down private clinics in Alberta, so people with extra money cannot
"jump the queue." In the other, Roger Kinnee is cited for his "unethical"
behaviour in buying a kidney for himself outside Canada, since he feared
that waiting for a Canadian kidney might cost him his life.

It is worth reminding critics of Mr. Kinnee that Mr. Kinnee has no
ethical obligations in this matter, except to save his own life. Ethical
obligations rest with the personnel who performed the operation.

It is worth reminding Canadians that Diane Marleau has access to a
federally sponsored health-care centre in Ottawa, used by MPs and military
brass, where there is never any waiting.

I am really unimpressed by politicians who take advantage of
preferential health-care treatment for themselves, while turning the
country into a giant waiting room for everyone else.
 Morton S. Rapp
MD
  Willowdale, Ont.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1995 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           January 18, 1995 Wednesday

Equal access a bedrock value

BYLINE: Morton S. Rapp; GAM

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: Willowdale, Ont.


The front page of the Jan. 7 Globe features two reports related to health
care in Canada. In one, Diane Marleau, Health Minister, is promising to
shut down private clinics in Alberta, so people with extra money cannot
"jump the queue." In the other, Roger Kinnee is cited for his "unethical"
behaviour in buying a kidney for himself outside Canada, since he feared
that waiting for a Canadian kidney might cost him his life.

It is worth reminding critics of Mr. Kinnee that Mr. Kinnee has no
ethical obligations in this matter, except to save his own life. Ethical
obligations rest with the personnel who performed the operation.

It is worth reminding Canadians that Diane Marleau has access to a
federally sponsored health-care centre in Ottawa, used by MPs and military
brass, where there is never any waiting.

I am really unimpressed by politicians who take advantage of
preferential health-care treatment for themselves, while turning the
country into a giant waiting room for everyone else.
 Morton S. Rapp
MD
  Willowdale, Ont.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1995 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            October 16, 2007 Tuesday

Letters to the Editor: Oct. 17

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 454 words


Cultural relativism lives
In a business class a couple of weeks ago, we were told that ethics should be
based on a society's norms.

I heard the same foolishness when I took sociology.

It seems cultural relativism, though it has been soundly refuted by the
philosophy departments in our colleges and universities, is still alive and
kicking in the sociology and business departments.

Ethics should never be based on society. Take the example of the United States
in 1950. The norm was to pay women less because of their sex and to refuse
employment to blacks because of the color of their skin.

That was society's ethical code, and that, if my instructor was right, should be
the basis of our ethical standard at the time.

A few years later, in walked Simone de Beauvoir and Martin Luther King Jr., who
told us we should not judge people on the basis of their sex or skin color but
by the content of their character.

Should we have driven these two moral crusaders and their ideals from our land?

If the standards of morality and ethics were to be based on our society at the
time, the answer is yes. By definition, they would be an extreme and immoral
influence on our society.

Societies change whether for the better or for the worse.

One reason the United States has risen to such heights is that our nation was
founded by men who held objective moral and ethical standards. That brought
consistency to our culture, and we should be grateful.

A society should be based on ethical standards; ethical standards should not be
based on a society.

MIKE BELLSMITH, Chino

'Do no harm'
Recently, I discovered that when a sick person attempts to appeal an unsettled
problem, HMO appeal procedures supposedly set up to help a patient do not work
in the patient's best interest.

In my case, the appeal was denied. It was quite obvious that the appeal panel or
board did not take into consideration my needs or special problems.

The board's decision would also cause me harm. This is completely contrary to
the oath doctors take, to do no harm.

Medical decisions should be based on the problems and needs of the patient, not
the HMO or PPO. I also found that, financially, the board's decisions waste the
HMO's money.

Our legislators must act now to protect human life and the sick. Laws must be
put in place to end the noncaring, no-compassion attitude of HMOs and PPOs.
Doctors must be legally forced to obey their oath to do no harm and heal the
sick.

It appears that fines do not work.

Maybe the solution is revoking licenses and closing facilities that refuse to
comply with the law.

As a doctor's son, I am not used to the improper practice of medicine. Medical
practice is for healing the sick, caring and compassion, not greed.

MEL HUROK, Montclair

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday

Canadian dies of Bali blast injuries;
Vancouver man succumbs to burns;
with parents at side in Australian hospital

BYLINE: ROBERT MATAS

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Vancouver accountant Richard Gleason died in an Australian hospital yesterday,
less than two weeks after he was severely burned in a bomb explosion attributed
to Muslim terrorists on the Indonesian island of Bali.

Mr. Gleason, 39, is the first confirmed Canadian fatality from the bombing of
the Bali nightclub frequented mostly by tourists. About 200 people were killed
and 300 injured in the blast.

The Canadian government expects to hear by the weekend whether dental records
sent on Tuesday to Indonesia match remains believed to be of another Canadian,
Merv Popadynec.

Mr. Popadynec, a Saskatchewan oil-industry engineer, lived in Jakarta and was in
Bali to play in a rugby tournament.

Mr. Gleason, who recently worked at Vancouver's Ethical Funds Inc., had been
vacationing in Bali before transferring to a job at Ontario Hydro in Toronto.

Originally, he had intended to go to Mexico but changed his plans when he found
a cheap ticket to Bali.

"Bali is okay, I guess, if you have perverse tastes and are into such bizarre
things as perfect weather and tropical seas and friendly folks and hotels that
cost $5 a night and beers (double size!!!) that cost $1.80 each," he wrote to
friends a week before the bombing.

Mr. Gleason had been in Bali for about two weeks before the bombing. He was
airlifted to Australia from Bali with third-degree burns to 45 per cent of his
body and injuries to his neck, a lung and spleen.

After several operations, doctors were optimistic that Mr. Gleason would
survive. However, they were unable to save his life, said his parents, Dick and
Audrey Gleason.

His parents were at his bedside when he died. His father, who lives in
Whitehorse, Yukon, and his mother, who lives in Wells, B.C., said Mr. Gleason's
body will be cremated in Australia and his ashes brought to Canada. A memorial
service will be held later this year, they said.

Family members in Whitehorse were not ready to speak to the media, Richard's
brother Jamie Gleason said yesterday afternoon.

A trust fund in Whitehorse set up to help defray medical expenses collected
about $1,000, lawyer Brian Morris said.

Reynald Doiron, a Foreign Affairs spokesman, said the family's costs should be
minimal.

The funeral home has offered to waive most of its fees, he said. The government
will not cover hospital costs, but insurance and the provincial health plan may
pick up the cost, he added.

Mr. Gleason was well travelled and had many friends around the world, said Simon
Crum, a technical writer in Vancouver. Friends had prayed for Mr. Gleason in a
French monastery, and others in South Korea had closely followed his progress,
he added.

Mr. Crum, in a tribute published in a newspaper, described Mr. Gleason as a
kind-hearted, fun-loving five-foot-10, blond, blue-eyed guy who read Jack
Kerouac and travelled with a backpack around the world.

Mr. Gleason was one of at least four Canadians killed and injured by the blast
at Kuta Beach, Bali.

Mr. Doiron said Canadian consular officials cannot locate seven Canadians who
were believed to be in Indonesia.

"We will not close this file until we know where they are - by e-mail or
postcard or something," Mr. Doiron said.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2002 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Docs seek SMC clarification on fees for 3rd-party administrators;
Watchdog 'deliberating over' matter as ethics code is set to kick in on Jan 1

BYLINE: Salma Khalik

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 572 words


Several doctors have asked the Singapore Medical Council (SMC) to clarify if
they can continue to pay third-party administrators (TPA) a percentage of their
takings when the new code of ethics comes into force next year.

The answer could affect the hundreds of thousands of people here who have
employer or insurance health coverage.

The new Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines from the SMC, the medical
professional watchdog, comes into effect on Jan 1. It had said doctors may
continue to pay for such services, but added: "Such fees must not be based
primarily on the services you provide or the fees you collect and you must not
pay fees that are so high as to constitute 'fee splitting' or 'fee sharing'."

At recent dialogues with the SMC to discuss the new code, doctors asked what
"primarily" means in this case, and how high fees have to be to be considered as
fee splitting. Those who have agreements with TPAs wondered if they needed to
terminate their contracts.

There has so far not been a definitive answer.

To a query from The Straits Times, the SMC said: "We are deliberating (over)
this matter at present and will be providing clarifications to the doctors in
due course."

How each TPA works varies, but the majority have some control over the fees
charged. They also do the administrative work, which often includes billing, and
take a fee for their services.

The practice in the market is for the fee to be a percentage of the doctor's
bill. The majority charge 10 per cent to 15 per cent, though some charge even
higher. This is different from medical concierge services, which collect payment
for introducing a patient to a doctor, with little or no additional services.

Dr Tan Chi Chiu, the gastroenterologist and SMC council member who chaired the
committee that shaped the new code and guidelines, said that a reasonable
observer might view 10 per cent of a $20,000 bill "as representing a windfall,
rather than a fair business margin".

Parkway Shenton chief executive Veronica Allen noted that a flat fee might not
be the best solution. She said: "A simple flat fee model may not be equitable in
all situations and, in fact, may penalise doctors when they have smaller bill
sizes."

Still, Parkway Shenton, which currently charges a flat 10 per cent fee, has
decided to play it safe with a variation of fixed and variable fees to be
launched by the end of this year.

Said Ms Allen: "Parkway Shenton is working out a fair fee structure with fixed
limits and thus be based on the value we provide... (to) benefit all doctors."

Dr Low Lee Yong, chief executive officer of Manage Health Connect (MHC), said
his reading of the code indicates no prohibition against doctors paying a
percentage of their bill to the TPA, so long as it reflects the work done.

MHC has been in the market for over two decades and manages medical schemes for
11 insurers and "several thousand corporate clients".

Dr Low pointed out that credit card companies also take a percentage of bills.
This, he said, is fairer to doctors who have small bills, than charging everyone
a flat fee.

MHC charges 10 per cent to 15 per cent, depending on the amount of work done and
the credit risk involved, with fees starting from as low as 40 cents, he said.

Dr Desmond Wai, a gastroenterologist in private practice, said not all TPAs
provide good service. It is up to doctors to join those that do provide value
for money, he said.

facebook.com/ST.Salma

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                     AUGUST 26, 2003 Tuesday CITY-D EDITION

Shuttle report due as NASA weighs risk, plans changes;
Agency bioethicist, a Penn scientist, says space missions worth possible loss of
life.
Bioethicist says space missions worth risk

BYLINE: Faye Flam INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 745 words


When lives are in the balance, is space exploration worth the risk?

That is the essential question that University of Pennsylvania bioethicist Paul
Root Wolpe has wrestled with since the Columbia space shuttle accident killed
seven astronauts Feb. 1.

Today, the investigation report on the disaster will be made public, and it is
expected to implicate defects in the shuttle and bad management at NASA.

As investigators pored over the wreckage, Wolpe, NASA's first official
bioethicist, struggled with the human implications of such risky endeavors. Is
human spaceflight ethical? Should we send astronauts up in the first place?

"At what risk do we explore the world?" Wolpe asks. "Is there an acceptable risk
and an unacceptable risk?"

Despite the dangers that were revealed that February morning, Wolpe believes
space exploration is an acceptable risk.

"We have gotten overly sensitive - people risk loss of life for things that have
much less societal value," he said. People who engage in extreme sports take
risks and sometimes die, he said. "We accept death all the time for things that
are purely for recreation."

Other exploratory ventures also kill people, as when explorers have died trying
to reach the North and South Poles or the top of Mount Everest. "Human beings,
in my view, are exploring creatures," Wolpe said.

And astronauts, he said, "are not naive about the risks."

Until three years ago, Wolpe's job as a bioethicist at Penn had nothing to do
with space. He dealt with such issues as the safety of subjects in medical
experiments and research on human embryos, and the prospect of human cloning.

"NASA has never had an official ethicist or bioethicist before," Wolpe said. And
he didn't apply for the job. A former colleague recommended him, and he said he
got a surprise call while vacationing with his family.

But he has always been enthusiastic about space exploration.

In a heartbeat

Wolpe has found that most people he talks to are not ambivalent about going into
space if they could. They either say they would go in an instant or they answer,
"No, not in a million years."

Wolpe said he would go in a heartbeat.

Astronauts, he said, understand the risks, so he sees no ethical problem with
sending them into space.

Other ethical quandaries have cropped up since he started this job. Wolpe deals
with ethical treatment of people who volunteer for ground-based experiments in
decompression and other hazards of spaceflight. He also set up a universal
system of health insurance for astronauts.

Still, he has found one thing that scares astronauts: the flight surgeon.

"We think of astronauts as the healthiest people on earth," he said, but many
are middle-aged and can be grounded for a previously undetected heart problem or
something as unavoidable as a kidney stone.

"Every time they walk into the flight surgeon's office, they know he could
conceivably find something that could prevent them from flying," Wolpe said.

'What a moment'

The astronauts, he said, focus on flight time as a scarce resource they all
want.

The fear of not flying has created tension over routine medical experiments NASA
does on astronauts.

"Willingness to do research becomes a political pawn," Wolpe said. Some
astronauts fear experiments will reveal health problems they do not want made
public, he said. Therefore, even if there are only three astronauts in a given
test, researchers must conceal their identities.

As for the Columbia disaster, many things can look obvious in hindsight, Wolpe
said.

"It's the job of certain people at NASA to generate disaster scenarios," he
said. "But if you have generated hundreds of disaster scenarios, which one is
going to happen? . . . Which one do you listen to?"

Some people have argued that society does not need to explore space with humans,
that we now have robots to conduct tests and take pictures throughout the solar
system. It is not only safer to use robots but significantly cheaper, they
argue.

Wolpe said he appreciated the argument but disagreed.

"I've bought into the idea that there's a human-spirit issue here," he said.
"What a galvanizing event the moon landing was - what a moment that was in human
history!"

Wolpe was 12 when the country watched Neil Armstrong take his "one small step."
Since then, Wolpe said, "I've always had a soft spot in my heart for NASA."

Contact staff writer Faye Flam

at 215-854-4977 or fflam@phillynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
WILLIAM F. STEINMETZ, Inquirer Staff
Paul Root Wolpe is NASA's first official bioethicist.

                  Copyright 2003 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            March 19, 2009 Thursday

Concerns over proposal to reimburse organ donors

LENGTH: 425 words


THE Singapore Urological Association is a professional society representing
specialist surgeons. Many of our members are directly involved in renal
transplantation and the care of kidney failure and kidney transplant patients.

We commend the Ministry of Health's efforts to amend the Human Organ Transplant
Act, with the intention of increasing the number of transplants.

Our association fully endorses the proposed amendments to lift the upper age
limit for cadaveric donors and to allow donor-recipient paired matching as these
are medically justified.

The amendment to support the welfare of living donors by allowing them to be
compensated seeks to reimburse donors for expenses incurred through their
altruistic act, including loss of earnings, transport costs and possible future
medical expenses.

But this amendment raises the following concerns:

The proposed amendment currently before Parliament would allow for monetary
payment of the donor for such costs. There is a real risk of manipulation by the
indirect inclusion of financial inducements for the donor, in the guise of loss
of earnings and potential medical costs, to inflate the amounts payable.

The provision for 'lump sum' compensation for potential medical expenses is
problematic. The amounts of such expenses are, at best, uncertain; calculations
of future health insurance premiums for the donors will be difficult.

It may be preferable to provide for such costs within Singapore's health-care
framework. An example would be to issue donors with a medical benefits card that
would cover related medical issues.

The ministry may also wish to consider wider medical coverage, given the
potential problem of future insurability of the donor.

Having 'lump sum' compensation would be inappropriate for donors from foreign
countries, as they will have no access to the Singapore health and legal systems
once they return to their countries of origin. There will be little guarantee
that any money paid will be used for its intended purpose. It will also
negatively affect Singapore's international standing as a medical hub with high
ethical standards.

We therefore recommend that the above amendment be restricted to Singaporeans
and Singapore permanent residents.

The question of financial compensation for the donor remains a difficult ethical
and practical issue, and should be tailored to the specific situation in
Singapore. We hope these concerns are taken into consideration in the
implementation of the proposed legislation.

Professor E Kesavan President Singapore Urological Association

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                           September 16, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Parents consider implant to track children

BYLINE: Canadian Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 596  words

DATELINE: LONDON


LONDON (CP) -- The shocking murders of two school girls this summer in Britain
has spurred some parents to look at having their children implanted with a
microchip to track them should they ever go missing.

Based on his previous work with the technology, Prof. Kevin Warwick is planning
on implanting an 11-year-old girl with a microchip at the request of the girl
and her parents in a trial to see whether the device would work in finding
missing children.

Some parents might think using a tracking device for their children as a drastic
step, but more than 100 parents from Britain and abroad have inquired about
getting the microchip implanted in their children since the murders this summer
of the two girls in Soham, Cambridgeshire.

Warwick, who teaches at the University of Reading, just west of London, hadn't
intended for his computer research to be used to trace children. But after the
Soham murders, parents approached him about adapting the technology.

"It has certainly come about through parent power," Warwick said in an
interview. "I think there are quite a few worried parents, and children who are
also quite scared."

Warwick first had a microchip implanted in his arm in 1998 as part of an
experiment on so-called intelligent buildings. The implant transmitted signals
to a computer that opened doors for Warwick and turned on lights when he entered
rooms at the university.

"It was publicity from those devices that got parents thinking," he added.

Although all the details haven't been worked out, the device would remain idle
in a child and activated if they were to go missing. Whether the police, a judge
or the child's parents would decide to turn on the microchip also hasn't been
determined, partly because there is no law in Britain governing the use of such
technology.

The microchip would track a child's whereabouts by sending out a signal
recognized by Britain's cellular telephone network, which means there are parts
of the country where the system might not work because of low reception levels.

There are still some hurdles to clear before the experiment can go ahead on the
child who has volunteered to have the microchip implanted in her forearm.

A university ethics committee must give approval and Warwick is expecting a
healthy ethical debate about the proposal both before the committee and among
child protection organizations before a final decision is made on the trial.

And a doctor who would perform the simple outpatient operation to implant the
device would have to get agreement for the procedure to proceed from his local
National Health Insurance Trust.

Already, some child welfare groups in Britain have expressed reservations about
Warwick's plans, noting that the chances of a child being abducted are very
slim.

The child protection charity Kidscape says it understands the growing concern
parents have about the safety of their children after the Soham kidnappings, but
the microchip cannot guarantee a child will be protected.

"The use of this microchip might be sending out the wrong message about child
safety and could potentially do more harm than good," the agency said.

"It's important to remember that the device itself will not prevent a child from
being abducted or harmed. It merely tells location but not activity. It might be
hours before a parent realizes that a child is missing and then it could
unfortunately be too late."

Warwick agrees that the microchip should not be seen as a protective device.

"I think that is a serious ethical concern," he said. "This isn't a replacement
for parent guidance and parent support."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2002 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 April 18, 2011

Cherry-picking patients leaves sour taste

BYLINE: Ethics Forum. Posted April 18, 2011.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Ethics Forum Vol. 54 No. 16

LENGTH: 1313 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


 Is it ethical for physicians to employ health IT to select healthy patients?

Scenario: Is it ethical for physicians to employ health IT to select healthy
patients?

Performance-based payment approaches may tempt physicians to use electronic
medical records to select healthier patients, a practice known as
cherry-picking, so they can meet performance criteria and keep practice costs at
a minimum. Is the practice ethical?

Reply:

During the past 20 years, cherry-picking by profit-driven health plans and
hospitals has alarmed health care policymakers and contributed to rising health
care costs. A related practice -- "lemon-dropping" or "dumping" -- is the
termination of care for difficult, costly or otherwise unwanted patients.

The spread of pay-for-performance payment raises concern that physicians might
emulate these cherry-picking and lemon-dropping behaviors and deny care to those
most in need, further driving health care costs upward.

Fee-for-service payment, long the predominant payment method in the U.S., has
encouraged excessive focus on diagnosis, documentation of disease and overuse of
procedures to generate higher payments. But in the managed care era, capitation
-- receiving a fixed amount per person, regardless of services rendered --
encouraged health plans, hospitals and others to cherry-pick and lemon-drop to
maximize profits. There is every reason to expect that physicians will face
similar temptations as government and private payers adopt capitated and
performance-based payment approaches.

The widespread adoption of electronic medical records will provide physicians
with powerful new tools for data mining that could assist in selection of
profitable patients. Poorly designed pay-for-performance incentives could
motivate physicians to end their relationships with "difficult" patients or not
accept elderly patients, those with multiple chronic medical problems or those
with low health literacy.

Sophisticated cherry-picking by for-profit Medicare HMOs is well-documented.
Many Medicare HMOs actively recruit clinical practices and patients in affluent
areas, offering healthy seniors free meals and other inducements to switch from
traditional Medicare to their private HMO option. Few recruitment events occur
in low-income or minority neighborhoods. Similarly, capitated Medicaid
managed-care plans have used credit cards, health club memberships and enhanced
vision, dental or pharmacy benefits to induce healthy patients to enroll in
their health plans and increase plan profits.

Health plans commonly participate in lemon-dropping by designing benefit
packages in ways that discourage sicker patients from re-enrolling. A report by
the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission found that some Medicare HMOs require
large co-payments for kidney dialysis, colorectal cancer drugs and radiation
procedures, a practice that leads subscribers who need medical care to
disenroll. A study of Medicare enrollees in Florida showed that people who join
Medicare HMOs tend to have a history of low medical expenses, and people who
have high medical expenses are more likely to unsubscribe.

An HMO in Virginia paid a multimillion-dollar settlement for defrauding a state
Medicaid plan by systematically avoiding costly delivery and neonatal care. The
HMO was paid a fixed amount per pregnant enrollee, and internal company memos
confirmed that the organization intentionally avoided enrolling pregnant women.

Dialysis centers and specialty hospitals also may cherry-pick and lemon-drop to
enhance their bottom line, "firing" chronic no-shows, people who arrive late,
and patients who do not follow diet and medication instructions. Even for-profit
hospices have been shown to select patients with the bottom line in mind.

One study found that, by accepting more dementia patients -- who have
substantially longer average hospice stays than cancer patients -- for-profit
hospices minimized costs in two ways. First, less frequent turnover meant fewer
enrollment costs. Second, dementia patients required fewer home visits by
skilled hospice workers than did cancer patients.

New payment incentives to reduce costs may tempt physicians to participate in
the same cherry-picking and lemon-dropping activities for which they have
disparaged health plans. In the past, physicians have tacitly joined in
cherry-picking and lemon-dropping by participating in the schemes of large
health care organizations that employ them, by selecting affluent locations for
their practices and by terminating relationships with difficult patients. But
today, physicians are facing temptation to cherry-pick and lemon-drop at the
same time that health information systems are enhancing their capability to
select patients.

Lemon-dropping can be conducted easily with a highly functional electronic
medical record system that includes registries for patients with chronic
diseases. Depending on the details of their latest contracts, physicians could
elect to "fire" all patients with certain difficult-to-treat illnesses or
discharge patients who did not meet performance goals, thereby augmenting their
pay-for-performance ranking.

Federal privacy regulations that let doctors use patient information for
internal operations do not specifically prohibit these activities.

Patient selection of this sort is unethical on many levels. First, health plans,
hospitals, HMOs and medical groups that employ these practices can be expected
to increase both taxpayer and employer-funded health care costs. Second,
lemon-dropping disrupts continuity of care and can result in adverse health
outcomes, particularly for our most vulnerable citizens. Third, if these
practices persist, those who do not engage in them will care for a
disproportionate number of sicker, more costly patients, which makes
cherry-picking an unfair competitive practice.

Fourth, a central aspect of professionalism is the physician's willingness to
put patient interests above self-interest. A perception on society's part that
physicians are putting their own interests first by means of these practices
undermines public trust in the profession and jeopardizes effective patient
care.

Unethical cherry-picking and lemon-dropping can be reduced or prevented in
several ways. First, payment approaches that aim to reduce costs or improve
quality need to be designed carefully to avoid creating incentives for patient
selection. Risk-adjusted and pay-for-improvement payment models, for example,
encourage physicians to care for complex and vulnerable patient populations.

Second, insurance reform and health care reorganization can help. The Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act guarantees insurance to those with
preexisting conditions and prohibits cancellations of insurance. Accountable
care organizations -- collaboratives of doctors, hospitals, nursing homes and
others that organize to coordinate patient care and cut costs -- are prohibited
under the health system reform law from engaging in risk selection to decrease
costs. Because physicians, medical groups and physician-hospital organizations
have the opportunity to develop and lead accountable care organizations, it is
incumbent on physicians to advocate for ACO rules that encourage
population-based care for everyone in the community.

Third, medical organizations are an important source of moral suasion, and
position statements by such groups could have a positive effect. American
medical organizations should develop position statements on cherry-picking.
Carefully designed payment models and contracts, legislation and medical
organization position statements can help physicians resist the temptation of
forbidden fruit in the age of health IT.

Carson Strong, PhD, professor, Dept. of Medicine, University of Tennessee Health
Science Center

Jim Bailey, MD, MPH, professor, Dept. of Medicine, University of Tennessee
Health Science Center

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                            March 20, 2014 Thursday

The Daily Record News Briefs: March 20, 2014

BYLINE: Daily Record Staff Report

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 909  words


Sinclair expands stock buyback program Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc., of Hunt
Valley, an independent television broadcasting company, announced that its board
of directors has approved a new $150 million share repurchase authorization, to
be started once the company's existing stock repurchase authorization is
exhausted. Under the new authorization, the company may repurchase Class A
common shares from time to time in the open market or through private
transactions. Since announcing on Feb. 14 that it intended to repurchase up to
$100 million worth of its common stock, the company has repurchased
approximately 2.5 million shares and has approximately $47 million of remaining
capacity under its existing authorization.

Verizon Wireless to add jobs in region Verizon Wireless announced plans to add
more than 300 full-time positions in retail and customer care in Maryland,
Virginia and Washington. In Maryland, affected Verizon facilities are its
regional headquarters building in Laurel and its customer care center in
Hanover. The new positions offer competitive salaries and benefits, including
health care coverage that begins on the first day of employment and
participation in the company's 401(k) program with a dollar-for-dollar match of
up to 6 percent of an employee's salary contribution. Interested candidates may
apply online by visiting the Verizon Wireless website at vzwcareers.com. Verizon
employs more than 3,400 in the Maryland/D.C./Virginia region.

Most Ethical list names Md. companies Two Maryland-based companies have been
named to the 2014 list of the World's Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere
Institute. They are CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield, of Owings Mills, the
region's largest health insurer, and Marriott International Inc., of Bethesda,
one of the world's largest hotel companies. According to the institute, "WME
honorees ... exceed legal compliance minimums and shape future industry
standards by introducing best practices today. " The 2014 WME list names 143
corporations representing 22 countries and 41 industries. The New York-based
Ethisphere Institute is dedicated to the creation, advancement and sharing of
best practices in business ethics, corporate social responsibility,
anti-corruption and sustainability.

Public housing agencies to get grants Twenty-four public housing authorities in
Maryland will receive more than $26.5 million to make large-scale capital
improvements to public housing units, it was announced by U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan during a visit to
Baltimore Wednesday. The Housing Authority of Baltimore City is getting the
largest grant, $17.3 million. The grants are part of HUD's $1.8 billion program
to help the nation's 3,100 public housing authorities build, repair, renovate
and/or modernize the public housing in their communities. The initiative follows
a HUD study in 2011 that found that more than 10,000 public housing units are
lost each year, primarily due to disrepair.

NIH obtains AAHRPP accreditation The Association for the Accreditation of Human
Research Protection Programs, an independent accrediting organization based in
Washington, announced that it has accredited the National Institutes of Health
in Bethesda and three other health research organizations in the U.S. and
abroad. The AAHRPP accreditation covers the NIH intramural research program,
including NIH investigators at more than 20 institutes and centers on all NIH
campuses. The other newly accredited organizations are St. Jude Children's
Research Hospital in Memphis, Tenn.; King Fahad Specialist Hospital in Dammam,
Saudi Arabia; and Taipei Medical University Hospital in Taipei, Taiwan. AAHRPP
provides accreditation for organizations that conduct or review human research
and can demonstrate that their protections exceed the safeguards required by the
U.S. government.

Sans to webcast security survey results According to a recently conducted Sans
Institute Survey on Financial Service Security completed by 293 IT security
professionals, 32 percent of respondents say their organizations spend more than
25 percent of their security budget on meeting or providing compliance mandates.
Yet, only 16 percent felt prepared to fend off attacks against financial
accounts. Sans will release the results of the survey in a two-part webcast
series at 1 p.m. on March 26 and March 27 (www.sans.org/info/155260 and
www.sans.org/info/155265, respectively). Sans is a Bethesda-based provider of
information security training and security certification.

Redstart picks Jumpstart recipient Redstart Creative, a Baltimore-based design
and marketing firm, said it selected Advanced ADHD Coaching, of Baltimore, as
the initial recipient of its Jumpstart program. Redstart created Jumpstart as a
way to help nonprofits that are new and working toward positive change in the
community. Recipients are awarded 60 hours of donated professional time for logo
and website development, approximately valued at $5,700. Advanced ADHD Coaching
works with veterans and first responders who are afflicted with ADHD, or
attention deficit hyper-activity disorder, and other associated conditions.
Redstart said it will continue the Jumpstart program on an annual basis,
selecting one deserving nonprofit to receive the pro bono services.

http://www.mddailyrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2014 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

Ethical fashion: Misericordia and the people of rural Peru

BYLINE: Robb Young

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 858 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Absolutely nothing could have prepared Aurelyen Conty for his future as a
fashion designer. Not growing up in Paris, not a prestigious diploma of fine
arts, not even his creative streak. For your average recruit interested in a
glamorous life of catwalks and couture, this sort of background would be a
textbook recipe for success. But Conty is not average and neither is his label.

Four years ago he co-founded Misericordia, one of a growing number of cult
brands that are putting the ideas of ''ethical fashion'' to the ultimate test.
Beyond conventional fair-trade standards, which were set to achieve fairer
prices and trade conditions for Third World producers, ethically minded
businesses like Misericordia also consider labor rights and the overall
well-being of workers.

And that means their business models can be pretty extraordinary.

Misericordia's headquarters are in Zapallal, a dusty Peruvian shantytown. It is
a bumpy two-hour bus ride across the Chala Desert from Lima, where Conty buys
local fabrics in the markets.

A cheeky sign above the atelier door reads ''La Cabana de Alta Costura,'' or
''the haute couture shack,'' where Conty designs retro-style sportswear. The
atelier is one of the nicest buildings in town, one of only a few permanent
structures made from brick or with modern conveniences like running water and
electricity.

The staff at Misericordia now numbers 16, all members of the local community who
have been trained to cut patterns, sew and control the quality of the garments
to European standards. About 15,000 pieces are individually constructed every
year, with sales this year projected to reach nearly ¤500,000, or $634,000.

The company is self-sufficient under Conty, who lives and works in Zapallal most
of the year. Salaries are 25 percent higher than those of the average garment
worker in Peru and there are benefits unheard of in this part of the world, like
a month of paid vacation each year and health insurance.

''Look, my goal isn't to make the best product in the world but to have the best
process in place for the people behind it. And to turn the best profit for
them,'' Conty said. ''This is a luxury project but the luxury is in the human
value, not necessarily the product. The quality of what we make comes from the
quality of our working conditions.''

Conty originally was inspired by a tracksuit school uniform emblazoned with the
word Misericordia, the Spanish word for ''compassion,'' which he saw some
schoolchildren wearing in Lima. He contacted the Nuestra Senora de Misericordia,
an order of Benedictine nuns, which runs a school for 1,100 pupils and an
orphanage for 180, where the uniforms had been made.

Integrating the tracksuit as his brand's trademark item, he created a complete
collection of sportswear in 2002 and soon began collaborating with young
European designers like Bernhard Willhelm, Stephan Schneider and Lutz for
special Misericordia ranges, including new uniforms for the orphans.

As barriers between the fashion conscious and the socially conscious have begun
to fall, ''ethical fashion'' brands are getting hipper while consumers are
expecting more from companies in terms of their moral stances.

''That's one good thing about today's globalization. We can no longer hide our
eyes to today's problems, even in far-off countries,'' said Sarah Lerfel, buyer
for the trendsetting Parisian boutique Colette, which has sold Misericordia
since its beginning. ''And it's our aim, thanks to some of these 'designers with
a conscience,' to do something about it in our own industry too.''

Ushered in by high-profile labels like Edun and People Tree, ethical fashion is
maturing into a fully fledged movement. But more and more consumers are wise to
the fact that ecologically sound products and ethically traded products are not
necessarily the same.

''Large companies haven't really made major attempts to communicate with
consumers about what they're doing in ethical trade. That may well soon change
but at the moment, we're only just starting to see companies like Marks &
Spencer and the Gap really communicate on these issues,'' said Julia Hawkins of
the Ethical Trading Initiative, an alliance of companies, non-governmental
organizations and trade unions that promotes corporate codes of practice.

They were responding to a definite trend. A recent survey by YouGov, a British
market research agency, found that 78 percent of Britons said they would like to
know more about the way goods are made, including the conditions in factories.
And in a separate poll by The Future Laboratory, a British consumer analysis and
trending agency, 26.4 percent of those 35 to 44 years old and 21 percent of
those aged 45 to 54 agree that ''business should have a civic purpose as well as
a profit motive.''

Most importantly, the consumer is putting his money where his mouth is. The
Co-operative Bank's latest Ethical Consumerism Report, published in December,
said the sales of ethical clothing (which includes fair-trade clothes as well as
organic cotton and garments made from recycled materials) increased to l43
million, or $80 million, in 2004 from l33 million the previous year.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            April 24, 2008 Thursday
                            0 South Pinellas Edition

PETA'S RECIPE TO FEED HUNGRY, SAVE CHICKENS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 548 words


The rights group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals wants to keep
chickens alive and clucking by offering a $1-million prize for the creation of
real poultry meat that could be mass-produced in a laboratory. PETA says it is
looking for commercially viable "in vitro chicken" - taking stem cells and
growing them into poultry flesh, presumably without the feathers and bones. The
process would eliminate the need to kill chickens for their meat, the group
says. The outspoken group based in Norfolk, Va., says on its Web site that the
prize would be awarded to the first people who create such a product in a large
quantity and successfully sell it at a competitive price in at least 10 states
before June 30, 2012.

Jobs up in smoke for 39 at factory

Smoking can be hazardous to your health, and it's turning into a bad career
move. A Whirlpool Corp. factory in Evansville, Ind., has suspended 39 workers
who signed insurance paperwork claiming they don't use tobacco and then were
seen smoking or chewing tobacco on company property. Now, some could be fired
for lying, company spokeswoman Debby Castrale said. Like other companies,
Whirlpool uses financial incentives to encourage U.S. workers and their
dependents to abstain from tobacco use. The specifics vary according to
location. In Evansville, the 1,500-employee factory charges tobacco users an
extra $500 in annual health insurance premiums. It doesn't mandate blood tests
to detect nicotine or trail employees outside work, the company said.

Atlantic City snuffs casino loophole

Atlantic City leaders have voted to ban smoking on the gambling floor of all
casinos. The City Council voted unanimously Wednesday to end the last major
loophole in a statewide ban on smoking in public buildings. Gambling halls had
previously been exempted. The ban takes effect Oct. 15. Patrons could still
light up in unstaffed smoking lounges away from the table games and slot
machines. Casino workers attended the vote. Many wore T-shirts with the slogan
"Nobody deserves to work in an ashtray."

Software delivers on voice command

Microsoft Corp.'s Tellme subsidiary has launched an application for the
BlackBerry that lets people speak commands into their smart phones to search for
businesses, look up movie times, check traffic and make other queries. Once
users download the program, they can push on their phone's green "talk" button
and say either the name of a business, type of business, or the keywords
"weather," "movies," "traffic," "map" or "driving directions." Using GPS, the
system figures out where the user is located and delivers nearby results from
Microsoft's Live Search engine to the smart phone's screen, along with links to
call, get directions, buy movie tickets and other related actions. The program
works only on some of Research in Motion Ltd.'s newer BlackBerry models. The
Tellme launch comes just weeks after Yahoo Inc. unveiled a new version of its
mobile search system, oneSearch 2.0, which includes voice search and is also
designed to work with certain BlackBerry models.

Overheard

"We know what Yahoo's worth; $44-billion is a lot of money."

Steve Ballmer, Microsoft CEO, who said that his company's offer for the Internet
search pioneer reflects its worth and that the software maker has no plans to
raise it

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2):

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

Brandix lauded for ethical business practices

LENGTH: 652  words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, May 9 -- Sri Lanka's top apparel exporter Brandix has been commended
as a role model for environment and employee friendly ethical manufacture at the
House of Lords, the 'Upper House' of the British Parliament.

During a debate on 'Ethical and Sustainable Fashion', Lord Sheikh, Conservative,
a prominent personality in the House of Lords, said: "I was recently a member of
the parliamentary delegation to Sri Lanka, where we were taken to a factory
belonging to Brandix, which makes garments for Marks & Spencer. The factory was
eco-friendly, the working conditions were excellent and the staff were well
paid. Such a factory is a role model for others to emulate."

Lord Sheikh (Life Baron Mohamed Iltaf Sheikh of Cornhill) was one of 11 members
of a high-profile Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA) delegation that
toured the Brandix Green Factory at Seeduwa during a visit to the country last
year at the invitation of the Parliament of Sri Lanka. Among the other members
of this contingent were British Parliamentarians Paul Murphy - head of the
delegation, Stephen Hammond, David Amess and Fiona O'Donnell. The visit was
arranged due to the interest expressed by the members of the group to visit a
garment factory in Sri Lanka during their visit.

"The Brandix Eco Centre is representative of the best practices and processes of
the Group and therefore Lord Sheikh's statement regarding the plant as a model
for the industry is more than just a commendation of that facility," Brandix
Director AJ Johnpillai said. "It is an endorsement of our enterprise-wide
environment and employee friendly corporate agenda. We are gratified by the
commendation of a highly respected member of the House of Lords."

The Brandix Green Plant was also previously commended by the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) as a global benchmark for
sustainable production.

In his speech, Lord Sheikh also stressed on the importance of not sacrificing
decent working conditions and polluting the environment in the pursuit of cost
reductions in the production of garments, the concept at the core of the
business ethic of the Brandix Group. The Group has invested substantially on the
welfare of its employees and on initiatives that promote sustainability,
Johnpillai said.

Brandix provides direct employment to 30,000 associates across 32 manufacturing
facilities. The Group contributes to the enhancement of the living standards of
its associates, many of whom are from rural backgrounds, through employee
specific initiatives such as the 'Care for our Own' CSR programme through which
water and sanitation facilities are provided for needy associates of the Group,
the Marks & Start programme which supports the differently-abled, 'Brandix Ran
Daru Scholarships' awarded to the children and siblings of non-executive
employees, the Chairman's Fund, Worker's Councils, Employee Loans and Medical
Insurance.

Brandix is also at the forefront of national and global efforts to adopt
eco-friendly manufacture. The Group had succeeded in reducing its Carbon
footprint by 17 per cent in 2010 and plans an overall 30 per cent reduction by
2012..

The pioneer of the concept of 'total solutions' in Sri Lanka's apparel sector,
Brandix is a preferred solutions provider to some of the world's leading apparel
brands, including Victoria's Secret, PINK, Gap, Banana Republic, Marks &
Spencer, Lands' End, Tommy Hilfiger, Hanes, Express, H&M, Intimissimi and Tesco.
The Group specializes in casual bottoms, underwear, lounge and sleepwear, bras,
textiles, knitted and woven fabrics, sewing and embroidery thread, accessories
and hangers, and also offers wet processing and finishing and fabric printing.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday

Treating healthcare as a human right;
President s ethical initiative leads to Galway conference

BYLINE: Lorna Siggins

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 965 words


Counting down the minutes to medical attention while waiting on a hospital
trolley in the wee small hours, one may have many thoughts: but not necessarily
about the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.

Yet, under Article 12 of this treaty, Ireland has committed itself to ensuring
that medical treatment in the event of sickness is a human right. Not only that
but, as a signatory, the State has also recognised the right of "everyone" to
enjoy the "highest attainable standard of physical and mental health" - no
strings or health insurance policies attached.

The big problem in Ireland and many countries is that patients and their
families or carers don't often think about this rights-based approach, according
to Prof Sofia Gruskin, director of the global health and human rights programme
at the University of Southern California's Institute for Global Health.

Gruskin, who is also adjunct professor at the Harvard School of Public Health
and an associate editor of the American Journal of Public Health, will be a
keynote speaker on this subject at a conference to be hosted as part of
President Michael D Higgins's ethical initiative at NUI Galway (NUIG) on Friday.

"In defining the human right to health and to healthcare, we talk about the AAAQ
framework," she says. "By this, we mean available, accessible, acceptable (AAA)
and of good quality (Q), and there has to be a commitment to accountability and
transparency," she explains.

"We do have to recognise that no health system in the world can provide all
these immediately and completely," she says. "But there is a difference between
incapacity and unwillingness, and the key issue within that is the idea of
progressive realisation - as in, governments setting benchmarks and targets, and
accepting that they will be held accountable.

"One has to be aware that there is often a difference between what governments
will say to each other . . . and what they will say at a national level,"
Gruskin notes. "It is also incredibly important that patients are aware of their
rights, and that they - we - know there is a difference between saying 'Please
may I have this?' and 'I am entitled to this' in treatment," she says. "Medical
and health staff have rights too, but they also have responsibilities."

While she was living in San Francisco during the first wave of HIV-related
illness in the 1980s, Gruskin began to take an interest in the human rights
dimension to healthcare. "I saw some of my friends die at a time when there was
no proper legal system in place for them, as in, no recognition of same-sex
partnerships, no recognition of the right to will belongings to partners, and a
lot of stigma," she says. "I then became very interested in the implications for
that internationally, such as in the implications for women in sub-Saharan
Africa," she says.

Her focus has been on non-communicable disease, child and adolescent health,
HIV/Aids, sexual and reproductive health, gender-based violence and health
systems. This includes the right to a safe abortion - but she cautions that in
human rights law, there is "no right to abortion".

"Where women are in a position that they need to seek one, they do have the
right to a safe procedure, and it is a legitimate healthcare service," she says.

"Human rights is a language that speaks to people everywhere, except in the US,"
she says. "Europe is way ahead of the US: just see what it took to get Obamacare
through." And she describes Brazil as a global leader. "It is not necessarily a
role model for all human rights, but in the case of access to healthcare it
recognises that right in its constitution. For example, Brazil has made
antiretroviral drugs for the treatment of HIV/Aids available for free."

"It does have a number of problems, but we can all still learn from its mistakes
as it has a very good system of accountability which we can refer to," she says.

"Rosie", the alias used by the late Susie Long, sparked a debate about
inequalities and the two-tier Irish healthcare system in 2007. The Ohio-born
mother-of-two had been referred for a colonoscopy by her GP in the summer of
2005 after she presented with a number of symptoms. She didn't have private
health insurance, and her cancer had spread by the time she was diagnosed.

As she recounted on RTÃ[0/00] Radio's Liveline, it was during a chemotherapy
session in January 2007 that she had learned the full reality of the two-tier
system. Another patient, with private insurance, had been diagnosed within three
days of being referred and was going to recover. Long died later that year.

"Susie Long raised both human rights and moral issues," says Dr Diarmuid Ã"
Donovan, co-convenor of the conference with Prof Michael O'Flaherty of the Irish
Centre for Human Rights at NUIG.

O'Donovan, a senior lecturer in social and preventive medicine at NUIG, and HSE
West director of public health, has recently returned from several spells of
working with victims of Ebola. "The opportunity arose to organise this as part
of President Higgins's ethical initiative, and he will be in attendance,"
O'Donovan says.

It will be the first conference of its type, in engaging all stakeholders. There
has been little if any previous debate, although former Ombudsman for Children
Emily Logan has commented publicly about children's rights in healthcare
settings in the context of research on the issue published in November, 2013. In
her new post as Irish Human Rights and Equality Council chief commissioner,
Logan will make a full statement on the right to health as part of her report to
the UN on the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in
June.  The Human Right to Health conference takes place at Ãras Moyola, NUIG, on
Friday, February 6th. For more details, see iti.ms/1BKyKu5

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Prince Rupert Daily News (British Columbia)

                           September 16, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

British scientist planning microchip implant trial in bid to foil kidnappings

BYLINE: Canadian Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 596  words

DATELINE: LONDON


LONDON (CP) -- The shocking murders of two school girls this summer in Britain
has spurred some parents to look at having their children implanted with a
microchip to track them should they ever go missing.

Based on his previous work with the technology, Prof. Kevin Warwick is planning
on implanting an 11-year-old girl with a microchip at the request of the girl
and her parents in a trial to see whether the device would work in finding
missing children.

Some parents might think using a tracking device for their children as a drastic
step, but more than 100 parents from Britain and abroad have inquired about
getting the microchip implanted in their children since the murders this summer
of the two girls in Soham, Cambridgeshire.

Warwick, who teaches at the University of Reading, just west of London, hadn't
intended for his computer research to be used to trace children. But after the
Soham murders, parents approached him about adapting the technology.

"It has certainly come about through parent power," Warwick said in an
interview. "I think there are quite a few worried parents, and children who are
also quite scared."

Warwick first had a microchip implanted in his arm in 1998 as part of an
experiment on so-called intelligent buildings. The implant transmitted signals
to a computer that opened doors for Warwick and turned on lights when he entered
rooms at the university.

"It was publicity from those devices that got parents thinking," he added.

Although all the details haven't been worked out, the device would remain idle
in a child and activated if they were to go missing. Whether the police, a judge
or the child's parents would decide to turn on the microchip also hasn't been
determined, partly because there is no law in Britain governing the use of such
technology.

The microchip would track a child's whereabouts by sending out a signal
recognized by Britain's cellular telephone network, which means there are parts
of the country where the system might not work because of low reception levels.

There are still some hurdles to clear before the experiment can go ahead on the
child who has volunteered to have the microchip implanted in her forearm.

A university ethics committee must give approval and Warwick is expecting a
healthy ethical debate about the proposal both before the committee and among
child protection organizations before a final decision is made on the trial.

And a doctor who would perform the simple outpatient operation to implant the
device would have to get agreement for the procedure to proceed from his local
National Health Insurance Trust.

Already, some child welfare groups in Britain have expressed reservations about
Warwick's plans, noting that the chances of a child being abducted are very
slim.

The child protection charity Kidscape says it understands the growing concern
parents have about the safety of their children after the Soham kidnappings, but
the microchip cannot guarantee a child will be protected.

"The use of this microchip might be sending out the wrong message about child
safety and could potentially do more harm than good," the agency said.

"It's important to remember that the device itself will not prevent a child from
being abducted or harmed. It merely tells location but not activity. It might be
hours before a parent realizes that a child is missing and then it could
unfortunately be too late."

Warwick agrees that the microchip should not be seen as a protective device.

"I think that is a serious ethical concern," he said. "This isn't a replacement
for parent guidance and parent support."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2002 Prince Rupert Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                          May 2, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL

Canadians must 'draw line' on medicare: It's time to 'face facts' about
expensive technology, aging population, Tobin says

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy

SECTION: News; A1 / Front

LENGTH: 835 words


Newfoundland Premier Brian Tobin says the country must confront some tough
ethical choices about where to ''draw the line'' on how generous medicare can be
for Canadians.

In a speech yesterday in Toronto to the Canadian Institute of Actuaries, Mr.
Tobin voiced several concerns that other premiers also have raised in recent
weeks.

He said Canadians overwhelmingly support the principles of the 30-year-old
public health system, but that governments must face the fact that certain
factors -- such as the aging population and introduction of expensive
technologies such as MRIs and drug therapies -- will dramatically boost future
costs of the $60-billion medicare program.

He said it's time for some ''frank talk about the real issues facing our health
care system.''

''How we deal with emerging technologies and therapies will have important
policy and ethical implications,'' Mr. Tobin's text said.

''For example, should new therapies that benefit a very few be insured by
government, even if they are very costly? Where do we draw the line between a
reasonable standard of service and maintaining a fiscal accountability over the
system?''

In his speech, the Liberal premier said the provinces and the federal government
-- currently embroiled in a dispute over federal funding for medicare -- must
find a way to resolve their differences.

He urged the Chretien government to grant the provinces' ''modest request'' of
an immediate $4.2-billion annual boost in health-care transfers. In return, Mr.
Tobin said the provinces should work with the federal government to reform the
health system.

''We have to figure out how to get costs down, while still providing good-
quality health care to Canadians,'' said Mr. Tobin.

''We have to recognize that strengthening our national health-care system is a
national project. We should not be afraid to bring new ideas and approaches to
the table for debate. But we can't be running off in all directions, with each
province and the federal government desperately hunting for magic bullets in
isolation of one another. If we do, the system will disintegrate.''

He stressed that Canadians should avoid the temptation of resorting to
privatized medicine -- such as the contentious proposal put forward by Alberta
-- to help reduce costs.

''Let's not get duped into thinking that some sort of two-tier system or system
which involves private care institutions will save us.''

Similarly, in a veiled jab at the Ontario government, which has run TV ads
highly critical of federal underfunding, Mr. Tobin said: ''the time for the
'blame game' has passed.''

''Let us start producing more results and less television ads.''

However, Mr. Tobin's speech was short on details of his own proposals.

Although leader of a small province, Mr. Tobin is a significant political player
for several reasons: He is the sole remaining Liberal premier, he has close
personal ties with Prime Minister Jean Chretien, and he is viewed as a contender
for the federal Liberal leadership.

His comments yesterday come in the wake of a speech last month in which
Saskatchewan Premier Roy Romanow said it's time to overhaul medicare.

Mr. Romanow called on the federal government and other provinces to help him
start a ''national dialogue'' -- perhaps through a special inquiry or royal
commission similar to the one headed by Emmett Hall in the 1960s that helped
lead to medicare.

The NDP premier said an ''honest and open debate'' is required to discuss
questions such as: What ''medically necessary'' services should provinces be
expected to cover in their health plans, and to what extent, if at all, can
patients themselves contribute toward the costs of their health care?

Mr. Romanow warned that medicare is approaching a ''cost crunch'' and provinces
are ''beginning to hit the wall in terms of financial sustainability.''

Mr. Tobin was unclear as to whether he favours a royal commission and it appears
he is leaning more toward governments themselves agreeing on how to set the
parameters of medicare, while still embracing improvements such as home care and
preventive-medicine programs.

He said changing demographics will have ''profound implications'' for the future
cost of the health system and the types of services that will be required.

Mr. Tobin said people over age 65 account for about 60 per cent of all days
spent in hospital, even though they account for only about 12 per cent of the
Canadian population.

And the number of seniors will rise dramatically in the next four decades.

By the time many baby boomers begin to retire in 2016, there will be six million
seniors, or 16 per cent of the population. By 2041, their numbers will have
grown to 10 million, comprising 22.6 per cent of the population.

''Without question, the health-care system must adopt to reflect these
demographic shifts, and it must remain flexible so that it can adjust to deal
with such shifts in the future,'' Mr. Tobin said.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: Brian Tobin: 'How we deal with emerging technologies
and therapies will have important policy and ethical implications.'

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                                August 11, 1997

6 Producers Set Up Standards Commission

BYLINE: BY STEVEN BROSTOFF

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: Washington


Six insurance professionals have created a new organization they say will seek
to uphold professional standards and responsibilities for insurance agents by
awarding a new designation.

Calling themselves the "National Commission on the Accreditation of Benefit
Advisors," the organizers of the group will seek to establish a designation
termed "Certified Benefit Advisor."

The organizers said they would establish and enforce professional standards,
implement an accreditation process and promote the designation to both the
industry and the public in a national publicity campaign.

Joe Pugh, who heads an insurance marketing firm in Diamondhead, Miss., will
chair the new commission. He is a former president of the National Association
of Health Underwriters.

At a recent press conference, Mr. Pugh said the commission's initial funding is
$ 100,000. Subsequent funding, he said, would come from fees paid by accredited
advisors. The amount of the fee had not yet been established as of the press
conference, he said.

Mr. Pugh called the commission an "historic day for the insurance industry." The
time has come, he said, for more governance of insurance agents and creation of
this commission and designation should increase the confidence and security of
consumers who do business with accredited advisors.

While other designations exist in the life and health insurance industry, Mr.
Pugh said, they are mostly educational in nature, even though they also have an
ethical component.

The new designation, he said, will emphasize both education and ethics. Both
standards will be enforced by requiring annual recertification, he added.

Despite the existence of other designations, he said he believes insurance
agents will want to acquire the Certified Benefit Advisor designation to
identify themselves as meeting high educational and ethical standards.

The commission, Mr. Pugh said, came about following years of discussions with
industry leaders on the need for some type of self-regulatory organization for
life and health agents.

While there was widespread agreement on the need for such an organization, he
said, no one had taken steps to form a group. The leaders of the National
Commission stepped forward to try to make it a reality, he said.

Jay Grant, former president and CEO at NAHU, who will serve as president of the
commission, said he has met with several industry leaders about the new
designation.

Specifically, he said, Bill Gradison, president of the Health Insurance
Association of America appeared very enthusiastic about the idea.

Richard Coorsh, an HIAA representative, said Mr. Gradison did indeed meet with
Mr. Grant, and is supportive of the concept and is interested in keeping up with
the commission's activities.

But he added that Mr. Gradison did not offer an endorsement of any accreditation
program because it is outside HIAA's scope.

National Underwriter also contacted the National Association of Life
Underwriters, but an NALU representative said they had no information at this
time on the new designation.

Mr. Pugh said the commission will be comprised of nine members. The process for
selecting commissioners and as well as such issues as length of their terms have
still not been finalized, he said.

There will also be a board of professional standards that will approve the
certification of each benefit advisor, review consumer complaints and issue
recommendations.

This board will be comprised of six members, two of whom will be former state
insurance commissioners or deputy commissioners.

An advisory board, comprised of representatives of insurance trade associations,
employers groups and consumer groups, will also be established.

The commission will also establish a consumer hotline to handle complaints and
interact with state insurance commissioners, the Department of Health and Human
Services and other appropriate agencies to report misconduct.

Unlike some other SROs, such as the National Association of Securities Dealers,
which is subject to government oversight by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the National Commission would not be subject to government
oversight.

However, Mr. Pugh said, the commissioners do hope to work with the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners, although there is no final agreement.

In addition to Mr. Pugh and Mr. Grant, other founding members of the commission
include James B. Henderson, an insurance broker from New Orleans; Arthur C.
Jetter Jr., an insurance broker from Omaha, Neb.; Michael Rose, an insurance
broker from Clifton, N.J.; and Roger W. Skinner, an insurance broker from
Indianapolis.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1997 The National Underwriter Company


                              258 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Sunday News (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                            February 5, 2006, Sunday

Finding a spot in the right

BYLINE: SUNDAY'S GUEST/Bill Adams

SECTION: P; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 790  words


It's the fourth quarter of today's Super Bowl. Seattle trails 21-20 and has
third and four at its own 45. You're a Steelers linebacker. You read the sweep
play perfectly and drive Alexander out of bounds on your sideline, three yards
short of the first down. But as you push him, you inadvertently tug on his face
mask.

The officials didn't see it. Alexander is screaming "foul." If the penalty is
called, Seattle keeps its drive alive. Ethical question: Do you admit what you
did to the official? You think I'm crazy for even raising the question. Of
course, you don't. That's the way the game is played. So, the NFL code of
sportsmanship (not) trumps NFL rules. What if I'm playing in a golf tournament,
and I find that one of my drives has come to rest under a stick? I inadvertently
move the stick. Nobody sees it. Ethical question: Do I tell my fellow
competitors what I have done and assess a penalty on myself? Again, you think
I'm crazy for even raising the question. Of course, you do. That's the way the
game is played. So, the golf code of sportsmanship lines up exactly with USGA
rules. The irony is that one infraction is replayed for millions of television
viewers - and we don't confess to it - whereas the other takes place almost in
private, and we do call it. What's going on here? What's going on is life, and
knowing what's right, what's wrong and what to do about it. This is not about
morality, the absolute truths that mankind has discovered over the millennia
from experience and, for many, from divine revelation. This is about ethics:
choosing that which is right, even when it does not serve our self-interest. Out
of all that has been written about ethics, focus here on one proposition:
Ethical choices can be tough ones, for the people who just go about their daily
lives to the heads of the largest business, government, military, religious and
not-for-profit organizations. Black-and-white decisions of right vs. wrong are
easy ones, even for most of those who choose to do wrong. "Right vs. right"
decisions are much more difficult. Choose between truth and loyalty. Which is
the higher right? What would you do in the following situation? A co-worker who
is struggling financially repeatedly takes home a lot of office supplies for her
children's schoolwork. Your supervisor is alarmed that supply usage is so high.
Do you tell anyone? Does truth take precedence? Consider self vs. community.
Which is the higher right? Your brother needs an expensive operation but has no
health insurance. To help him save, you hold a second job as a nighttime
forklift operator in a warehouse. You are bone-tired most of the time. You make
mistakes. In fact, you came close to injuring someone twice in the last month.
The job pays well. Do you leave it before you hurt someone? Let's escalate the
choices to business management. My friend, the late Wes Shope, spoke at length
about ethics in 1989. He described a definition of business ethics that many
adhere to. It's called "utilitarian" and was defined as, "Doing what results in
the greatest happiness for the greatest number." It's appealing but so complex
to follow. Wes gave this illustration: "If closing a plant or displacing 500
employees allows the company to survive for its 10,000 other employees, the
definition would appear to say that this action is ethically justified. If,
however, survival were not the question, but the closing of the plant enabled
the corporation to sell its $250 product for $200, is the closure still ethical?
If so, if the reduction in price is only $10, is the decision really
justifiable? "If, instead of lowering the price at all, the whole saving was
passed on to the 10,000 shareholders, is the closure ethical? And what if the
major shareholder manages pension funds for schoolteachers? "As you can see, the
possibilities are confounding. And do I accept the decision if I am one of the
displaced employees, where my judgment of the fairness of the action may be at
odds with a larger, less-biased perspective?" Fairness is often a tough
calculation for managers in all organizations. Most people don't face big
decisions like that one. We face little ones, though. They do affect other
people. We usually rely on what deep down we know to be the right thing to do.
It's called conscience. It usually works, but perhaps not when faced with "right
vs. right." So try this on (from the philosopher Emmanuel Kant): Act as if the
action you choose in an ethical dilemma is the one that everyone, everywhere
will choose from now on until the end of time. Enjoy the game where, unlike in
life, men in zebra shirts decide what is right and what is wrong. Bill Adams is
a former president and chairman of Armstrong World Industries.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bill Adams Sunday's Guest

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 8, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Teamsters Union Makes Great Strides in Restoring Democracy

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words



To the Editor:

It's easy to see why a reputed top mob leader would want to smear me and
undermine the efforts I have been committed to for more than 25 years to restore
democracy and honesty to the Teamsters Union. It's harder to see why you would
publish outrageously false innuendo in "Despite Change, Reform Is Slow in the
Teamsters" (front page, June 28).

According to your reporters, Alphonse D'Arco, allegedly a former leader of the
Lucchese crime family, now a paid and protected Government informant, told
Federal officials he had conversations with me on some unspecified topics years
ago.

When your reporters asked me about that charge, I told them I did not know Mr.
D'Arco and never had any dealings with him. The reporters never interviewed Mr.
D'Arco, nor obtained any details or documentation of his claim. You published
the unsubstantiated charge anyway.

The Times welcomes letters from readers. Letters must include the writer's name,
address and telephone number. We regret that we cannot acknowledge or return
unpublished letters. Those selected for publication may be shortened for space
reasons.


You also claimed -- without evidence -- that I "worked closely" with Joseph
Trerotola, longtime head of the Teamsters joint council in New York. I told the
reporters that was not the case, and my long record in the union bears me out.

I also told them I put that joint council in trusteeship some months ago -- the
first time in Teamsters history a joint council was assigned a trustee to
protect members' rights.

My staff and I also told your reporters about trusteeships I've established at
Local 237 and four other locals in New York, as well as locals in Chicago,
Cleveland and other cities. We described our actions to prevent corrupt deals in
the movie industry. We gave examples of initial successes by our fledgling
ethical practices committee, which have stopped collusion between employers and
corrupt union officials.

Yet none of those details were used. Nor did you include anything about new
approaches we've adopted to get members involved in campaigns to defend their
jobs, pensions and health benefits. Nor our unprecedented grass-roots
mobilization to win national health insurance and a trade policy to benefit
working people.

We have not erased 90 years of problems in the Teamsters union in just the 17
months since I was elected general president. That will take a combination of
union democracy, new union programs, trusteeships, the ethical practices
committee and many other actions.

We still have a long way to go to achieve Teamster reform, and I welcome
criticism. But it should be based on a look at the whole picture and on facts,
not on false statements and innuendo by alleged mob figures and others who want
to see our reform efforts fail.

RON CAREY
General President, Intl. Brotherhood
of Teamsters, A.F.L.-C.I.O.
Washington, June 29, 1993

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 19, 1986

Ethical investment movement grows with new unit trust

BYLINE: By JAMES ERLICHMAN

LENGTH: 378 words


The still small voice for ethical investment in Britain grew louder yesterday
when stockbrokers Buckmaster & Moore announced the creation of 'The Fellowship
Trust'.

The new unit trust will specifically avoid investing in companies which have
'significant interests' in gambling, tobacco, alcohol, armaments and South
Africa.


Although socially-screened investment is a dollars 50 million industry in the
United States and comprises 5 per cent of all stock movement is still very much
in its infancy in Britain.

The Fellowship Trust is only the third ethical investment fund to be set up in
Britain but it is the second to be announced this week. On Thursday Royal
Heritage Life Assurance issued an insurance linked bond for the
newly-established Ethical Investment Fund which operates from Queen Street in
London. Royal Heritage is part of Britain's largest composite insurer, the Royal
Assurance Group. The only ethical investment fund established prior to the
recent call for sanctions against South Africa is the Stewardship Unit Trust run
by Friends' Provident since 1984.

Buckmaster and Moore said that its managers of The Fellowship trust will
regularly report to a committee of reference which will devise its principles of
investment and advise on borderline decisions. Members of the committee will
include Mr John Chalkey, a member of the investment committee of the Methodist
Church's central board of finance, and Sir John Stow and Mrs Lorrie Leaver who
both advise charities.

Although 34 major UK companies, including ICI, recently expressed their united
opposition to sanctions against South Africa, most firms have kept a low profile
about their direct and indirect investment in the South African economy.

The Ethical Investment Research and Information Service (Eiris) produced a
report last month which showed that most British companies in South Africa pay
their black workers below the minimum target called for by the European
Commission. Companies paying less than half the EEC target include BET, Thorn
EMI, British Petroleum and Lonrho, according to the report. And at least three
large UK companies, Sun Alliance, Trusthouse Forte and Siebe, have refused even
to disclose details of their wage levels to the EEC.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              261 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 1, 1997, Saturday

Personal Finance: Money Makeover; Young and single and no cash to waste

SECTION: FEATURES; Page  2

LENGTH: 875 words


Name: Emma Drinkwater

Age: 24

Occupation: Personal assistant

The financial problem: Emma works for a film production company and earns
approximately pounds 10,000 per annum. She lives rent-free in her parents' house
and has monthly outgoings of pounds 175 council tax and pounds 60 gym
membership.

She has savings of pounds 6,300 in an Abbey National Investor 30 Account and
pounds 2,500 in Premium Bonds.

Emma is concerned that this money is not working hard enough for her and she is
happy to invest this with a five-year view and balanced attitude to risk and in
an ethical investment style. Emma also wants to consider her protection and
pension needs although, with very little free income, feels it is important to
keep her outgoings to a minimum.

The adviser: Ian Millward, investment marketing manager, Chase de Vere
Investments, 2 Queen Square, Bath BA1 2HD (01225 469 371).

The advice: Life cover and critical illness insurance, while important, are
probably beyond her means, bearing in mind her low income.

Emma is young and has no liabilities. Therefore, with her limited budget, her
funds would be better directed elsewhere at present. This is not to say that
these are not important issues, and she should consider critical illness and
life cover as soon as she can afford it.

However, her employer makes no provision for permanent health insurance and this
area does need looking into. If Emma were unable to work due to illness or
sickness for a prolonged period, she would have to survive on state benefits of
pounds 62.45 per week. This is just one-third of her existing income. The
maximum benefit Emma is entitled to claim, including state benefits, is 75 per
cent of her salary. This would be pounds 144.23 a week, less pounds 62.45,
leaving a shortfall of pounds 81.78. For a pounds 10 monthly premium, Friends
Provident will provide cover of pounds 75 per week, making up the majority of
the shortfall.

On the investment side, Emma's money is very secure. But lower returns reflect
this level of security. First, it is important that Emma retains a certain level
of liquidity in case of emergencies.

She should keep at least pounds 1,000 in an instant access building society or
bank account. Postal accounts generally pay a higher rate, with the best at
present being Cheltenham & Gloucester, which offers 7 per cent gross on its
Instant Transfer Account.

Emma should also retain pounds 1,000 in Premium Bonds, giving a capital-secure
and accessible fund with all prize money being tax-free. The current prize draw
rate is 4.75 per cent net.

In addition, Emma should open a Tessa with pounds 2,000. Tessas will provide
tax-free returns over five years. The Yorkshire Building Society pays 7.65 per
cent, making it the best on offer at present and there is the added opportunity
of a windfall should it convert from its mutual status.

At Emma's age, her financial position can change rapidly. A Tessa has the added
benefit of being able to act as an extra source of liquidity in an emergency, as
the only penalty for early withdrawal is the loss of its tax-free status.

Given her views on ethical investment, Emma should put approximately pounds
4,800 of her savings into the Friends Provident Stewardship Unit Trust PEP.
This is an ethical investing unit trust that has provided good returns with a
track record going back over 10 years.

The PEP will provide a tax-free return linked to equities and, with this fund,
the manager would avoid investing in companies involved in environmental
destruction, unnecessary exploitation of animals, trade with oppressive regimes,
pornography and weapons manufacture.

As for pensions, Emma's employer makes no pension provision for her and she has
very little free cash. It is important, though, to start as early as possible.
By making small contributions now, the fund will grow more quickly later.
Hopefully, in time she can increase premiums. Emma's key considerations here
should be minimum premiums, low charges and the flexibility to stop and start
and alter contributions as necessary.

Standard Life has a flexible personal pension with a flat monthly administration
fee of pounds 2.95. But minimum premiums are pounds 40 a month, which may be too
much.  A Norwich Union personal pension can start from as little as pounds 20 a
month.  Charges are paid for by reduced allocation of premium to investment and
this has the flexibility to stop and start premium payments without penalty.

The verdict: I needed some guidance and this sounds great. I did ask Ian about a
pension and he's answered that point. On the ethical investment side, his advice
solves most of my questions. I am not too worried about permanent health
insurance, but at least I know that option is there if I need it. I seem to have
done OK on the Premium Bonds, winning pounds 50 here and there.  It is a good
idea to have some money set aside for a rainy day, plus some money in a Tessa.

If you want a free makeover, please write to: Nic Cicutti, Free Financial
Makeover, The Independent, One Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5DL.  You
must be willing for your name and photograph to appear in the paper.


LOAD-DATE: November 03, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd


                              262 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pension schemes can be introduced as part of wider benefits package;
MONEY MATTERS

BYLINE: Andrew Stallard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 793 words


Following on from last week's pensions article, we'll look in more detail here
about how you can find the best pension scheme for you and for your employees,
following the changes to workplace pensions. All company pension schemes will
need to be compliant with new government workplace pension law, but that
notwithstanding, it's really important to consider what features are desirable
for your employees and your business. The best tip we can give you when it comes
to setting up a workplace pension scheme is to look at it as part of a bigger
picture. Pensions don't have to be set up in isolation; why not bring them in as
part of a wider employee benefits scheme?

Employee benefits can include income protection, health insurance, travel
insurance, dental plans, cash plans, childcare vouchers, employee assistance
programs and health screening. As with many business decisions, the use of
professionals can help save a large amount of time and money, and our advice
would be to use a fee-based independent financial adviser who will help you
select the right combination of benefits for your scheme. An ideal scheme should
allow a good range of funds to suit the different times to retirement and
different attitudes to risk that scheme members will have. Schemes should also
have a default fund that members' payments will be made to if they don't want to
select their own funds. Access to ethical funds and cash funds (with no
investment risk) can also be an attractive feature.

If the pension scheme is not going to be actively managed by an adviser, then so
called 'life styling' funds can have an advantage. This type of fund will
gradually move money into less volatile investments (typically out of shares and
into government bonds) as the retirement date of the member approaches.

Fund performance and charges on a pension over the life time of the member can
dramatically impact the final size of a pension. Charges can generally be put
into two categories: firstly, the charges made by the pension provider for the
funds it offers and secondly, the charges made by the adviser.

As with so many things, shopping around is advisable to get the best value.
Stakeholder pension schemes usually offer the lowest price schemes and are only
allowed to charge a fixed maximum percentage; however, the usual drawback is a
restricted choice of funds.

Help yourself to find the best deal by using an independent financial adviser
who will do the research and may be able to negotiate favourable rates from
insurance companies that act as money purchase pension providers. When offering
a price for their products, insurance companies will consider the size of the
scheme in terms of number of members, total monthly contributions and possible
transfers in from existing schemes. Because small companies will not be
investing as much as larger companies, it can be more difficult to obtain
favourable terms. All good financial advisers will balance up the charges being
made by the pension funds, the quality of those funds and the degree of choice
in funds available to find the one most suitable for you. What about costs?
Historically the cost of adviser advice was not always clear, with, in many
cases, commission being taken from company schemes by the pension providers to
pay the adviser. From January 2013, the FSA will ban commission payments on
financial products sold in this way following the Retail Distribution Review
although existing schemes may continue. A pension review may help to identify
how charges are being made by your adviser and whether this is appropriate in
the future.

Finally, once you've selected a scheme, it's vital that all the details are
properly communicated to all employees. Again, you don't have to do this on your
own - part of your adviser's job in setting up a new scheme will be explaining
the importance of pension saving and the options available within the scheme to
employees.

For a free pensions review, call Worldwide on 0845 230 9876, e-mail
info@wwfp.net or take a look at our website www.wwfp.net. The value of shares
and investments can go down as well as up. Past performance is not a guide to
future performance. Follow us on Twitter: @WorldwideFP. Become a fan of
Worldwide Financial Planning on Facebook. Worldwide Financial Planning Ltd are
authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. The FSA does not
regulate credit cards, will writing and some forms of mortgage and inheritance
tax planning. Information given is for general guidance only, and specific
advice should be taken before acting on any suggestions made. All information is
based on our understanding of current tax practices, which are subject to
change. The value of shares and investments can go down as well as up.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                     Marin Independent Journal (Marin, CA)

                           November 22, 2003 Saturday

An early start

BYLINE: Beth Ashley, IJ senior feature writer

SECTION: LIFESTYLES

LENGTH: 1368 words


JENNIFER GOOTNICK talks a mile-a-minute, racing to keep up with what's on her
mind.

Born and raised in Marin, she went to college in New York City: "I'm a perfect
New Yorker," she says, explaining her intensity, her rat-a-tat speaking style.

Lately, she has applied that intensity to a charitable organizaation she dreamed
up and brought into being: the Empona Foundation, which provides free breast
exams to women who have no health insurance.

"I wanted to use my life to make a difference," she says.

Her foundation is barely a year old, but already has provided free diagnostic
services to 76 Marin women 39 and younger, and annual breast health screenings
and educational services to 213 women over 40.

Her foundation won a 2003 Espirtu award from the Isabel Allende Foundation,
which rewards work on behalf of women and girls.

Gootnick, only 25, says she has been volunteering and donating to charity since
she was 11. Her early interests: The Rain Forest Action Network and PETA [People
for Ethical Treatment of Animals]. "I love animals," she says.

While a student at the Branson School in Ross, she organized a discussion group
for students with eating disorders, she among them. "I knew we needed to have an
open forum for discussion. Just being with people who are suffering and hearing
their stories, that's when healing starts." [She no longer has a problem, she
says.] She was co-editor of the school newspaper, and a standout athlete - a
four-year starter for the soccer team, and a formidable tennis and basketball
player.

At Columbia, she taught young people who were studying for their GED [high
school equivalency diplomas], and tutored others one-on-one.

In college, she says, she had no clear career path; she loved the broad core
curriculum; her focus was philosophy. She spent six months studying at
Columbia's campus in Paris.

Graduating in 2001, she was still uncertain what she would do: She spent the
summer as a landscape gardener at Esalen and Big Sur, and taught arts-and-crafts
in a kids' summer program. "When fall came, I expected to hit the job world in a
serious way," she says.

All that was turned upside down by events of 9/11: "I was totally saddened,
because I had lived in New York and because I knew what it was like to lose
people you care about."

Wondering how to respond, she employed a strategy she had used before: "To help
me get really clear, I made a list headed 'This Is What I Want.'"

She came up with three things: "I want to use my skills, I want to be of
service, I want to feel really happy and in love with what I'm doing."

Five days later, when she was helping out in the Greenbrae office of her
doctor-mother, radiologist Susan Gootnick, "a man walked in, a complete
stranger, and asked what would happen if a woman couldn't afford a mammogram,
and he wrote me a check that would help such a woman."

It came to her instantly, she says, snapping her fingers: "Oh my God, I want to
start a foundation to provide free mammographies. It was completely
synchonistic. It's a miracle," she says.

Gootnick, with her intense blue eyes and vibrant curly hair [dark, with blond
streaks and a short pony tail ], is nothing if not dynamic.

She pulled together a tentative group of supporters, including old friend and
artist Carey Maxon, then of Larkspur; clinical social worker Caroline Lurie of
Ross; and Taira Roder, a nurse-manager at Marin Community Clinic. They met from
January through March. In February they became a California public benefit
corporation, in April they elected officers: She was president, Roder vice
president and treasurer, Lurie was secretary.

By the end of April they had enlisted Mill Valley physician Curtis Robinson as
medical director; fluent in Spanish, he had worked exensively with low income
populations.

"You state your intentions, and you keep meeting people with the same
intentions," she says. "Through word of mouth and just leading your life, you
find people who share a common interest. People came together with such ease and
grace."

Recently new board members came aboard: TV weatherman Joel Bartlett of Mill
Valley, interior designer Stephanie LeGras of San Anselmo, Smith-Barney
executive Zoe Sexton of Corte Madera, whom Gootnick met at a business networking
group in San Rafael.

Bartlett says he is "honored and very happy" to serve on the board. He learned
about Empona from Gootnick's mother, a fellow horse-riding enthusiast, "and I
thought it was a wonderful thing."

"Jennifer is very dynamic, very energetic. I can't say enough good things about
her," Bartlett says.

Susan Gootnick is now president of the Empona board: Susan herself has had a
form of breast cancer [ductal carcinoma in situ] which she chose to confront
with a bilateral mastectomy.

Susan, of course, is a huge supporter of what her daughter does.

"You don't expect to learn things from your children," Susan says. "But she has
taught me a great deal about how to live one's life. She's incredibly dynamic, a
great personality. She identifies what she wants and does it - very little gets
in her way.

"I am certain both of my children will do great things" - son Jordan, 24, has
his own computer consulting company - "but Susan has a particular bent for
helping people."

Jennifer says she has received unfaltering support from both her parents - dad
Irwin is a psychiatrist with practices in Marin and San Francisco. Until a month
ago, when she moved to San Francisco, Gootnick lived with her parents in the
Kentfield home where she grew up.

The Empona Foundation - Gootnick made up the name herself, and says it is meant
to convey empowerment and connection and healing - is focussed for the moment on
breast cancer diagnosis, treatment and detection, but Gootnick says the door is
open, sometime in the future, to "create other programs where there is a need."

Her target is "those people who have no medical insurance."

"Our mission is to connect the [uninsured] to health care, and to empower
individuals with education and support." She says just the fact of Empona's
existence "helps women know that someone cares about them, that everyone in our
community matters."

To provide free diagnostic services - which could otherwise cost a woman up to
$2,000 - she has enlisted a network of doctors, including Robinson, who provides
breast exams; her mother, who provides mammograms and ultrasound; Kentfield
surgeon Ann Vercoutere, who provides surgical consultations and biopsies; and
Paul Wasserstein of Marin Medical Labs in Greenbrae, who does the pathology.

Gootnick says much of Empona's payout goes to Vercoutere and Wasserstein; she
raises money by contacting freinds, family members and the Marin community; she
has received considerable support from Marin businesses and from the Susan B.
Komen Foundation, the Richard and Rhoda Goldman Foundation, Union Bank of
California and Allende.

The screening program for women over 40 is held at her mother's radiology
offices, 1350 South Eliseo Drive, Suite 120, on the first Saturday of each
month. Empona partners with the Marin Community Clinic for the program, which
provides mammograms and breast exams and instructs women on how to do their own
breast exams. Funding comes from a state program called Every Woman Counts.

Empona coordinates the program, for which pre-registration is required:
448-1549.

Gootnick says she has been focussed on Empona for a year and a half, but not to
the exclusion of other pursuits. She also loves to read, to date, to travel and
have a good time with friends.

"I have a lot of fun," she says. "I just happen to have a job that I will love
forever."

Among favorite books: Spirit Rock founder Jack Kornfield's "After The Ecstasy,
the Laundry," amd "Kabala," a book about Jewish mysticism.

She works out of her apartment in San Francisco - she's the executive director
of Empona - and her assistant, Scott Raymond, a longtime friend and program
director of the foundation, works out of his.

She's certain she has found the work she was supposed to do.

"Oh, my God, I love it. I mean, who knew?"

Contact Beth Ashley via e-mail at bashley@marinij.com.

Copyright and permissions

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

    Copyright 2003 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication


                              264 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Medical brokering becoming popular; Firms tout access to U.S. facilities

BYLINE: Tobi Cohen, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 843  words


A Buffalo-based company is the latest to get in on the medical brokering scheme
that's gaining ground in Canada as lengthy wait times force more and more people
south of the border for treatment.

Cross Border Access has been helping Canadians book appointments and negotiate
fees for a variety of procedures in upstate New York since May, putting a new
twist on an industry that's raising ethical questions and helping fuel the
private-public health care debate.

Unlike Canadian companies that have popped up offering similar services, this
American operation charges a $200-a-year membership fee and connects patients
directly with service providers.

Company founder Ed Meyer added his work in the American health insurance
business gives him an advantage over his Canadian competitors.

"Because of our experience in the American health care delivery system, we can
do a better job of getting good prices and screening the provider to make sure
they are qualified," he said.

Noting U.S. health care is a free-market system, the same diagnostic imaging
scan can cost anywhere from $900 to $2,000.

He said most Canadians probably wouldn't realize that when they look to the U.S.
after learning it could take months for their CT scan, cancer treatment or knee
replacement in Canada.

He's built relationships with diagnostic facilities, hospitals and physicians in
Buffalo and Niagara Falls, N.Y., and is intent on hooking up Canadians from
southwestern Ontario through the Toronto area with quality affordable care.

"We don't take any money from health-care providers in the U.S. and we don't
give any money to Canadian health-care providers who refer patients to us," he
added.

"Our only source of revenue is the membership fees from patients so we don't get
into any ethical grey areas about sending people to specific providers or
facilities because that's the best financial arrangement for us."

Among his competitors is B.C.based Timely Medical Alternatives -one of the first
and most successful brokers -which makes its money by charging a mark-up and has
recently waded into the controversial area of paying physicians for referring
patients.

Founder Richard Baker recognizes it's a "contentious subject," but noted it's
done in the best interest of patients and doctors who don't want the marketing
fee -about $1,000 for a hip replacement patient, for example -can opt to have it
donated to a medical charity of their choice.

"A lot of our business comes from doctors who refer their patients to us because
their hands are tied as far as being able to get them surgery," he said.

"It's in the patient's best interest that they get speedy surgery almost always
and . . . we're happy to pay for that."

Baker said he's helped thousands of people secure treatment since opening for
business in 2003, most of them from Alberta, B.C., Ontario and Saskatchewan.

Noting business last year has more than doubled over 2009, he's not surprised to
learn another company has emerged with a new twist on the medical brokerage
model, but insists his service is tough to beat.

He's secured partnerships with 22 facilities in 10 states -the cheapest of them
being those in the Midwest -and because he pays them directly for medical
services up front, they avoid having to fill out a lot of paperwork, are happy
to get business they would not otherwise receive and therefore give him the best
rates.

In turn, he adds a "little bit more" to the patient's final bill, though he
won't divulge the exact mark-up nor does it typically appear on a patient's
invoice.

While few up-to-date studies examining the prevalence of medical tourism among
Canadians exists, an Angus Reid poll earlier this year found 40 per cent of
Canadians said they would pay out of pocket to jump the queue and 42 per cent
would leave the country to seek treatment.

A 2008 analysis in the McKinsey Quarterly business journal pegged the global
medical tourism market at between 60,000-85,000 people and noted 40 per cent
were seeking out advanced technologies.

Among them, seven per cent were Canadian.

But support for medical tourism itself and the business of cross-border
brokerage appears split among those in the medical community.

Canadian Medical Association president Jeffrey Turnbull describes it as a
byproduct of the Canadian system failing to meet the needs of its citizens.

"As long as wait times remain as long as they are or even worsen, Canadians who
have resources will do what's best for their own particular health," he said.

"If that means going south of the border or another jurisdiction outside of
North America, they will."

While the CMA believes no Canadian should be denied health care because they
can't pay for it and ultimately supports the principles in the Canada Health
Act, Turnbull said it also supports improving competition and involving the
private sector in health care delivery.

Meanwhile, Michael McBane of the Canadian Health Coalition believes medical
brokers are "shysters" who are "exploiting vulnerable people" and who "waive"
all responsibility and liability should something go wrong.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 18, 2006 Friday

Response NHS ethics committees do not hinder medical research: It's right to put
patients first when making decisions about clinical trials, says Paddy Stevenson

BYLINE: Paddy Stevenson

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 618 words


James Randerson's article on the effect that NHS research ethics committees are
having on medical research was misleading (Ethical red tape is stifling us, say
medical researchers, August 4). It expressed the view of some researchers that
ethical safeguards brought in after the Alder Hey body-parts scandal are making
it difficult to carry out research. In fact, the changes in legislation were
brought about by the 2001 EU clinical trials directive - not a response to any
scandal - which ensured that Europe- wide standards of good clinical practice
and patient safety are paramount in clinical drug research. The UK adopted this
with the Medicines for Human Use (Clinical Trials) Regulations 2004 and, to
cover non-drug research, the Research Governance Framework 2003.

In the article, the researchers Jenny Hewison and Andy Haines said "opt-in
consent", whereby patients must give consent before they can be approached to
participate in a study, resulted in potential recruits not being identified,
hindering research. This is misleading. Without "opt in", medical researchers
would have access to a patient's clinical records to assess whether they may be
eligible to participate in a research project. For example, if researchers were
identifying participants for an HIV study, although they would have no role in
the care of the patients they would be able to read their notes, finding out
about their sexuality, sexual practices and potential drug use. This would be
done without the patient's knowledge. What we on research ethics committees
(RECs) insist on in "opt in" is that the patient's doctor first approaches them
and asks if they mind a researcher reviewing their records for a specific study.

Randerson went on to restate the myth that the new online REC application system
led to a researcher spending 40 hours completing a 64-page form. This statement
was investigated as part of Lord Warner's review into REC practice. The Warner
report (2005) refuted this claim. It is possible that a researcher would be
required to complete 64 pages, but they would need to be carrying out research
into an investigational drug, involving a new medical device, requiring the
collection of human tissue, while administering questionnaires and ionising
radiation to prisoners, who were children with learning disabilities, with a
terminal illness, in a young offenders' institution, suffering from dementia and
unable to consent themselves. Even the most committed researcher would find it
difficult to devise such a study. In fact the form automatically removes
unnecessary pages and, as an ethics-committee member who reviews eight
applications each month, I can assure you that the average application is about
20 pages.

Finally, in the article Stephen Dealler, a consultant microbiologist, claimed
researchers are bypassing RECs because it can take six months to get approval
for a study. Under the MHU regulations an REC must provide an opinion within 60
days. Failure to do so is a breach, as is failure to submit research for review;
either can lead to a fine of up to £3,000 or a jail sentence of up to three
years.

Paddy Stevenson is vice-chairman of the NHS research ethics committee for
Newcastle and North Tyneside

Paddy.Stevenson@ncl.ac.uk

The Response column offers those who have been written about in the Guardian an
opportunity to reply. If you wish to respond, at greater length than in a
letter, to an article in which you have featured either directly or indirectly,
please email response@guardian.co.uk or write to Response, The Guardian, 119
Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. We cannot guarantee to publish all responses,
and we reserve the right to edit pieces for both length and content

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Indian Banking News

                      March 20, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Aflac Named a World's Most Ethical Company for 8th Consecutive Year

LENGTH: 411  words


March 20 -- Aflac, the leading provider of voluntary insurance in the United
States and a 2013 FORTUNE Blue Ribbon Company, has been named to the Ethisphere
Institute's 2014 list of World's Most Ethical Companies. It is the eighth
consecutive year that Aflac has been included on this list. Aflac is the only
insurance company to have appeared on Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical
Companies list every year since the inception of the award in 2007.



"Appearing on Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical Company list for the 8th
consecutive year validates our belief that ethical practices are essential to
business success," Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos said. "The foundation of our
relationship with customers is trust; trust that we will pay claims quickly
during times of need. This honor reinforces the faith that customers and
shareholders place in our commitment to serve them with integrity."

"Aflac has been listed as a World's Most Ethical Company for eight years running
which demonstrates their commitment to doing business ethically and with
integrity," said the Ethisphere Institute's Chief Executive Officer, Timothy
Erblich. "Their leadership team clearly understands the correlation between
trust and better business practices which is why we are excited to recognize
them for, among other things, displaying clear leadership in reputation,
innovation and operating a robust ethics and compliance program with excellent
tone from the top. We congratulate everyone at Aflac for this extraordinary
achievement."

The World's Most Ethical Company assessment is based upon the Ethisphere
Institute's Ethics Quotient framework. The Ethics Quotient framework has been
developed over years of effort to provide a means to assess an organization's
performance in an objective, consistent and standardized way. The information
collected provides a comprehensive sampling of definitive criteria of core
competencies, rather than all aspects of corporate governance, risk,
sustainability, compliance and ethics. The Ethics Quotient framework and
methodology was determined, vetted and refined by the expert advice and insights
gleaned from Ethisphere's network of thought leaders and from the World's Most
Ethical Company Methodology Advisory Panel.

Scores are generated in five key categories: ethics and compliance program
(25%), reputation, leadership and innovation (20%), governance (10%), corporate
citizenship and responsibility (25%) and culture of ethics (20%).

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 21, 1991, Saturday

Letter: Unhealthy choice

BYLINE: From Mr D. V. M. BISHOP

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 13

LENGTH: 203 words


Sir: In a recent speech, John Major called for closer links between the NHS and
private medicine, on the grounds that this would improve consumer choice. What
he fails to realise is that most sick people do not want choice. What we want is
a health service that is efficient, easy to use, cost-effective and ethical,
where we can be confident that the standard of care in our local hospital is as
good as anywhere else.

We don't want to spend time filling in forms, shopping around for good insurance
deals, and then worrying whether our insurance covers our particular illness. We
don't want to have to pay money to cover wages and overheads of medical
insurance companies as well as the treatment we receive. We don't want to pay
inflated prices for unnecessary treatments, as inevitably happens in countries
with a free market in medical insurance. We don't want to see wealthy people get
better medical treatment than poor people.

If the NHS needs more funds, then I, for one, would rather pay more through
taxation than go down the expensive and bureaucratic path of medical insurance.
I will vote for the party that will allow me to do this.

Yours faithfully,

D. V. M. BISHOP

Didsbury, Manchester

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


                              268 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           December 15, 2016 Thursday

3 medical bodies' joint letter runs counter to SMC advisory

BYLINE: Salma Khalik

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 544 words


Three medical bodies issued a joint letter to their members yesterday to say
that in certain circumstances, they consider it acceptable to pay a percentage
of doctor's fees to third-party administrators (TPAs), which takes a position in
contradiction to an advisory sent out on Tuesday by the Singapore Medical
Council (SMC).

Though the letter did not specifically say so, the criteria under which a
percentage of fees would be appropriate would point to general practice (GP)
clinics - where fees are lower and there are fewer variations between practices
- but not specialists, where bills could vary greatly.

The three parties are the Academy of Medicine, representing specialists, the
College of Family Physicians, which speaks for primary care doctors, and the
Singapore Medical Association.

The SMC said that under the new Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines (ECEG),
which become effective next month, doctors cannot pay such agents a percentage
of the fees they get from patients. The SMC said the practice "may be construed
as a form of fee splitting", as the work done by third parties does not vary
from patient to patient, whatever the fees doctors charge for treatments.

More than 1,000 clinics in the private sector, both GPs and specialists, will be
affected by this ruling, as they have patients who are sent to them from TPAs,
especially those who represent insurers, and companies that offer medical
benefits to employees.

The letter acknowledged that fee-based payment was not a preferred method as it
might not reflect work done, and suggested as a solution a multi-tiered fixed
fee structure with a cap on fees charged.

But it added: "Nonetheless, we acknowledge that a percentage TPA fee structure
may provide a level of administrative convenience, and in very specific and
limited circumstances might not be in breach of the ECEG."

One of the two criteria to be met, they said, is that the fee should represent
"a small percentage" of the doctor's fee, without elaborating. Currently, it is
generally between 10 per cent and 25 per cent.

The other is that more than 80 per cent of bills from the practice should "fall
within a narrow range", which would apply to most GP clinics but not likely to
specialists, whose services and fees could vary greatly.

Dr Low Lee Yong, chief executive officer of TPA Make Health Connect, said: "We
hope to meet up with SMC for a dialogue on this matter since it affects the
livelihood of over 1,200 doctors in our panel."

He noted that a flat fee might - in contrast to the SMC's goal - end up pushing
up healthcare costs. "A flat fee of $5 is 25 per cent to the doctor who keeps
the healthcare cost low at $20. But it is only 5 per cent for the doctor who
charges $100," he said.

Ms Veronica Allen, chief executive officer of Parkway Shenton which has about
680 specialists and 360 GP clinics under its third-party agreements, said: "We
agree that administrative fees charged should primarily reflect the work of the
TPA and not be so high as to constitute fee splitting with the doctor."

The SMC said last night that it "appreciates the support of our professional
bodies", and repeated that fees paid must reflect actual work done by the TPA
and be transparent to the patient or payer.

facebook.com/ST.Salma

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 25, 1999 Monday

DOCTORS FACE UP TO ETHICAL DILEMMA

SECTION: MAIN; International/National Briefing; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 87 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Many physicians approve of deceiving insurance companies or health maintenance
organizations to secure payment for treatment if patients cannot get it any
other way, a survey found. The survey of 169 internists in eight cities found
that 58 percent considered it ethical to lie for a patient who needed a heart
bypass operation, and 48 percent considered it ethical to lie to get intravenous
pain medication and nutrition for a dying cancer patient. The survey, handled by
mail, posed hypothetical treatment situations.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1999 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 2, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Quorum Review's J. Claire Carbary Presents at PRIM&R's 2013 Advancing Ethical
Research Conference

LENGTH: 291  words


New Delhi, Nov. 2 -- Quorum Review IRB, the industry leader in central IRB
services, announces Regulatory Attorney J. Claire Carbary, JD, CIP, as a
presenter at the 2013 PRIM&R Advancing Ethical Research Conference. The
conference takes place November 7-9, in Boston, MA.



Ms. Carbary co-presents with J. Andy Bertolatus, Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine at The University of Iowa, and Donna A. Messner, Research Director at
Center for Medical Technology Policy. The presentation, Electronic Consent: A
Discussion of the eConsent Experience, Ethical and Regulatory Considerations and
the IRB Review Process, reviews the use of electronic consent using the iPad and
computer-based interactive approaches. Presenters examine the regulatory
requirements of IRB review and consent documentation and discuss the potential
ethical challenges of using electronic technology in streamlining the informed
consent process. The presentation takes place Saturday, November 9, at 11:15 AM
in room 102.

J. Claire Carbary regularly delivers IRB-focused presentations covering such
topics as: social media, HIPAA requirements and safety reporting. Ms. Carbary is
a member of the Northwest Association for Biomedical Research and Public
Responsibility in Medicine and Research. She received her Juris Doctor from
Seattle University in 2007, and was admitted to the Washington State Bar
Association (WSBA) in the fall of 2007.

PRIM&R's annual Advancing Ethical Research Conference is an educational event
for professionals working in the field of human subject protection. The
conference brings together over 2,500 industry professionals from hospitals,
universities, government, and other research institutions in an educational,
three-day networking opportunity.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                          September 16, 2006 Saturday

Proudly voting for Margie Ware

BYLINE: Letters

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 253 words


To the Editor of THE EAGLE:

In her debates, position papers and Web page, Margie Ware has let the voters
know, in a focused and honest way, where she stands.

Why are her supporters standing in front of schools at 6:45 a.m.? Because they
know Margie cares abut education from preschool through college. Seniors, people
with disabilities and their families know Margie has worked hard to help them
secure Medicare D benefits. Health care professionals know Margie as a co-worker
and a supporter of the single-payer initiative. Margie recognizes the
Commonwealth Health Care for All as a step in the progress towards improved
health insurance.

Margie wants to balance economic growth with environmental concerns. She has
been clear that Hill 78 should be removed and she supports wind power. From a
"political unknown" she has not only won name recognition and endorsements
(Springfield Republican) but she is now poised to win the race for state Senate.

The candidates are not of equal stature. Margie brings experience and the
ability to represent our whole district. She is ethical and professional. She
has established relationships and is skilled in developing new ones. She is an
independent thinker who knows how to be a team player. She demonstrates that you
can be a smart politician and still be an ethical public servant.

We need someone with her record of achievement, integrity and skills to
represent us in Boston. Please join me in proudly voting for Margie Ware on
Tuesday.

MARJORIE COHAN

Pittsfield, Sept. 12, 2006.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Blackpool Gazette

                              June 17, 2013 Monday

Dairy-free plea in ethical group's breakfast appeal

BYLINE: Katie Upton

LENGTH: 368  words


The world's largest animal rights organisation has approached Blackpool Council
asking it to consider the use of non-animal products in its free breakfast
scheme.

People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has written to council leader
Simon Blackburn asking him to consider providing dairy-free products for
children.

The global organisation has cited health benefits in its reasons for providing
alternatives such as soya as well as the implications on animal welfare.

PETA's Mimi Bekhechi wrote: "By offering members of the next generation a
healthy and delicious alternative to dairy products, you would also be ...
helping them to avoid other harmful side effects of milk and teaching them
empathy and compassion."

The letter cites studies which have found "milk consumption does not improve
bone health or reduce the risk of osteoporosis and actually creates other health
risks".

Ms added: "In addition to being more humane than yoghurt from cow's milk, soy,
rice, and nutbased yoghurts are generally lower in fat and calories and contain
no cholesterol.

"Furthermore, today's factory farms condemn millions of cows to sheds for most
of their lives, which not only is unethical from an animal-welfare perspective
but also has serious negative environmental effects."

Coun Simon Blackburn, leader of Blackpool Council, has responded to the
organisation saying he is "supportive" of the suggestions and will ask officers
to look into the "practicalities" of it.

He told The Gazette: "I am grateful to PETA for their letter and have replied to
them.

"I have now asked officers to look into the benefits of their suggestions."

Speaking as he announced plans to consider continuing the scheme, Coun Blackburn
said it was "not for politicians to pretend to be nutritionists" and that
decisions on the content offered would be made by council officers working with
staff from the NHS.

A final decision on the future of the scheme will be made at a Council Executive
meeting today.

Follow us on twitter {http://bit.ly/twitter_the_gazette | @The_Gazette | Follow
us on twitter @The_Gazette} and like our page on {http://bit.ly/thegazette |
facebook | Like our page on facebook} to keep up with all the latest news.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WBEG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 March 4, 2007

Your guide to ISAs: TOP ETHICAL AWARD CONTENDERS: MONEY OBSERVERS BEST ETHICAL
FUND 2007

SECTION: OBSERVER SPECIAL SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 383 words


TOP ETHICAL AWARD CONTENDERS:

Fund Where it % growth in:

invests 2006 2005 2004 2004-06

Aegon Ethical Equity UK 33 23 20 95

Old Mutual Ethical UK 25 25 22 89

Jupiter Ecology Global 28 22 16 80

Norwich Sust Future Euro Growth Europe 20 25 18 75

Standard Life UK Ethical UK 27 22 15 78

Henderson Global Care Income UK 25 19 15 70

Lipper, 1 January 2007, buying /selling charges not deducted, net income
reinvested.

MONEY OBSERVERS BEST ETHICAL FUND 2007

AEGON ETHICAL EQUITY

The tighter the criteria, the fewer shares an investment manager has to choose
from. Despite being a 'dark green' fund, Aegon Ethical Equity wins first prize
in the ethical awards category.

Manager Audrey Ryan (pictured) says the fund's negative criteria rule out
two-thirds of the FTSE All-Share index. Even so, the fund has consistently
outperformed its benchmark in recent years.

Initial screening of shares is done by EIRIS but Aegon, a life assurance
company, also has a small in-house team to double-check that shares meet all its
criteria, particularly on animal welfare. Ryan is then presented with a list of
about 400 acceptable shares. 'There are some no-go areas, such as tobacco,
aerospace and pharmaceuticals.'

Good share selection has been important. 'In 2004, two shares that did well were
Cairn Energy and Ashtead Plant Hire. Ashtead was also a strong performer in
2005, as was Paladin Resources. A key theme in 2006 was being overweight in
mining and precious metals shares.'

Ryan can still see plenty of growth opportunities in areas such as support
services and transport, and believes that mergers and acquisitions activity will
continue to benefit her sector in 2007.

The contenders for the award were 33 ethical or green funds with above-average
performance in each of the past three years.

FIND OUT MORE

Ethical Investment Research Service (020 7840 5700, www.eiris.org) publishes the
Guide to Ethical Funds , which contains summaries of each fund's ethical policy
details, its top 10 holdings and summary tables of what the funds' policies say
they avoid and/or support.

UK Social Investment Forum (UKSIF) (020 7749, 9950, www.investability.org) works
to promote socially responsible investment.

You can search for a local IFA who specialises in ethical investments at
www.moneyobserver.com , using the 'Find an IFA' service.


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 3, 2006 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

STATE REPRESENTATIVE 112TH DISTRICT

SECTION: VOTERS GUIDE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 648 words


Jay C. Hoffman

Party: Democrat

Incumbent: Yes

Age: 44

Home: Collinsville

Occupation: State representative-attorney, State of Illinois

Political experience: State representative, 112th District,1991-present

PRIORITIES:

My priorities include expanding the availability of health insurance coverage
for children and working families, prescription medication assistance and
property tax relief for seniors, providing quality education and supporting
infrastructure improvements. I helped to increase funding for schools by $3.8
billion and to make Illinois the only state in the nation to guarantee access to
preschool for every three and four year old. I have fought to make sure senior
citizens do not get priced out of their homes by supporting HB4789, which
increases tax exemptions for senior homeowners. I helped to make Illinois the
first state in the nation to guarantee health insurance coverage for all
children.

As chairman of the House Transportation Committee, I worked to secure funding
for expanding Illinois Routes 159 and 157 and Governors' Parkway, widening of
Interstate 64, completing Route 255 to Alton and re-opening McKinley Bridge.

QUALIFICATIONS:

I was elected to my first term as state representative in November of 1990,
giving me over 16 years of experience as a state representative. After just four
years in office, I was promoted to floor leader for the Illinois House
Democrats. Other honors I have received include the Legislator of the Year from
the Illinois Hospital Association (1992), Outstanding Legislator from the
Illinois States Attorney's Association (1994 and 2003), Illinois Public
Transportation Association Legislator of the Year (2002), George Lanxon Award
(2004), RCGA Lewis & Clark Statesman Award (2001, 2003, 2004 and 2005), St.
Louis Children's Hospital State Advocate of the Year Award (2005) and Award for
Outstanding Contributions to the Veterans of Illinois.

Currently, I am the Chairman of the Transportation and Motor Vehicles Committee
and serve on the committees of Judicial I (Civil Law), Labor and Worker's
Compensation and Unemployment (sub-Chairperson).

Carol Kugler

Party: Republican

Incumbent: No

Age: 61

Home: Collinsville

Occupation: Retired teacher

Political experience: Never elected to public office

PRIORITIES:

The issues that concern me the most and which I believe legislators have the
power and ability to do something about are:

1. School funding and property taxes, which go hand in hand and need to be dealt
with as one issue. I would rewrite the school funding formula so that the state
takes more responsibility for funding the school with our income tax tax and
sales tax dollars so that our property taxes would be lower. The state also
needs to stop funding pork projects and special interests until it can fulfill
its obligations such as school funding, medicaid payments and pension payments.

2. Make Illinois more business and job friendly by reducing the fees and taxes
enacted in the last four years and by reinstating incentives that have been
eliminated.

3. Continue to clean up our courts.

4. Resoring public ethics.

QUALIFICATIONS:

The special qualifications I have are that I am ethical; I have three degrees in
education in administration; I have been a life-long leader in the classroom and
directing choirs; I am a moderate and bi-partisan and I have a knack for getting
people to work together for the common good. In my opinion, there is no
profession that prepares one for public office as well as that of teaching as it
demands being adept at public speaking; public relations; organization; being a
self-starter; working long hours without extra pay and being able to multi-task.

My approach to this office would be different because I would be ethical,
honest, bipartisan and working for the good of my constituents rather than for
my own self aggrandizement or special interest groups.

Thomas "Tom" Holbrook Is unopposed.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 Photo - Jay C. Hoffman Photo - Carol Kugler

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 7, 1996 Saturday

INVESTING PRO'S PICKS  Ethical investing has big rewards

BYLINE: BY ANDREW ALLENTUCK Special to The Globe and Mail; SPCL

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS; Pg. B20

LENGTH: 847 words


QUINN Bamford, 64, has run Investors Group Inc.'s Summa Fund since 1989. He
describes his investing style as "eclectic -- a blend of looking for value and
growth."

The fund is up 32.4 per cent for the year ended Nov. 30, slightly more than the
31.9-per-cent rise of the Toronto Stock Exchange 300 index. That's not bad for
an ethical fund excluded from investing in about half the TSE stocks.

Summa Fund cannot invest in alcohol or tobacco companies, casinos or products
related to gambling, firms making weapons systems, companies that turn out
pornography or firms that pollute or aid repressive governments.

The fund has ranked in the first or second quartiles of Canadian equity fund
performance for three of the past five years. And it's been the best performer
of Investors' four equity funds for the past two years.

This fund is more volatile than other Canadian equity funds, mutual fund expert
Gordon Pape says. That higher volatility results from the lack of
diversification caused by its ethical constraints.

The fund had $147-million in assets as of Nov. 30. It had 28.7 per cent in
consumer stocks, 23.1 per cent in interest-sensitive issues, 25.7 per cent in
cyclicals, 16.5 per cent in natural resources and 5.9 per cent in cash.

Summa Fund's top holding is Thomson Corp. (TOC--TSE, 52-week high $31.30, low
$17.75, yesterday's close $28. The fund paid about $16.22 for the stock). Mr.
Bamford regards Thomson, which owns The Globe and Mail, as a value play.

"It was ignored in the marketplace for a long time until earnings rose. Now it
is more in the hands of the momentum players. I like the emphasis Thomson is
putting on its huge data base business."

Summa Fund has three chartered banks in its top 10 holdings. "The group has done
very well," he says. "People who think banks are cheap are looking at much
higher U.S. ratios of price to earnings, but I see it differently. I tend to
think that the group is fairly valued."

He also owns Aflac Inc. (AFL--NYSE, high $44 (U.S.)low $27.12, closed yesterday
at $41.37, average cost $26.08), a U.S. life insurance company that specializes
in writing cancer policies in Japan.

"It's a cash cow with high growth," Mr. Bamford says. "It has a huge share
buyback in progress and is still priced at 17 times earnings, which is modest
for a growth company. The firm expects to grow its business at nearly 20 per
cent a year."

A special holding is BCE Inc. (BCE--TSE, high $68.95 (Canadian), low $44.25,
close $63.85, average cost $44.48), which has soared in part because it's the
parent of Northern Telecom Ltd. Northern Telecom does business in Myanmar -- a
repressive regime -- and can't be in Summa Fund's portfolio. But BCE, which owns
51.5 per cent of Northern Telecom's stock, is acceptable, Mr. Bamford says.

While comfortable with his principal holdings, the fund manager plans to add to
his current positions in banks, which he expects to thrive while interest rates
stay low. "I'll buy banks on weakness," he says.

Housing-related companies will also do well in a low-interest-rate climate, Mr.
Bamford says. On his short list of housing-sector firms is Maax Inc. (MXA--ME,
high $18, low $8.55, close $17.75, average cost $9.60), which makes bath and
shower units. It has received an important Japanese contract, the first in that
country, he says.

"I see the firm growing in the U.S. and becoming an internationally known
manufacturer that will get more market recognition."

Mr. Bamford also likes Richelieu Hardware Ltd. (RCH--TSE, high $8.75 low $6.65,
close $7.40, average cost $7.79), which makes door and cabinet hardware. "It is
undervalued," he says. "Its parent firm sold out in August, and the market has
taken time to absorb the shares. Now the stock should do better and will
outperform the market."

A special situation stock he likes is Breed Technologies Inc. (BDT--NYSE, high
$28.38 (U.S.), low $16, close $26.12, average cost $26). Breed makes "smart" air
bags for cars that, when they are inflated, can sense the weight and position of
occupants and where a car has been struck.

As well, Mr. Bamford says, Breed is one of the world's largest makers of
steering wheels. "There will be consolidation in the air bag business and this
firm will either do the consolidating or be taken over at a premium."

Bottom Line

Mr. Bamford expects Summa Fund's stocks to prosper. "We are in a Goldilocks
economy with low interest rates, reasonable growth and modest inflation. If
there are no major policy shifts in taxation or the money supply, then the bull
market will continue."

Investors Summa Fund

Top 10 holdings at Nov. 30, 1996

Thomson Corp            2.6%
BCE Inc                 2.5
Royal Bank of Canada    2.4
Bank of Nova Scotia     2.3
AFLAC Inc               2.3
Pembridge Inc           2.3
A.L. Van Houtte Ltee    2.2
Telus Corp              2.2
CIBC                    2.2
Franco-Nevada Mining    2.0

Assets: $147-million
   1-year return to Oct. 31: 27.4%
   TSE 300 total return to Oct. 31: 28.3%
   Median return of Canadian equity funds to Oct. 31: 25.7%
Source: Investors Group Inc., Globe HySales

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1996 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Metropolitan Corporate Counsel

                                  January 2009
                               Northeast Edition

Letter From Lewis Tesser, Director Of The NYCLAEthics Institute

SECTION: Pg. 47 Vol. 17 No. 1

LENGTH: 737 words


To The Readers Of The Metropolitan Corporate Counsel:

Ethics Institute Established At NYCLA

This fall, NYCLA established the NYCLA Ethics Institute, offering monthly CLE
programs emphasizing how to deal with the ethical questions arising in diverse
practice areas. The Institute's Board of Advisors comprises judges, academics,
disciplinary committee members and practitioners, each of whom will play a key
role in contributing to the programs.

The Institute was launched at a reception where program chairs Andral Bratton
and Alan Friedberg, First Department Disciplinary Committee, and Gordon Eng,
Debevoise & Plimpton, conducted a program, The Disciplinary Concept in New York.
The inaugural Ethics Institute program was Confronting Ethical Issues Arising
During Litigation, chaired by Robert Kelner, Kelner & Kelner, and myself.
Hypotheticals focused on issues in commercial litigation, e-discovery and
contested matrimonial disputes. Program Chairs Michael Ross and Pery Krinsky,
Law Offices of Michael S. Ross, and Hon. Laura Ward, NYC Criminal Court,
participated in the November panel, The Search for the Truth: Zealous Advocacy
vs. Zealous Ethics in Criminal Law, which also included Elliott Jacobson, U.S.
Attorney's Office, Jeffrey Schwartz, Esq.; and Gerald Shargel, Esq. Attendees
from the criminal defense bar, Legal Aid, prosecutors, DA's, court attorneys and
a criminal court judge discussed the compelling issues relating to aggressive
representation. In December, Professor Richard Abel, UCLA Law School, drew on
three chapters of his book, Lawyers in the Dock, for Learning Legal Ethics from
New York Disciplinary Proceedings. Course materials were posted on NYCLA's
website for download before the program, which was interactive and focused on a
discussion of how and why lawyers betrayed the trust of clients, adversaries and
the legal system.

Upcoming Programs

On January 29, the Institute will offer Dealing with Ethical Issues Confronting
Matrimonial Attorneys, chaired by Stephen I. Silberfein, Esq., and on February
12, the program will be Ethical Issues in Tax Practice, chaired by L. William
Fishman, McCarthy Fingar LLP. Panels of practitioners and ethicists in both
programs will use a series of hypotheticals to explore the myriad of issues
lawyers face in these two practice areas.

Most Ethics Institute programs will be available in NYCLA's Audio Reference
CD/DVD Library or downloadable through NYCLA's online course offerings on
Lawline.com (www.lawline.com).

NYCLA's Professional Ethics Committee

NYCLA was the nation's first bar association to issue ethics opinions and its
Professional Ethics Committee has issued advisory opinions on many subjects.
Recent opinions concern diverse issues. Opinion 738 discussed the question of
searching inadvertently sent metadata in opposing counsel's electronic
documents. Although authority is divided, the Opinion concluded that the search
was impermissible. Opinion 739 concluded that fees for specialized counsel
retained to negotiate a plaintiff's complex Medicare, Medicaid or private health
insurance lien may be charged to a settlement as a disbursement under certain
conditions. Opinion 740 considered whether an attorney described as a "partner"
must be a partner under New York partnership law and the relevant partnership
agreement.

Last year, Opinion 737 garnered widespread comment for its discussion of whether
there were any circumstances under which a non-government attorney could use an
investigator who would dissemble in an investigation. While it is generally
unethical for a non-government lawyer to utilize and/or supervise an
investigator who will employ dissemblance in an investigation, under certain
exceptional conditions, dissemblance by a non-attorney investigator supervised
by an attorney is ethically permissible. For example, to obtain evidence of
unlawful housing discrimination, it may be necessary to use "testers" posing as
potential tenants or purchasers.

The NYCLA Ethics Institute and its Professional Ethics Committee are examples of
NYCLA's resolve to remain on the cutting edge in serving the needs of the legal
community.

Lewis Tesser

Lewis Tesser, a founding partner of Tesser, Ryan & Rochman, LLP, is also a
member of the NYCLA Board of Directors. Bari Chase, director of NYCLA's CLE
Institute, assisted in the preparation of this article.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 Metropolitan Corporate Counsel
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Rear Window

BYLINE: Edited by Andrew Main

SECTION: MARKET WRAP; Rear Window; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1064 words


BHP banks on sustainable PR

It's an age-old marketing ploy: take a hip event, associate your business with
it, hope it wears off and makes you hip too. The world's biggest miner, BHP
Billiton, showed it's on top of the strategy by sponsoring the Australian
Sustainability Awards held in Sydney this week.

By all accounts, BHP is the most ethical company in Australia as most so called-
ethical fund managers invest large chunks of their portfolio in the miner.
Critics may point out one or four small chinks in BHP's ethical armour: uranium
and coal operations; environmental fallout from its notorious Ok Tedi copper
mine in Papua New Guinea; and its unwillingness to sever ties with controversial
explorer Tigris Petroleum in Iraq.

But BHP was modest enough to disqualify itself from winning the Sustainable
Company of the Year Award, which, for the record, went to Insurance Australia
Group. In a nice twist, BT Financial Group won the Ethical Fund of the Year
Award. Its largest investment, by far, according to June 30 data, is BHP
Billiton.

Move over Guinness, Coopers is on the way

Adelaide's Coopers Brewery is taking on Guinness and other Irish brews in their
home territory, with plans to ship its stout and ales to the Emerald Isle.

It's already gained a small foothold there with sales via agents in Britain and
Belgium. But now an Irish distributor, World Beers, has called for more, and
Coopers has shipped off its first container load of 1000 cases to Dublin.

Export manager Terry Miniken says the company has been "a bit surprised" by the
order but hopes to send six containers a year to Ireland, to quench the
legendary thirsts.

There's been a "generational change" in tastes, he says, with Ireland's healthy
economy helping the premium beer sector to grow strongly. Coopers will put its
Sparkling Ale and Pale Ale into the market as well. Chairman Glenn Cooper,
cheering the move from a twilight race meeting at Adelaide's Victoria Park
yesterday, agreed it was a little odd that Irish drinkers should opt for an
Australian stout, first brewed in Adelaide in the 1860s.

But he's not going to argue - a lot of people in Australia's wine industry would
love to be in his situation.

Cousins' ripping yarn

Geoff Cousins, who turns 64 tomorrow, is something of a dark horse. The former
adman and John Howard's new man on the Telstra board has been beavering away on
a business thriller, a fictional yarn woven around a battle of wills between the
chairman, CEO and principal shareholder of a large Sydney-based public company
involving a fair amount of skulduggery. All familiar territory to Cousins.
Published by Allen & Unwin and due out in July, The Butcher Bird is said to be
shaping up as a bestseller. His wife, Darleen Bungey, (sister of Pulitzer
Prize-winning author Geraldine Brooks) has been tapping away too. Her biography
of Arthur Boyd, to be published by Allen & Unwin probably in October, is tipped
to be a ripper.

Zurich CEO scores with lunch guests

Retiring Zurich Australia CEO Tom Brown had a bit of fun in Sydney yesterday
getting lunchers to guess how many times the Zurich logo appeared in a series of
clips from football's A-League, which Zurich sponsors. Most diners focused on
the advertising hoardings around the pitch, and were a bit startled to discover
that the total was about twice what they had counted. Maybe you had to look
closely but the difference was that the referees have the logo on each sleeve
and the ref is in almost every shot, or should be. Brown retires on December 31,
to be replaced by a bloke with an equally memorable name, David Smith.

Location, location, location . . .

Cinemagoers in Serbia and Montenegro have reportedly been falling about laughing
at the representation of Montenegro in the James Bond movie Casino Royale.

In true Bond style there are lots of expensive cars and a very grand-looking
eponymous casino, whereas in fact the capital of Montenegro, Podgorica, is a
sleepy place struggling to recover from decades of Stalinist architecture.

Most of the casino scenes were filmed in the Czech Republic, with a century-old
spa in Karlovy Vary being used to represent the casino. The Grandhotel Pupp in
Karlovy Vary is portrayed as the "Hotel Splendide". It's not Montenegro's fault
that its architecture never reached the Belle Epoque heights of Karlovy Vary, in
what until 1919 was called Bohemia. One cruel test you can do is Google "hotels"
and "Podgorica" and see what it dishes up.

If you can see a Daimler limousine or a Bentley in the photographs you'll be
doing better than we did. Then again, the place we tripped over appeared to list
rooms at between EUR80 and EUR115 ($134 to $193) a night, well below what any
Hotel Splendide might charge. We say "appeared" because the website's only in
what we think is Serbian.

Not a shaggy dog story

Greyhound racing news. In case you still wondered what happened to dogs with a
duff win rate, a builder in northern England is facing legal action over his
dispatch of some 10,000 greyhounds on his property. Not for killing them - he
used a captive bolt gun, which is regarded as humane - but for depositing
non-specific waste on his property without a licence.

David Smith of Seaham, County Durham, is on the receiving end of a private
prosecution from the UK Environment Agency after police said there was nothing
they could charge him with. He had been asking Â£10 ($25) a time which produces
some interesting arithmetic if you multiply it by the number of dogs he
allegedly sent to chase the Tin Hare in the Sky. "This has caused me a lot of
distress, a massive amount," the Press Association quotes him as saying. "I've
been told not to talk about it and everything is with the RSPCA and the police.
I'm devastated by all of this."

Bye-bye to the rare baiji

The stable door award has to go to the Chinese government, which set aside a
lake in Hubei province to protect the highly endangered baiji, a freshwater
dolphin. According to Reuters, unfortunately a recent six-week Yangtze River
expedition involving two boats and 30 scientists failed to find any. The last
sighting was in 2004 and the last captive baiji, Qi Qi, died in 2002.
"Unfortunately, the baiji is functionally extinct. We did not see any animals in
the river," said expedition spokesman August Pfluger, who saw one in 1997.
Development, overfishing and shipping have been blamed for the demise of the
species.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON: By Rod Clement

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2006 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 10, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Should I Lie About My Beliefs to Get Health Insurance?;
Opinion

BYLINE: HILLARY ROSNER

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1342 words



HIGHLIGHT: I could save thousands by joining a faith-based plan. But I would
have to denounce gay marriage and women's right to an abortion.


Boulder, Colo. - HERE'S an ethical dilemma. If you could save your family more
than $8,000 next year simply by signing a statement affirming belief in
principles you find repugnant, would you?

It sounds absurd. But in fact that's the position I'm in this week, thanks to a
loophole in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as
Obamacare. My health insurance poses a financial hardship to my family. All I
have to do to lower my yearly bills by thousands of dollars is use my John
Hancock to denounce gay marriage and a woman's right to control her reproductive
destiny.

By Dec. 15, like many Americans, I need to choose a new health insurance plan
for 2017. I am a freelance journalist and editor. My husband runs a small
business that pays him a salary but no benefits. We are among the millions of
Americans who, under the Affordable Care Act, buy individual insurance through
an increasingly expensive and inadequate marketplace. Since the law went into
effect, monthly premiums for my family of three have already more than doubled,
from $450 a month to $930. (In Colorado, my home state, 2017 rates are on
average 20 percent higher than they were in 2016; in some counties that number
is 40 percent.) On top of that, high deductibles mean we pay for nearly
everything ourselves. In 2016, between monthly premiums and out-of-pocket costs,
we've spent roughly $20,000 on health care.

Our new plan, the fourth in four years, is being discontinued, so we must again
seek new insurance. We don't qualify for federal subsidies. I've got six months
of 2015 insurance premiums accruing interest on a credit card, and a $4,200 bill
for a four-hour emergency room visit sits menacingly on my desk. The number of
insurers offering individual plans in Colorado, as in many other states, has
dwindled; there are now only three companies - Anthem, Cigna and Kaiser - left
in our ZIP code. (In 14 Colorado counties, there is only one provider offering
plans.) Only one of our longtime doctors participates in any of these 2017
A.C.A.-plan networks.

I support the Affordable Care Act. Before it took effect, my husband was once
denied coverage on the grounds that he'd seen a doctor for a sinus infection; I
was charged hundreds of dollars above the quoted rate because of a long-ago
surgery with no lasting health impacts. I know people whose lives the Affordable
Care Act has transformed, friends with pre-existing conditions that had made
them uninsurable but who now can get the coverage they need. My support for the
law comes from a belief that access to affordable health care should be an
undeniable right. But the battle to get it passed produced a deeply, perhaps
fatally, flawed law - and on a personal level, my quality of life has declined
under the A.C.A.

There are now a growing number of theoretically less expensive health care
options that don't comply with the Affordable Care Act. I could, for instance,
join a local membership-based primary care provider clinic - around $200 a month
for a family of three - and combine it with a similarly priced
catastrophic-coverage plan. But these options still leave gaps in your coverage,
and subject you to a fine for not carrying proper insurance - up to 2.5 percent
of your adjusted gross income.

There is, though, one more option available to me. For only $500 a month - a
saving of $8,400 a year in premiums over the Anthem plan we are considering - I
could purchase coverage through a "faith-based plan" called Altrua HealthShare.
Officially known as "health care sharing ministries," such plans are not,
strictly speaking, insurance. According to the Alliance of Health Sharing
Ministries, "The purpose of the ministry is simply to organize other people who
voluntarily choose to help fellow members pay their medical bills in keeping
with biblical commands to 'share one another's burdens.' "

But in practice, the ministries serve much the same function as insurance.
Members pay a monthly contribution, they are subject to an annual deductible (in
this case, $1,000 per person) and their doctor submits a claim and is reimbursed
by the plan.

Faith-based plans do not adhere to the same rules as Obamacare insurance plans.
They don't have to pay for preventive care, they may not insure smokers, they
may not cover pre-existing conditions, and they may deny you admission based on
your weight. If you are a 5-foot-6 woman and weigh more than 230 pounds, for
instance, Altrua HealthShare won't offer you membership. Unlike the other
non-A.C.A.-compliant options, though, health care sharing ministries are
actually exempt from the law. (These organizations have to meet certain
requirements, and must have been in existence continuously since 1999.) That
means if you sign up for one, you aren't subject to the fines.

While some health sharing ministries require membership in a Christian
congregation, Altrua HealthShare does not. My family's doctors all participate
in its extensive network. According to its guidelines, membership "is based on a
religious tradition of mutual aid, neighborly assistance and burden sharing."
Sounds promising. Membership, Altrua's brochure continues, "is specifically
tailored for individuals who maintain a healthy lifestyle, make responsible
choices in regards to health and care, and believe in helping others." I bike,
hike and practice yoga; I'm a longtime vegetarian; I've never smoked. And who
doesn't believe in helping others?

Here's the catch. In order to join, you have to agree to a "statement of
standards." Among the list of seven principles are these three: "According to
the Word of God, sexual relations outside the bond of marriage is morally
wrong." "Marriage is a bond between a man and woman only." "Abortion is wrong,
except in a life-threatening situation to the mother."

I disagree with each of these. And the last I checked, premarital sex, same-sex
marriage and abortion were legal in the United States. Still, I considered
consenting to the "standards" for the sake of my family's financial situation.
Imagine if we could put money away for college tuition, or pay down our credit
card debt, instead of sending thousands to a giant corporation. What if I
swallowed my principles and sent a contribution to Planned Parenthood as
penance?

But in the end, I simply couldn't do it. Much like many of these ministries'
members, I believe certain principles are sacred. (Altrua won't pay maternity
benefits if the pregnancy arose through "adultery or fornication by the
member.") For those on the religious right, their beliefs grant them exemption
from federal law, and access to decent affordable health care. Unfortunately,
there's no such loophole for clean-living, charitable nonbelievers.

So next week, I will sign up for a plan that costs nearly $1,200 a month and
that will still pay for next to none of my family's medical needs. I will have
to part ways with the O.B. practice whose doctors saw me through a complicated
pregnancy and delivered my son healthy. Because I hold one set of beliefs about
right and wrong, I am subject to federal law. If I subscribed to a different set
of morals, I would be exempt from its clutches.

Roughly 625,000 people belonged to health sharing ministries as of September;
that number is sure to rise as people like me balk at their diminishing options.
As Republicans grapple with the Affordable Care Act, it would be wise for them
to keep in mind that, like it or not, America is composed of people with
different backgrounds, ethnicities and beliefs. The answer is not to repeal the
law, which could result in more than23 million Americanslosing their coverage.
The answer is to find solutions that allow all working families to find
affordable health care that doesn't demand choosing between their ethics and
their ability to provide for their children.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for theOpinion Today newsletter.

Hillary Rosner is a freelance journalist who reports about the environment.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY ADAM MAIDA)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                              May 26, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Mumbai Mirror

Doctors with borders

BYLINE: Altaf Patel

SECTION: DR ALTAF PATEL

LENGTH: 789 words


Cultural differences play a big role in how societies respond to daily
challenges. This is true of physicians as well.

Ethical, cultural and social values vary from race to race, and in different
countries. Recently, the Daily Mirror reported about two English pensioners -
man and wife - living at Heathrow Airport after they lost their house due to
financial distress. In a short time, the public donated 9,000 pounds for them.
In a country like the United Kingdom, the proverbial basics of roti, kapda and
makan are taken care of by the government. The social system is such that people
out of a job are even paid a living allowance and the National Health Service
provides for all medical eventualities. If only these altruistic lot knew how
many people live on the streets of Mumbai.

Here's one question that comes up: If ethical and socio-cultural values vary
from place to place, is the same true for the medical fraternity as well?

There exist many studies which compare and contrast the views of American
physicians with their European counterparts. (I found no such conclusive report
on Indian doctors.) Certain interesting differences between American and
European Physician exist. If the doctors are convinced that a procedure will
help you, do they downplay the risks? In the US this is true, but not so in
Europe.

Doctor responses vary on the issue of life support. This is an issue which poses
a natural dilemma for the treating physician. European physicians (25 per cent
of them) feel that under the current system, life support must be withdrawn too
soon. In India, many factors go into making this decision. Much of it revolves
around financial constraints of the family of the un-revivable patient. At some
point of time, the relatives ask if continuing with expensive life support might
alter their loved one's condition. Such decisions are difficult, in a way only
those who have to make them might understand. As for me, I ask two or three of
my colleagues for their independent evaluations before taking a final call.

The notion of physician-assisted suicide remains a hot topic of discussion. In
India, physicians are not pro-assistance. Certain states in the United States
have the legislation to assist patients if they are dying. Countries in Europe
allow doctors to prescribe but not administer lethal drugs.

Occasionally, an arguably harmless error in treatment may occur during therapy.
European physicians tend to keep this to themselves but an American doctor tends
to discuss it with the patient. I'd say their Indian counterparts tend not to
discuss it unless confronted, often brushing it off as inconsequential. Almost
25 per cent of European doctors say that it causes the patient unnecessary
anxiety - some even feel that they should discuss the situation with their
insurance company before acting.

Another interesting area is the use of placebos. It is true that many Indian
doctors prescribe such drugs, and that many patients are happy with the result.
Doctors in the USA are more likely to administer placebos, as compared to the
ones in UK.

Now for the million dollar question: Do physicians hide away discouraging
details of a terminal illness to bolster the patient's confidence? It is
important to realise that this is often a difficult stand to take. Obviously,
the exact situation is explained to the relatives. But often, even the patient
needs to be in the know so he can make a crucial financial decision. The wise
way, in my opinion, is to gently remind the patient that life is full of
uncertainties - even I, the doctor, in my state of fair health, have drawn up a
will as there is always an off-hand chance of unpredictable death.

The subject of health insurance is very delicate and many doctors believe that
patients with unhealthy lifestyles involving smoking, excessive intake of food,
should pay more for health insurance. Others feel that such payments are
unnecessary and rightly point out that, by that logic, someone might have to pay
for a poor genetic profile.

And then there's the matter of making paid appearances. Many pharmaceutical
companies routinely ask doctors to do so. In my opinion, this is necessary given
the time and effort the doctor expends in researching the subject on which he is
to deliver a lecture. Besides, most doctors are confident that their services
would continue to be uninfluenced by the money or gifts received for agreeing to
such speaking engagements.

Physicians' attitudes do differ in various countries. What is considered crass
in some cultures is acceptable in others. What is important is to deal with the
situation on a case to case basis, mining for, and doling out exact information
without undue anxiety.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 20, 2000

Tobacco companies under fire;Report attacks lack of ethics in marketing style
adopted by cigarette firms

BYLINE: Rory Watson European Correspondent, Brussels

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 673 words


ACTION needs to be taken to control the absence of ethical qualms in tobacco
industry marketing, according to a report to be presented to MEPs this week.

Professor Gerard Hastings, of Strathclyde University, a co-author of the study,
said: "What is most shocking is the complete absence of any ethical qualms
whatsoever. All that matters to them is how close to the wind they are sailing
and how to bend the rules."

The study - based on confidential, internal strategy papers detailing how
cigarette companies cynically try to increase their sales - is being used by
health campaigners to persuade the European Union to adopt even tougher anti
-tobacco legislation.

It has been prepared by the British Medical Association and the Centre for
Tobacco Control Research (CTCR).

The authors hope it will convince MEPs to support robust legislation on the
manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products when they examine the
Bill on Wednesday.

The draft measures would introduce effective and informative health warnings on
cigarette packets, end misleading tobacco labelling implying health benefits,
require full details of tobacco additives, reduce tar content, and introduce
limits on carbon monoxide and nicotine.

Supporters of the Bill hope it will help reduce the 120,000 people in the UK and
the half a million in the EU who die every year from smoking.

The investigation is based on advice given to tobacco firms from the five main
agencies responsible for tobacco advertising in the UK, which they were forced
to hand it over to the House of Commons health committee. It examines how
tobacco companies target young smokers and use packaging and design to convey
the impression that certain brands of cigarettes have health benefits.

In a study on smoking behaviour and lifestyles, Rothmans (UK) Marketing said:
"Young adult smokers are also searching for an identity. Cigarettes have a key
role to play as they are an ever-present statement of identity."

The same memo maintained: "Young adult smokers are looking for reassurance that
they are doing the right thing, and cigarettes is no exception. Any break with a
brand's heritage must be carefully considered in order not to throw doubt into
the minds of young adult smokers."

A creative brief for Benson and Hedges Special Filter in 1997 advised: "Remember
this campaign has its origins in a very simple truth, the smokers of B&H when
they put their pack on the pub table, will always have it noticed by their
friends. It is their badge and all we are trying to do is celebrate it."

Having identified its target market, the tobacco lobby uses all forms of
communication, not just advertising, to approach it, claims the report. It cites
a list of ideas submitted by one agency.

"Quality and stylish packaging, strong PR coverage, controlled editorial
coverage - ie advertorials, product placement at relevant events etc, peer
groups endorsement - controlled at first, investment in distribution, premium
pricing," it said.

The prospect of a Labour Government led another to suggest: "Undermine (Tessa)
Jowell, position her as the Minister of Ban, undemocratic and rash/hasty
decisions. Undermine other supporters eg. Branson (cite connections with
Rizla/Virgin)."

The authors note that whether some of the suggestions make it to market or not
is beside the point. "What emerges is a world in which every idea, every device
is harnessed to meet company needs: more smoking by more people. Removing
advertising only scratches the surface of this activity," they point out.

Professor Hastings, who is also the CTCR's director, said: "Legislation is a
start. But the main lesson from the documents is that this is a process, not a
one-off action.

"No one law will stop it. They are very powerful and well resourced companies
which use everything to increase their market. We must get the public to
understand that the tobacco industry is reprehensible and needs reining in,
especially when it targets the young."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: targeted: Tobacco companies are marketing their products without any
ethical qualms, say the authors of a report to be presented to MEPs

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              281 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday
                                 Metro Edition

Readers Write

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion Exchange; Pg. 2OP

LENGTH: 1255 words


LETTER OF THE DAY: Vikings coaching staff never gave Herschel a chance to shine

I admit I am biased. I graduated from the University of Georgia, and have always
been a Herschel Walker fan. So when I moved to Minnesota in 1989, and Walker
quickly followed, I was ecstatic. But I quickly realized that the trade was
tragically flawed -- not because the Vikings gave up too much for Walker, but
because the coaches were clueless as to how to use this enormously talented
athlete.

He had world-class speed. His rushing prowess spoke for itself, with many
records to his name. And not only could he run, he could catch! His 76 pass
receptions as a Dallas Cowboy in 1986 set a team record.

So don't just blame Mike Lynn and Les Steckel for this bad trade, as an Oct. 11
article suggests -- head coach Jerry Burns deserves equal dishonor in this
travesty. He simply didn't know how to use Walker.

Brett Favre is lucky: The Vikings didn't give up their future for him; in the
beginning expectations were mixed about this 40-year-old; he is surrounded by
talented teammates -- and the coaches have the right ideas about how to use his
talent.

KEITH MILLER, Shoreview

HEALTH CARE REFORM

Pawlenty's proposal will come at a cost

The governor wants to allow citizens to buy health insurance from companies in
other states, saying it will cost them less. Minnesotans have to keep a few
things in mind when they see (presumably) lower premiums.

Minnesota companies have to be nonprofit; companies in other states are out to
make a profit. And insurance companies have groups of preferred, or in-network
providers, who accept their fee schedules and keep costs down. Don't expect
every Minnesota physician to apply (for a fee, of course) to become a provider
for every plan based outside of the state.

Using out-of-network providers results in higher deductibles and a higher
percentage of out-of-pocket costs for holders of these policies. Bottom line,
read the fine print before you become elated at the "lower cost."

ROBERT GJERTSON, FRIDLEY

VIKINGS WANT A STADIUM

Wilf should follow the lead of the L.A. group

The California Legislature has authorized the building of a new 75,000-seat
football stadium near Los Angeles that will be built entirely with private
money. The search will be on for an NFL team to move there. One such team could
be the Vikings.

If that can be done there, why can't (or won't) the Wilf organization do the
same thing and recruit some of its rich friends to invest in a stadium here
rather than wanting Minnesota taxpayers to foot part of the bill?

It seems to me that would be an easier and quicker solution toward getting a new
stadium built here.

BRIAN MARSH, SPRING LAKE PARK

---

Hurrah for Nick Coleman and his Oct. 11 column questioning the wisdom of
building a new stadium!

Yes, Minnesotans are enjoying the great start by the Vikings, and, yes, Brett
Favre has become a "savior" for the team! But do these feelings of glory justify
the building of another new stadium and the spending of billions of dollars?

I couldn't help but notice the letter on the opposite page written by Cathy
Maas, the Minnetonka food shelf director. She noted the increase in business at
our local food shelves. The need to feed families is so great now that a week
doesn't goes by without some form of appeal for help! People are hungry and
others are struggling to stay in their homes.

With this in mind, how can our governor and the billionaire owner of the Vikings
even consider asking for another new stadium?

ROBERTA CHARGO, GOLDEN VALLEY

`BURNED BY A BABY BROKER'

Hibbs' situation is not indicative of adoptions

As adoptive parents we are extremely disappointed in the lack of fair and
responsible journalism you displayed in the Oct. 11 article "Burned by a baby
broker." While Suann Hibbs' situation may be unfortunate, this is clearly not
the norm for international adoptions. The article neglected to cover the fact
that in Minnesota most adoptions occur through fair, ethical and established
programs.

For example, with the large number of Minnesota adoptions happening each year,
why did the Star Tribune fail to feature some of the largest and most
established agencies? Minnesota has many international adoptions each year for a
reason: agencies such as Lutheran Social Services and Children's Home Society
and Family Services, etc.

Anyone who knows anything about adoption would hardly say a woman who runs an
adoption agency out of her home with no social work experience is representative
of "most" adoptions. This situation of "baby brokering" is clearly not a normal
situation. To write of such things as if they were the only way adoptions happen
devastates the majority of families who go through the proper (rigorous/ethical)
channels to make an adoption complete.

HOLLY AND Dave Willis, Minneapolis

---

Adoption is a challenging ethical matter, but one matter in the Oct. 11 article
is clear: Suann Hibbs is hoping for the arrival of children who appear to be in
the custody of their grandmother. The outcome that Hibbs seems to desire is for
those children to be taken from their grandmother's custody in order to fulfill
a promise made to Hibbs. From the perspective of the children's interests, this
is troubling, to say the least.

It is this insatiable demand for children that, at times, causes international
adoption to lose its distinction from its illegal and unethical counterpart,
child trafficking. Adoption works when (and only when) a child in need of a
parent can be matched with a parent or parents with the desire and ability to
raise that child.

It is undoubtedly extremely painful for Hibbs to be dragged through this
situation, but she is not the primary character in this story. Three girls who
have been pawns in a bureaucratic mess now appear to be in the custody of their
grandmother. That sounds like a potentially satisfactory resolution to an awful
situation for them.

As for Hibbs and others like her who have been put in this unfortunate mess, I
suggest that they channel their frustration toward the agencies and governments
involved, but that they remember that the interests of children should always be
put first, and that sometimes those interests aren't best served by adoption.

ERIC WHITTINGTON, MINNEAPOLIS

THE NEW DELTA

It's NWA employees who make it work

I have been a flight attendant for Northwest Airlines for 20 years. The Oct. 11
article "The merged Delta-Northwest: Smooth Flight" made me realize that the
flying public doesn't understand that the employees at the airport, in the
flight deck and on the airplane are the same employees who have served them for
more than 40 years.

I am offended when I hear someone say "Those Delta flight attendants are a cut
above." Those are the same Northwest Airlines flight attendants serving them,
but with a different uniform.

TERRI HERBST, EDEN PRAIRIE

F-16S TO PAKISTAN?

Profit trumps common sense, national interest

The Oct. 14 Star Tribune announced, "Lockheed Martin unveiled the first of 18
new generation F-16s being made for Pakistan." The deal is only worth a few
hundred million dollars, and it must be satisfying to our military and corporate
executives to see our foreign aid to the Pakistani people come full circle in
this way.

I can only hope each plane is equipped with a remote-controlled detonation
device in the event American troops are ever the targets of those planes. A
similar device placed inside each Lockheed Martin executive and Air Force chief
of staff would serve as guarantee of the wisdom of their choices.

BOB CIERNIA, NORTHFIELD, MINN.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2009 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            October 21, 2016 Friday

Pharma companies targeting poor Egytians for drug trails: NGO

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya,Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 499  words


Egypt ranks second among African nations for the number of drugs trials
conducted by pharmaceutical companies, due in part to the high cost of
healthcare and widespread poverty in Egypt, according to a recent study by the
Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights.



The NGO issued a report on Tuesday suggesting that Egypt is an attractive
location for multinational pharamceutical companies seeking to test new drugs,
since poverty makes patients more willing to take part.

The absence of a comprehensive and efficient health insurance system in Egypt
means more people are likely to take part in trials in order to get free
medicines, said the report, titled "Ethical questions about clinical drug trials
in Egypt -- local challenges and the funding of manufacturers".

The report said that more than half of the drug trials conducted in Egypt are
for the treatment of tumors. At least half of the trials are conducted by major
drugs companies such as Novartis and Roche.

Poverty and the high cost of treatment prompt Egyptian patients to undergo
clinical trials "in order to obtain free treatment even if the results of this
treatment are unknown, and even though there are other authorized treatments.
This climate facilitates the exploitation of the most vulnerable and needy
citizens," the report said.

Among those contributing to the report is a man named Omar, who acts as a broker
convincing patients to take part in clinical trials. Omar says he selects his
clients based on their poor appearance, convincing them that they will be able
to get free treatment. He adds that the majority of patients agree when they
hear that the treatment is free.

Over the past two decades, clinical trials have increased sharply in low- and
middle-income countries, including Egypt, where there is a high risk of
breaching ethical standards, says the report.

The rapid increase in population and a general ignorance of medicines and
treatments also make Egypt a tempting location for drugs trials compared to
other nations in the Middle East and North Africa.

The international guiding principles for clinical trials stipulate that the
people of countries where such trials are conducted should benefit from the
results. However, the report said that "only a small number of drugs tested in
Egypt are licensed later and made available on the Egyptian market at convenient
prices, contrary to what occurs in high-income countries where similar tests are
conducted."


When such drugs are made available in Egypt, they are usually too expensive for
Egyptian families, with the monthly cost of some treatments 20 times the monthly
per capita income in the public sector, according to the report.

The study gives particularl attention to cancer-drug experiments held in Egypt
by multinational companies that do not abide by ethical standards. It recommends
legislation to regulate such experiments, protect the rights of patients and
provide for adequate transparency regarding these experiments and their results.



LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2016 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               September 3, 2012

Will concierge medicine's image improve as it evolves?

BYLINE: Back to top

SECTION: PROFESSION; Ethics Forum

LENGTH: 1207 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


Back to top

Scenario: Are concierge practices more ethical if they use a "mixed model"?

Since its introduction in the mid-1990s, concierge medicine has spawned several
submodels. Do these models solve earlier ethical concerns with concierge
medicine and help physicians give better care to patients?

Reply:

A collection of stories by physicians on how financial relationships affect
their practice of medicine was recently published in Narrative Inquiry in
Bioethics. The picture that emerged was different from typical discussions of
conflicts of interest in medicine. Physicians were well-aware that third parties
were trying to influence their practice. But instead of focusing on interference
from industry, they focused on the bias that can be introduced by medical
practice managers, hospital CEOs and even the Food and Drug Administration.

Medical care is rarely ever a simple, dyadic relationship between a patient and
physician. Third parties are everywhere, and perhaps no third party influences
the practice of medicine so strongly as payers -- private and governmental.

Concierge medicine developed in the mid-1990s as an alternative to many of the
traditional financial relationships physicians have with insurance companies and
Medicaid or Medicare, providing doctors with a higher level of control over the
practice of medicine. In exchange for a retainer payment, physicians in those
new concierge practices provided a greater level of access to a much-smaller
number of patients than in a conventional practice setting.

For many years, the standard view of concierge medicine described an ultra-elite
boutique for those wealthy enough to afford it. It was assumed that physicians
who chose to go into concierge medicine were making a conscious decision to care
for only healthier and wealthier patients. And it was the rare physician who
chose to do this.

Things have started to change, however. The Government Accounting Office
estimated that the number of physicians practicing retainer-based care increased
more than tenfold from 1999 to 2004. An estimated 1,000 to 5,000 doctors
practice in these models, depending on which models are included and who is
counting. A GAO survey found annual retainer fees ranging from $60 to $15,000,
with an average of $1,500 per patient.

Three major models have emerged: "fee for extra services," such as an annual
extended physical and other services not covered by insurance; "fee for care,"
where a patient pays a retainer fee for all primary care provided by a doctor
who does not generally accept private insurance; and mixed or hybrid models that
involve a retainer fee for some concierge benefits and insurance payments for
covered services. Hybrid models are typically more affordable but involve
compromises for physicians and patients. Doctors see a larger number of patients
and reintroduce some level of third-party involvement, and patients lose some of
the benefits of being one of a few patients.

These new developments suggest that retainer-based medicine deserves a second
look, because some older stereotypes are clearly inaccurate. This article
examines briefly three claims that proponents make about retainer-based
medicine: It's a better way to practice medicine, a better way to receive
medical care and a remedy for a broken primary health care delivery system.

A lighter patient load

Where an average primary care physician practice serves 2,000 to 4,000 patients,
retainer-based practices typically serve 100 to 500 patients. A report by the
Medicare Payment Advisory Commission highlights several advantages for the
physician, including increased time with patients, decreased stress and burnout,
and increased or comparable compensation while working fewer hours and having
less administrative and billing responsibility. Direct care and payment means
that the constraints imposed by payers are removed, and physicians may recommend
the individualized care they believe their patients need.

Concierge physicians regularly provide patients with personal cellphone access,
same-day appointments, hour-long annual physicals and 30-minute appointment
slots. Studies have shown that patients favor concierge medicine over general
medicine practice in terms of care coordination, access to care and time spent
with physicians. Some have argued that increased satisfaction leads to a better
patient-physician relationship, enhancing trust as well as adherence to medical
recommendations.

Additionally, by removing most third parties from the delivery of medical care,
conflicts of interest may be reduced. It is unclear, however, whether these
conflicts are replaced by a heightened tendency to prescribe (e.g., antibiotics)
based on patient requests rather than on needs.

Although concierge medicine may deliver excellent care in a manner that is
attractive to physicians, we question whether it has the potential to fix many
of the more serious problems that exist in our system for delivering primary
care.

First, the affordability of retainer-based medicine is sometimes exaggerated
insofar as the patient's ongoing need for insurance is ignored. In addition to
paying a retainer, most patients will want to maintain insurance to cover
medications, specialist care, surgical procedures and expensive tests. This can
put retainer-based medicine beyond the reach of many (or at least requires a
significant change in spending priorities).

Second, reducing the number of patients that concierge-practice physicians see
significantly reduces the number of patients served by each primary care
physician. Proponents argue that retainer-based medicine will increase the
number of physicians who go into primary care by making it more attractive. But
this practice model has existed for nearly two decades, and there is no evidence
that the number of primary care physicians is increasing. In The Wall Street
Journal, columnist John Goodman, president of the National Center for Policy
Analysis, recently predicted that "as concierge care grows, the strain on the
rest of the system will become greater."

Finally, to the extent that mixed models reduce costs to patients and increase
access by accepting insurance payments, they also are dependent upon the very
system that is often vociferously criticized by "concierge" purists.

In conclusion, codes of medical ethics assert that physicians have fiduciary
obligations to their patients. The obligations that physicians have to society
are less well-specified, requiring the professional to balance social justice
concerns (regarding fair distribution of the primary care burden across
physicians and access to care for lower-income patients) with professional
autonomy concerns.

Given a second look, retainer-based medicine remains attractive to doctors and
patients in many regards. But significant questions remain about whether it
should be promoted as a model that can meet the needs of most patients in
society even with the advent of hybrid models.

Back to top

Back to top

Back to top

Weblink

American Academy of Private Physicians (www.aapp.org/)

American Medical Association Code of Ethics Opinion 8.055 on retainer practices
(www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/medical-ethics/code-medical-ethics
/opinion8055.page)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

DeLeo summons leaders to a retreat // 2-day talks planned on budget, ethics,
gaming

BYLINE: John J. Monahan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


BOSTON - Budget cuts, health care costs and gaming will be on the agenda at an
unusual two-day retreat for Democratic House leaders in Amherst this week. But
House Speaker Robert A. DeLeo also wants to reinforce expectations that
lawmakers avoid ethical breaches and respect the public trust.

Mr. DeLeo has called ranking Democrats, all committee leaders, to attend the
retreat at the University of Massachusetts campus, one month before the start of
a scheduled trial of his predecessor, former House Speaker Salvatore F. DiMasi,
on bid-rigging and kickback charges.

The overnight retreat Thursday and Friday will include forums on the state's
economy and changing demographics, and will be used to nail down strategies
aimed at passage of budget cuts, expanding gaming bills and health insurance
changes for municipal workers.

State Rep. Vincent A. Pedone, D-Worcester, chairman of the Committee on Third
Reading, said he expects the speaker will also reinforce demands that lawmakers
hold themselves to higher standards.

"I think Speaker DeLeo wants to ensure that everybody understands that we are
not going to tolerate some of the things that have created a bad image for the
Legislature," Mr. Pedone said. While the event is expected to be closed to the
press, officials said no lobbyists are invited as well.

"He wants everyone to understand that with the position comes the responsibility
as legislators to live up to our commitment to people. I think the intention is
for members of the speaker's leadership team to understand we have a
responsibility to uphold the principles in our oath and ethics, personally and
professionally," Mr. Pedone said.

The retreat follows a series of ethics training sessions held by the secretary
of state's office last week that lawmakers were mandated to attend.

Mr. DeLeo, who backed a series of lobbyist and legislative ethics reforms last
year in the wake of Mr. DiMasi's indictment and other scandals, is also using
the retreat to line up action on a series of high priority issues.

Deep budget cuts are expected when the House unveils its budget next month and
the speaker has said he is ready to act on bills to lower municipal health care
costs by forcing cities with higher-cost insurance programs to join the state
Group Insurance Commission plan for worker coverage.

While the governor and speaker have yet to resolve disagreements over whether
the state should allow casinos and slot machines at race tracks, the retreat
could also be used to test possible resolutions to that dispute which caused the
governor to block an expanded gaming bill last year.

Republican leaders said last week they expect the retreat will provide a chance
for top Democrats to explain decisions on the budget and other major issues
worked out privately by committee chairmen and other House leaders in recent
weeks.

Seth Gitell, spokesman for Mr. DeLeo said, the retreat will use no state funds.

David N. Martin, treasurer of the Bob DeLeo Committee, said the speaker's
political committee is paying room and board expenses of retreat participants.

Mr. Gitell would not say where the lawmakers are staying. No agenda or list of
speakers has been released.

Mr. Pedone said job creation ideas will be on the agenda as well as strategies
to address massive repairs needed for roads and bridges. "I think gaming is
going to be talked about," as well, Mr. Pedone said. He said he expects to hear
details about "some of the difficulties we face in the budget, "and revenue
shortfalls, which the governor said has created a $1.5 billion gap from last
year's funding levels.

On the jobs front, Mr. Pedone said he will push for a tax break for companies
designing video games, a growing industry he hopes will build on a foothold
already established in the Boston area and in Worcester where Becker College and
WPI are offering courses in computer game design. Mr. Pedone said video gaming
is now a $25 billion industry in the U.S. expected to double over the next five
years with expansion into corporate and military training simulators and medical
applications. He has proposed a 25 percent income tax credit for video game
designers.

ART: PHOTO

CUTLINE: Mr. DeLeo

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOSTON - Budget cuts, health care costs and gaming will be on the
agenda at an unusual two-day retreat for Democratic House leaders in Amherst
this week. But House Speaker Robert A. DeLeo also wants to reinforce
expectations that lawmakers avoid ethical breaches and respect the public trust.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                             March 18, 2011 Friday

Aflac is a World's Most Ethical Company for Fifth Straight Year

LENGTH: 466  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, March 18 -- Aflac, the insurance company that helps employers offer
their workers a financial safety net at no direct cost to their businesses, has
been declared a World's Most Ethical Company for a fifth consecutive year. The
Ethisphere Institute, a think tank dedicated to the creation, advancement and
sharing of best practices in business ethics, corporate social responsibility,
anti-corruption and sustainability, annually recognizes companies around the
world that demonstrate a commitment to ethical leadership, compliance practices
and corporate social responsibility. Aflac is the only insurance company to
appear on the list each year since the inception of the award.

"We are honored to be the only insurance company on Ethisphere's list of World's
Most Ethical Companies for five straight years," Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos
said. "Honesty, integrity and transparency are long-held values and Aflac and it
is a great source of pride to be recognized by Ethisphere; the definitive
authority when it comes to corporate ethics."

To compile the 2011 list, Ethisphere reviewed thousands of companies and a
record number of applications using its propriety methodology. Ethisphere named
110 companies that surpassed their industry peers to this year's World's Most
Ethical Companies list. Winners include companies from 38 industries and 43
companies headquartered outside the United States.

According to Ethisphere, Aflac secured a hard-earned spot on the list by going
the extra mile in implementing upright business practices and initiatives that
are instrumental to the company's success, that benefit the community, and that
raise the bar for ethical standards within the industry.

"As companies strive to maintain a competitive advantage, good ethics translates
into better business, and better business means better bottom lines. Aflac
recognizes the important role that principled practices play in brand
reputation, which ultimately is the most valuable asset for a corporation," said
Alex Brigham, Executive Director of the Ethisphere Institute. "Each year, the
competition gets more intense for the World's Most Ethical Companies and this
year was no exception, with a record number of organizations vying for this
distinguished honor. Ethisphere congratulates Aflac on being one of the World's
Most Ethical Companies for 2011."

Aflac has appeared on the World's Most Ethical Companies list every year since
the creation of the award. 2011 winners will be featured in the Q1 edition of
Ethisphere magazine and were honored last night at an awards dinner in New York
City Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Pak Banker. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           September 11, 1994, Sunday

SAVING SNIPS

SECTION: THE OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1000 words


Green victory

CRITICISM of Body Shop's environmental and ethical credentials generated by the
American magazine Business Ethics has been unfair, concludes the Ethical
Investment Research Service after reviewing the allegations and Body Shop's
responses. The finding should ensure Body Shop remains popular with
environmental funds.

Highland hike

ROYAL Bank of Scotland has launched two new issues of its Guaranteed Income
Account. Interest is fixed and rises in steps from 7.25 per cent gross (5.44
net) to 11.5 per cent gross (8.63 net). The minimum investment is pounds 5,000
and savers can invest for two or five years. Withdrawals permitted after 5
October 1995 subject to penalty. Tel: 0800 880880.

High in the Abbey

ABBEY National is launching Triple Growth Bond, a three- year account offering
7.3 per cent gross (5.475 net) in the first year, 8 per cent gross in the second
and 9.5 (7.13 net) in the third for a minimum investment of pounds 10,000. There
will be bonuses if base rates rise. Rates are lower for monthly income. It is
available to existing Abbey customers until 1 October.

No full recovery

LEGAL & General offers a 2 per cent discount on investments in its UK Recovery
unit trust until the end of October. The minimum investment is pounds 1,000.
Tel: 071-528 6793.

Charity at home

NATIONAL & Provincial building society is offering a 0.5 per cent discount on
its standard variable rate on the entire period of a home loan to people working
for a registered charity and trustees. Tel: 0800 808080.

Going for a broker

STOCKBROKER Gerrard Vivian Gray has produced a free guide to what it believes
are the essential points to consider when choosing a broker. Free copies are
available by writing to Tracy Preston (Marketing Department), Gerrard Vivian
Gray, Burne House, 88 High Holborn, London WC1V 6LS. Tel: 071-831 8883.

Detour de France

HEALTH insurer OHRA will now allow people covered by its Medios policy to have
treatment at 18 French hospitals. The service is aimed at holidaymakers and
business people but UK-based policyholders can also qualify if referred by a GP
and consultant.

Honed mortgage

UCB Home Loans has extended its Enterprise mortgage scheme for the self
-employed to remortgages on properties that have no existing loans outstanding.
Tel: 081-401 4500.

Three on a rock

NORTHERN Rock building society is offering a three-year fixed rate of 8.75 per
cent gross (6.56 net) through a postal account. The minimum investment is pounds
2,500 and the rate for monthly interest is 8.42 per cent. Tel: 0500 505000.

Endowment cut

THE Independent Order of Foresters has set up a freephone helpline for members
after revealing it will not be selling new financial services products until
next year. It will no longer sell endowment policies. Tel: 0800 662222.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              287 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                   February 17, 2004 Tuesday Michigan Edition

Brief Case

BYLINE: STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 569 words


INDIANAPOLIS

Union workers ratify contract with Kroger

Union workers at 15 Kroger stores, mostly in northern Indiana, have approved a
new contract, the company said.

The agreement with Union Food and Commercial Workers Local 700 covers about 300
nonfood workers and was ratified overwhelmingly, Kroger said in a statement.

The Indiana stores covered by the agreement are in Elkhart, Goshen, Fort Wayne,
LaPorte, Mishawaka, Plymouth, South Bend and Warsaw, along with stores in
Defiance, Ohio, and Sturgis.

Kroger said the new contract, which is in effect until March 31, 2007, includes
ratification bonuses, increased wages and increases of up to 8 percent a year in
health-insurance premiums.

SOUTH BEND

Enron discussion kicks off ethics lectures

The University of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business kicked off its annual
Ethics Week lecture series Monday with a panel discussion on "Enron: A
Multi-dimensional Examination of an Unethical Enterprise."

Ethics Week continues today with "Ethical Dimensions of Corporate Governance,"
presented by Larry Rieger, partner, Crowe Chizek and Co.

On Wednesday, John Gschwind, general counsel for General Electric Supply, will
speak on "Ethical Implications of Operating a Multinational Corporation."

The week's events conclude Thursday with "Ethics Crisis at a Bank," a lecture by
Steve Watts, president and chief executive of Sobieski Bank.

All lectures will be at 12:30 p.m. in Giovanini Commons in Mendoza. They are
free and open to the public.

BANGALORE, INDIA

Siemens shifts software jobs to low-cost nations

The German firm Siemens will move most of the 15,000 software programming jobs
from its offices in the United States and Western Europe to India, China and
Eastern Europe, a company official said Monday.

"Siemens has recognized that a huge amount of software development activity
needs to be moved from high-cost countries to low-cost countries," said Anil R.
Laud, managing director of Siemens Information Systems, the group's information
technology subsidiary in India.

DENVER

Trial under way in Qwest fraud

Four former Qwest executives head to federal court today for jury selection in
the first criminal trial arising from probes of questionable accounting at the
telecommunications company.

Prosecutors say the men -- charged with conspiracy and fraud -- devised a scheme
that allowed Qwest to improperly book $34 million from a computer equipment
sale. Prosecutors say they conspired to lie about the deal and hid the facts
from then-auditor Arthur Andersen.

The case is the first stemming from investigations that ultimately forced Qwest
Communications International Inc. to erase $2.5 billion in revenue from its
books and prompted former CEO Joseph Nacchio to quit under pressure in 2002.

ATLANTA

Cingular, Vodafone still vying for AT> Wireless

Cingular Wireless and Britain's Vodafone Group PLC boosted their bids to $38
billion for AT> Wireless Services Inc. on Monday, as the board of the nation's
third-largest mobile phone provider mulled which company would ultimately buy
it, according to people familiar with the talks.

Vodafone matched Cingular's offers in each stage of the process and did so again
Monday.

A deal with Cingular could slim the field of national wireless carriers from six
to five, possibly easing the price wars battering the industry.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2004 South Bend Tribune Corporation


                              288 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Couillard's private-sector job raises questions; Will the former health minister
profit from the decisions he made in government?

BYLINE: JOSEE LEGAULT, FREELANCE

SECTION: EDITORIAL / OP-ED; JosÉe Legault; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 667  words


Philippe Couillard's quick jump from his seat as health minister into the
Persistence Capital Partners business venture raises some crucial ethical
questions.

For instance, how could the person who was the official custodian of Quebec's
public health-care system for more than five years go directly into Canada's
first private investment fund that looks to extend and profit from the delivery
of private health-care services throughout this country?

In doing this, did his recent position as health minister serve his personal
financial interest by bringing him to PCP? And what are we to make of a career
move to a group whose goal is to extend for-profit services that can be said to
be against the public good by increasing unequal access to health-care?

This week, fewer than two months after he quit the Charest government, Couillard
announced he was joining Dr. Sheldon Elman and his son Stuart at PCP. Elman, a
renowned physician who counted former federal Liberal leader Paul Martin as a
patient, founded the Medisys health group with former Liberal senator and
fundraiser Leo Kolber who sat on its board.

Through the acquisition and creation of a series of private clinics and
companies, Medisys grew into a lucrative major provider of health services
across Canada for corporations, insurance companies, provincial and federal
government agencies, and individuals. In other words, Couillard has joined an
influential, politically well-connected and highly profitable business network.

There's no getting away from it: The speed and the circumstances in which it all
took place raises enough ethical questions to warrant an inquiry by Quebec's
lobbyists' commissioner.

For one thing, the commissioner must find out if reports that Couillard met with
the Elmans when he was still a minister are founded. And if so, was their future
partnership discussed when Couillard held public office?

The commissioner must also look into one of the last things Couillard did as
minister - increasing from three to 50 the number of medical procedures the
public system could outsource to private clinics, as well as cut down by half
their cost of exploitation permits. Was there a direct or indirect link between
his future employment with PCP and the extension of the market for private
clinics?

Another question: By going into PCP so quickly, will Couillard profit unduly
from his five-year stint as health minister and from his laws and regulations
favouring outsourcing to private health-care services and the use of private
health insurance plans?

And what about Couillard's privileged access to confidential information as a
member of cabinet? How are citizens to be assured that none of it will be
transmitted privately to PCP or any of its clients? Regardless of Couillard's
undeniable professional credentials, there is here at least the appearance of
conflict of interest.

But Couillard's deeds as a minister, and now as a businessman, are just details
in the larger picture. The private sector's appetite in this field has in fact
been growing since Lucien Bouchard created the winning conditions for it when he
imposed drastic cuts throughout the public health-care system.

There's been no greater gift to private health businesses than Quebecers'
ensuing worries, founded or not, about how they'll be treated in that public
system. Unless you count the gift of the blind eye - sometimes even open
collaboration - that Péquiste and Liberal governments turned to the private
sector.

In fact, there is a troubling lack of political alternatives on this issue in
Quebec. None of the three main parties advocates limiting the impressive 30-per-
cent private health spending - the highest rate of all Canadian provinces.

If anything, there's a strong push, lead by the new president of the Canadian
Medical Association, for even more for-profit health services. Here's hoping for
more voices like that of the Médecins québécois pour le régime public, which
just penned the Montreal Declaration against this trend.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                              April 5, 2010 Monday

Letters to the Editor - April 5

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1054 words


Abortion

Private reflection

is appropriate

S usan Gills, whose letter appeared in the March 26 Daily Camera, writes that
she has protested at Dr. Warren Hern's clinic since 2008. What personal
motivations, what past experiences in her own life might lead a person like her
to do something so intrusive?

Dr. Hern is a highly-skilled, well-respected surgeon and physician, whose
practice encompasses gynecological procedures, which are legal in this state and
in this country. He may not conform to everyone's beliefs and values, but it is
his own conscience and beliefs that inform his actions. Dr. Hern's patients are
ethical and honorable people, reaching the best decision they can in the face of
circumstances the rest of us do not know and have no right to judge.

In a free society, in a religiously pluralistic country, other people often act
and speak and make decisions with which we don't agree and to which we may
deeply object. Our heritage of individual ethical decision-making and right of
personal conscience remain dear to most of us.

Our society is deeply polarized and extremist harangues are much in evidence.
When we Americans lose our sense of unity as a people, our tolerance and
fairness, our respect for others whose beliefs differ, we weaken our ability to
deal with the crises of our times.

Prayer can be comforting, profound and transformative. In the sanctuary of our
homes and religious communities, we are each free to pray in the ways that are
meaningful to us -- in a manner far kinder to others whose beliefs and
understandings are different, and much less aggressive.

REV. BARBARA MOLFESE

Lafayette

Democrats

Why I quit

the Dems

I'm no longer a Democrat. They have repeatedly let us down. We have more war and
expanded military budget with a shrunken allocations for domestic needs that cry
out for help.

Truckloads of money went to banks yet they still give monstrously large bonuses
to the elite while they foreclose houses. President Obama has plans to expand
"free trade" that is responsible for exporting jobs (e.g. NAFTA and WTO.)
Single-payer health insurance was off the table and only a few would even
consider it though between 70-80 percent of us want it. The new bill makes cuts
in Medicare and still leaves loads of people without coverage.

How many times do we have to be let down before the picture is clear? The
Democrats have little interest in what we want or need. Neither do the
Republicans.

Bob Kinsey is running as a Green candidate for U.S. Senate. Check him out at
kinseyforsenate.org.

TOM MOORE

Boulder

Birthright citizenship

Deporting babies

is no solution

A closer look into George Will's call for a reinterpretation of the 14th
Amendment to deny citizenship to children born in the United States to
undocumented parents uncovers the drastic implications of the new policy he
espouses.

Will's argument ignores (i) that the 14th Amendment was passed precisely to
abolish the practice linking rights in this country to the law of blood,
inheritance, and race (jus sanguinis) that was so intimately tied to our unjust
racial history and (ii) that the debate leading up to the 14th Amendment
squarely considered and settled whether children born here to immigrant parents
deserved citizenship under jus soli (the law of territory or soil). Will's claim
that the drafters could not have been considering children of undocumented
parents because there were no "illegal" immigrants at the time, is clever but
hollow.

Any casual review of our history shows that immigrants arriving or brought here
before, during, and after the passage of the 14th Amendment have been subjected
to a series of exclusionary laws, yet the principle of jus soli has prevailed
thanks to the 14th Amendment, contributing to so many American immigrant success
stories, not the least of which is our current president.

Mr. Will's call for a return to jus sanguinis similarly evades social science
and policy. The statistics cited on immigrant births establish no clear causal
relationship between birthright citizenship and illegal immigration, he does not
mention that birthright citizenship confers no legal status to undocumented
parents thereby reducing its significance as an immigration loophole, and there
is no explanation of how pregnant women or babies born here would heretofore be
screened for the "right blood type."

Immigration reform is no doubt required, but curtailing birthright citizenship
is not the solution and would only lead us to adopt divisive policies of our
past.

ANDRES SNAIDER

Boulder

Community Cycles

Clarifying the

mission

In reference to the March 31 article, " Concern that Boulder-donated bikes end
up in Africa prompts new deal," we just wanted to clarify Community's Cycles
mission.

When Community Cycles began in the spring of 2006, it was a blend of several
bicycle interest groups and focuses. At the time, we were primarily providing
bikes and service to folks at the homeless shelter. We were also actively
seeking bikes to send to Ghana, Africa through public bike collection drives.
After several shipments abroad, we decided to refocus our efforts locally, and
redefine our mission to providing bicycles and bicycle safety and education
programs in Boulder.

Community Cycles has a variety programs that keep bikes out of the landfill,
teach mechanics and redistribute them locally. Participants in our Earn-A-Bike
program spend 15 work-trade hours in our community bike shop wrenching on
donated bikes. When they complete their hours, they pick a bike, tune it up and
keep it as their own. In 2009, 283 people went through the Earn-A-Bike program.
Last December, we gave away 290 kids bikes to low income children and families
at our fourth annual holiday kids bike give-away.

We also sell about 500 affordable refurbished bikes a year. Proceeds from these
sales support programs like Youth Earn-A-Bike, after school bike classes,
Rolling Bike Clinics, bicycle workshops and more. All of this programs take
place in either our shop in Boulder or in Boulder's neighborhoods.

After four years in existence, thousands of bike donations, a small staff and
hundreds of volunteers, Community Cycles has developed many ways to return
donated bikes into our local community. Find out more at CommunityCycles.org.

RICH POINTS

Executive Director, Community Cycles

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                           September 16, 1994, Friday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 778 words


HEALTH INSURANCE:

CONSIDER THE CUSTOMER

There is a fundamental inequality in the current system of employer-paid health
insurance that is often overlooked: The costs ultimately are paid not by the
company but rather by its customers ("Universal Health Coverage Is a Must,"
Letters, Sept. 1, Page 6A).

All of us, in fact, pay for employee health insurance whenever we buy anything
from a business that provides such coverage. Car buyers, for example, can pay $
1,000 per vehicle in health insurance premiums for auto workers and for the big
insurance company staffs that administer their policies.

Is it ethical to require the customer, who may not have health insurance himself
but may not be poor enough to qualify for Medicaid, to pay the premiums of
workers who may be better off than he is?

There must be a better way to provide health insurance than through employers -
the current system that health insurance companies love so much.

It would be preferable for the better-off to pay for the health insurance of the
poor than the other way around, which is what often happens under the current
system.  Albert W. Rader

Stamford, Conn.  DON'T CEDE MARITIME

POLICY TO FOREIGNERS

As I follow your editorials and correspondence on the maritime reform issues
before the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee - particularly
S. 1945, the maritime reform bill - it occurs to me that shipping services and
cost competitive rate structures would be significantly worse off without the
presence of the U.S.-flag carriers.

The very existence of the U.S. merchant marine industry is now threatened by
special interest groups that view maritime reform legislation as a tax on trade.
Nothing can be further from the truth.

Real transportation costs for export and import goods have been dramatically and
continually reduced over the last 25 years due to efficiencies and innovations
introduced by U.S.-flag carriers.

I cite some of these innovations for ready reference:

* Introduction of containerization increased cargo handling productivity 50-fold
(Matson and Sea-Land Service in the 1950s).

* Introduction of oversized containers (45-feet, 48-feet and 53-feet) increased
productivity by 20 percent to 70 percent at American President Lines beginning
in 1981.

* Development of lightweight, articulated "double-stack" railcars increased
productivity by 40 percent at American President Lines in 1985.

* Use of Post Panamax vessels with superior economies of scale at American
President Lines beginning in 1987.

In addition to providing unlimited sealift support for U.S. military operations
for the last 75 years, U.S.-flag operators have provided the ingenuity to
produce the lowest-cost transportation services for U.S. importers and
exporters, forcing competition among them to match efficiencies and, therefore,
rates.

Defeat of maritime legislation, which seems to be the focus of major shipper
groups, will force current operators to re-flag their vessels and leave maritime
policy in the hands of foreigners for the first time in our history.

This comes at a time when U.S. carriers are making major efforts to reduce their
overhead and operating cost structures to ensure their long-term viability in
those major trade lanes serving U.S. foreign commerce.

Foreign carriers today are not profitable on major Atlantic and Pacific U.S.
trade lanes. The major fleets operated by Japanese and German competitors have
higher base operating costs than U.S.-flag carriers, absent foreign subsidies.

With U.S. industries increasing productivity over major European and Asian
industries, and U.S. workers currently earning less than similarly skilled
workers overseas, continuation of U.S.- flag shipping offers U.S. shippers and
consignees the best alternative for transportation cost maintenance.

The short-term and limited federal support initiative offered by S. 1945 for
U.S.-flag operators is critical to long-term rate stability in our major foreign
trade lanes.

Failure to pass a maritime reform bill during the waning hours of the current
session of Congress will once and for all eliminate the U.S.-flag presence as an
instrument of our foreign commerce.

This will not only damage the maritime industry but also U.S. producers and
consumers, who will be forced to rely on the vagaries of diverse foreign
maritime policies.

The U.S.-flag carrier industry has well-served both commercial and military
interests for over 200 years. Now is not the time for these commercial and
military interests to abandon such a partner.  Richard L. Hill

President and CEO

Amtech Logistics Corp.

Dallas

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

EDITOR-NOTE: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                  Copyright 1994 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              291 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)

                              May 14, 2010 Friday

Amana Takaful steers thinking towards doing the right thing

LENGTH: 568  words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, May 14 -- Amana Takaful, Sri Lanka's pioneer and leader in Takaful
has launched a new campaign, ushering in a new dimension in corporate
communications, as it steps into its second decade of operations in Sri Lanka.
The campaign titled, 'Hari De - Honda De' ('What's Right - What's Good') aims at
communicating the values that Takaful itself is built upon, as well as to act as
a reminder to all, that doing the right thing is good and has its own rewards.

The campaign is derived from the Takaful concept itself and Amana Takaful's
vision of being a responsible and ethical business entity, committed to
upholding principles of insurance. Takaful embodies the values of taking care of
each other.

Takaful is a system of participatory insurance, similar to co-operative and
mutual insurance, which is based on mutuality, transparency and sharing. Moral
and ethical standards underpin every transaction and ensure win - win solutions
to all, by way of Surplus Refund, where customers who do not have claims are
entitled to share in underwriting profits.

One of the key standpoints of Takaful is its firm belief in moral
responsibility. The company does not invest in or insure businesses that are
deemed to be harmful to mankind.

The CEO of Amana Takaful, Ehsan Zaheed stated: "We strongly felt it was apt to
embark on such a campaign that communicates the very fabric of Takaful and
conveys what we stand for and do every day. Our business revolves around
principles of what is good and what is right. These qualities of good and right
are universal to all mankind, irrespective of geography, religion or social
status."

Amana Takaful also firmly believes that being a responsible and committed
insurer means looking beyond the aspect of profitability. It is in this light
that it has dedicated a unit to promote personal medical insurance, which
enables people to enjoy quality medical care, a social service much needed in
today's context.

Amana Takaful also offers 'Navodaya,' a micro insurance product, making
insurance affordable to those who are otherwise not able to afford insurance.
"These are generally areas that others are cautious to tread on, but we have
found them to be both profitable and rewarding. Our belief is that everyone must
benefit from Takaful and its services. This is what Takaful is all about,"
Zaheed continued.

Amana Takaful also believes that as citizens of Sri Lanka we all have a
responsibility towards each other, as well as to our country. 'Amana Takaful
Cares,' the recently launched CSR programme of Amana Takaful, revolves around
enhancing the educational standards of children in rural areas; guiding poor,
urban children towards education: development of health care in rural areas and
economic development among the less privileged, as part of its responsibility to
society.

The uniqueness of 'Amana Takaful Cares' is that it involves its customers by way
of donations, which the company matches with its own. The funds collected are
invested in a project in the community of that region or locality. Amana Takaful
has been socially active from the outset. However 'Amana Takaful Cares' campaign
was launched in March to enable customers also to join in and be a part of the
initiative. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror Sri
Lanka. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                      Copyright 2010 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           Daily News (South Africa)

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday

Ethics in robots under spotlight

LENGTH: 846  words


In the demilitarised zone dividing North and South Korea, SGR-1 robots are on
patrol, equipped with cameras and radar to detect intruders as well as speakers
to warn them off. If that fails, they also carry machine guns and grenade
launchers.

In the US, the Home Exploring Robotic Butler can retrieve a book from a shelf, a
meal from a microwave oven or a drink from the kitchen. It can even separate an
Oreo biscuit.

In Japan, a seal-like robot called Paro provides companionship for seniors - and
seems to ease the effects of dementia.

Over the next few decades, robots will become part of everyday life. But as they
grow more sophisticated and autonomous, they'll confront situations of cultural
and moral ambiguity that won't be easily resolved - situations that people, over
the millennia, have learnt to navigate but that resist codification that
machines can easily understand. This means robots, from the battlefield to the
nursing home, will require more advanced ethical decision-making abilities. And
humans will need to think through what should happen when they cause harm.

Three challenges in particular need to be explored.

The first and most immediate is in warfare. About 40 countries are at work on
weapons and military equipment that have some degree of autonomy - from drones
to the Legged Squad Support System - as are plenty of private companies. The
appeal seems obvious. Unmanned weapons don't need health insurance or food or
hazard pay. They never lash out in anger, disobey an order or suffer from
post-traumatic stress. And, at least in theory, they could save the lives of
many human soldiers.

At the same time, fully autonomous weapons - those that are capable of making
their own decisions about whether to attack or kill, without a human "in the
loop" - make us deeply uneasy. Only 26 percent of respondents to a survey by the
University of Massachusetts Amherst favoured their use. Human Rights Watch has
asserted that they violate international humanitarian law and should be banned.

Yet bans on specific weapons systems - such as military aircraft or submarines -
have almost never been effective in the past. Instead, legal prohibitions and
ethical norms have arisen that effectively limit their use. So a more promising
approach might be to adapt existing international law to govern autonomous
technology - for instance, by requiring that such weapons, like all others,
can't be used indiscriminately or cause unnecessary suffering. It may turn out
that robotic weapons are actually better at meeting those requirements than
humans are.

Outside warfare, robots will confront situations with no obvious moral
resolution. Suppose one is assigned to make sure your grandmother takes her
pills. Then one day she refuses. A host of quandaries - from medical ethics to
privacy rights to cultural mores - arise that would be hard enough for a person
to resolve.

Situations like this will demand that engineers co-operate closely with
ethicists in designing software, and they will require much more sophisticated
rules than the "Three Laws of Robotics" made famous by Isaac Asimov. Ronald
Arkin, of the Georgia Institute of Technology, has done pioneering work on
creating "ethical governors" for robots. But we're a long way from a
satisfactory simulation of morality. Technology companies would be wise to boost
their investment in such research for the sake of both profits and liability.

Which leads to our third concern. When a robot with some degree of autonomy
unexpectedly harms someone or something, who's liable? The manufacturer? The
software designer? The owner? To some extent, the existing tort system can be
adapted to help sort things out. One insightful study suggests a hybrid
liability system in which robots would be treated as domesticated animals in
cases where their owners or victims acted negligently, and as commercial
products in cases where the machines were defective.

As robots grow more sophisticated, and people more reliant on them, another
model to consider is the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Programme. The
government could establish a fund, paid for by a tax on autonomous machines, to
compensate accident victims, thus ensuring that manufacturers won't fear rare
but very costly lawsuits - and won't be discouraged from inventing new robots -
provided they follow best practices in designing and marketing them.

In warfare as in ordinary life, when robots cause harm, it will be critical that
the lines of accountability are clear. Scenarios in which intelligent machines
grow self-aware enough to enslave humanity - evoked so vividly in movies such as
The Terminator - aren't plausible. Yet they express an important human
intuition: there is a danger in ceding too much control to technology.

This intuition can help guide us into the new robotic era. But we shouldn't let
it unduly impede a promising new field. With the right rules in place, the rise
of the machines should be nothing to fear. - Washington Post-Bloomberg

Daily News © 1999 - 2013 Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. All rights
strictly reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1295


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Independent Newspaper (Pty) Limited
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Should I Lie to Get Affordable Health Insurance?

BYLINE: By HILLARY ROSNER.

Hillary Rosner is a freelance journalist who reports about the environment.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1335 words


Boulder, Colo. -- HERE'S an ethical dilemma. If you could save your family more
than $8,000 next year simply by signing a statement affirming belief in
principles you find repugnant, would you?

It sounds absurd. But in fact that's the position I'm in this week, thanks to a
loophole in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as
Obamacare. My health insurance poses a financial hardship to my family. All I
have to do to lower my yearly bills by thousands of dollars is use my John
Hancock to denounce gay marriage and a woman's right to control her reproductive
destiny.

By Dec. 15, like many Americans, I need to choose a new health insurance plan
for 2017. I am a freelance journalist and editor. My husband runs a small
business that pays him a salary but no benefits. We are among the millions of
Americans who, under the Affordable Care Act, buy individual insurance through
an increasingly expensive and inadequate marketplace. Since the law went into
effect, monthly premiums for my family of three have already more than doubled,
from $450 a month to $930. (In Colorado, my home state, 2017 rates are on
average 20 percent higher than they were in 2016; in some counties that number
is 40 percent.) On top of that, high deductibles mean we pay for nearly
everything ourselves. In 2016, between monthly premiums and out-of-pocket costs,
we've spent roughly $20,000 on health care.

Our new plan, the fourth in four years, is being discontinued, so we must again
seek new insurance. We don't qualify for federal subsidies. I've got six months
of 2015 insurance premiums accruing interest on a credit card, and a $4,200 bill
for a four-hour emergency room visit sits menacingly on my desk. The number of
insurers offering individual plans in Colorado, as in many other states, has
dwindled; there are now only three companies -- Anthem, Cigna and Kaiser -- left
in our ZIP code. (In 14 Colorado counties, there is only one provider offering
plans.) Only one of our longtime doctors participates in any of these 2017
A.C.A.-plan networks.

I support the Affordable Care Act. Before it took effect, my husband was once
denied coverage on the grounds that he'd seen a doctor for a sinus infection; I
was charged hundreds of dollars above the quoted rate because of a long-ago
surgery with no lasting health impacts. I know people whose lives the Affordable
Care Act has transformed, friends with pre-existing conditions that had made
them uninsurable but who now can get the coverage they need. My support for the
law comes from a belief that access to affordable health care should be an
undeniable right. But the battle to get it passed produced a deeply, perhaps
fatally, flawed law -- and on a personal level, my quality of life has declined
under the A.C.A.

There are now a growing number of theoretically less expensive health care
options that don't comply with the Affordable Care Act. I could, for instance,
join a local membership-based primary care provider clinic -- around $200 a
month for a family of three -- and combine it with a similarly priced
catastrophic-coverage plan. But these options still leave gaps in your coverage,
and subject you to a fine for not carrying proper insurance -- up to 2.5 percent
of your adjusted gross income.

There is, though, one more option available to me. For only $500 a month -- a
saving of $8,400 a year in premiums over the Anthem plan we are considering -- I
could purchase coverage through a ''faith-based plan'' called Altrua
HealthShare. Officially known as ''health care sharing ministries,'' such plans
are not, strictly speaking, insurance. According to the Alliance of Health
Sharing Ministries, ''The purpose of the ministry is simply to organize other
people who voluntarily choose to help fellow members pay their medical bills in
keeping with biblical commands to 'share one another's burdens.' ''

But in practice, the ministries serve much the same function as insurance.
Members pay a monthly contribution, they are subject to an annual deductible (in
this case, $1,000 per person) and their doctor submits a claim and is reimbursed
by the plan.

Faith-based plans do not adhere to the same rules as Obamacare insurance plans.
They don't have to pay for preventive care, they may not insure smokers, they
may not cover pre-existing conditions, and they may deny you admission based on
your weight. If you are a 5-foot-6 woman and weigh more than 230 pounds, for
instance, Altrua HealthShare won't offer you membership. Unlike the other
non-A.C.A.-compliant options, though, health care sharing ministries are
actually exempt from the law. (These organizations have to meet certain
requirements, and must have been in existence continuously since 1999.) That
means if you sign up for one, you aren't subject to the fines.

While some health sharing ministries require membership in a Christian
congregation, Altrua HealthShare does not. My family's doctors all participate
in its extensive network. According to its guidelines, membership ''is based on
a religious tradition of mutual aid, neighborly assistance and burden sharing.''
Sounds promising. Membership, Altrua's brochure continues, ''is specifically
tailored for individuals who maintain a healthy lifestyle, make responsible
choices in regards to health and care, and believe in helping others.'' I bike,
hike and practice yoga; I'm a longtime vegetarian; I've never smoked. And who
doesn't believe in helping others?

Here's the catch. In order to join, you have to agree to a ''statement of
standards.'' Among the list of seven principles are these three: ''According to
the Word of God, sexual relations outside the bond of marriage is morally
wrong.'' ''Marriage is a bond between a man and woman only.'' ''Abortion is
wrong, except in a life-threatening situation to the mother.''

I disagree with each of these. And the last I checked, premarital sex, same-sex
marriage and abortion were legal in the United States. Still, I considered
consenting to the ''standards'' for the sake of my family's financial situation.
Imagine if we could put money away for college tuition, or pay down our credit
card debt, instead of sending thousands to a giant corporation. What if I
swallowed my principles and sent a contribution to Planned Parenthood as
penance?

But in the end, I simply couldn't do it. Much like many of these ministries'
members, I believe certain principles are sacred. (Altrua won't pay maternity
benefits if the pregnancy arose through ''adultery or fornication by the
member.'') For those on the religious right, their beliefs grant them exemption
from federal law, and access to decent affordable health care. Unfortunately,
there's no such loophole for clean-living, charitable nonbelievers.

So next week, I will sign up for a plan that costs nearly $1,200 a month and
that will still pay for next to none of my family's medical needs. I will have
to part ways with the O.B. practice whose doctors saw me through a complicated
pregnancy and delivered my son healthy. Because I hold one set of beliefs about
right and wrong, I am subject to federal law. If I subscribed to a different set
of morals, I would be exempt from its clutches.

Roughly 625,000 people belonged to health sharing ministries as of September;
that number is sure to rise as people like me balk at their diminishing options.
As Republicans grapple with the Affordable Care Act, it would be wise for them
to keep in mind that, like it or not, America is composed of people with
different backgrounds, ethnicities and beliefs. The answer is not to repeal the
law, which could result in more than 23 million Americans losing their coverage.
The answer is to find solutions that allow all working families to find
affordable health care that doesn't demand choosing between their ethics and
their ability to provide for their children.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/10/opinion/sunday/should-i-lie-about-my-beliefs-t
o-get-health-insurance.html

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ADAM MAIDA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 12, 2012

Follow-up resources are key to health fairs' success

BYLINE: Posted March 12, 2012.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Ethics Forum

LENGTH: 1255 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


Posted March 12, 2012.

Scenario: Should a physician participate in a health fair if it means seeing
patients on a one-time-only basis?

Health fairs are one of the most common health promotional and educational
activities in the nation's communities, and their popularity has increased in
the past few decades. They offer important health screenings, but follow-up
services can be critical.

Reply:

The objectives of most health fairs are to provide screenings, preventive
services and education at no or low cost to participants. Target audiences vary;
the fair may focus on a specific disease (cardiovascular health) or demographic
group (breast cancer screening for underserved women). The use of community
settings and outreach materials, participation of culturally and linguistically
appropriate staff and nominal cost of services eliminate many of the common
financial, logistical, linguistic and cultural barriers to screening and
preventive services.

Representing the collaborative efforts of the community, health fairs are
beneficial for all stakeholders. Many attendees have limited access to care.
Several recent studies observed that nearly half of health fair participants in
underserved and vulnerable communities do not have primary care health
professionals or health insurance. For them, the immunizations, hypertension and
blood glucose screenings and education about diet and lifestyle may be the only
such services they receive. Those who conduct the screenings have an opportunity
to publicize their clinical services and network with community organizations.
Medical students, residents and ancillary trainees benefit from the opportunity
for service education, mentoring from more senior clinicians and working in
multidisciplinary teams.

A substantial body of literature exists on health fairs, most of it describing
effective planning methods, documenting the demographics of specific events,
explaining their educational models and reporting the number of screenings
performed. A growing body of evidence describes the impact on health outcomes.
Beyond concerns of limiting liability, however, the ethical obligations of
physicians who participate in health fairs have not been examined adequately.
Because many participants have no established primary care physician, limited
access to care and inadequate or no health insurance, the ethical challenges for
physician volunteers are many.

The fairs simply cannot replace the care provided in conventional clinical
settings. Physicians who provide screening or health education have no
therapeutic relationship with participants and no knowledge of the patients'
histories. The encounters are typically one-time interactions with no
opportunities for following up or developing rapport.

At fairs that offer phlebotomy and blood work, patients must be contacted by
telephone or mail to deliver results. While most fairs have guidelines for
urgent follow-up in cases of markedly abnormal findings, those with elevated
blood pressure or blood glucose level are merely advised to contact their
primary care physicians or nurse practitioners, but what if they have none?
Herein lies the principal ethical dilemma for physicians -- and the profession.
What service do we provide when we screen for and discover a medical risk factor
that requires attention, but have no care options to offer the patient who's at
risk?

Imagine that you are a physician volunteer at a popular annual health fair held
at a community center near your office. The community and health center
organizers predict that 350 people will attend during the day. The event is
well-organized, with numerous prevention and screening stations offering
influenza vaccination, body-mass index, blood pressure, blood glucose, mobility
screening and medication review. You and five colleagues are volunteering at the
final "Ask the Doctor" station, where you will review the health fair
participants' self-reported medical histories, medication lists and results of
the screening sessions. A line forms at your station soon after the fair begins.

One participant, Mrs. W., walks up to your table. She is 56 and appears worried.
Her main concern is that she lost her job two years ago. She is uninsured and
has depleted her savings. She moved into her mother's home after losing her own
house. Her car broke down, so she takes public transportation. She walked about
a mile to the venue from the bus stop. "I saw the list of free screening tests,
so I didn't mind the walk."

Mrs. W. lists hypertension in her past medical history, but no medications for
it appear on her list. When you ask her about that, she explains that she ran
out of refills more than a year ago. She could not afford the drugs even when
she had prescriptions, and there's no clinic for uninsured patients near her
mother's home. She has tried to limit her sodium intake and remain physically
active, but her blood pressure readings at the local pharmacy have been
consistently elevated. Today it was 162/86; she is asymptomatic. She asks about
her insomnia, crying spells and low mood; she asks if there is a social worker
and where she can find a free primary care clinic. When you ask about physical
activity, she explains that there's no place to exercise around her mother's
home -- no sidewalks, busy streets and a park that's no longer safe. She knows
of no free physical activity programs in her area.

What can be done to help Mrs. W.? Her needs exceed the capacity of a health
fair. You realize that you have received no guide to local resources such as
free or low-cost clinics and social services. After confirming the absence of
suicidal ideations, you express to Mrs. W. your concern for her well-being and
advise her to call the local information and referral services number.

But imagine, again, that before the fair you and your colleagues discussed the
need for referral resources, follow-up and social services. You said, "These are
the only conditions under which we can ethically participate." Therefore, the
health fair planners invited organizations that provide supportive care
services. You introduce Mrs. W. to staff from a free clinic, including a nurse,
a clinic scheduler and a social worker who are hosting a booth at the health
fair. She receives a new patient appointment and a resource guide. "Thanks,
Doc," she says. "You cannot imagine how much you have helped me."

Despite their time constraints and resource limitations, health fairs can be
powerful outreach activities at which physicians and trainees reduce health
disparities and improve access to relevant screening and preventive care.
Physicians who volunteer should collaborate with colleagues and use their power
in planning fairs with resource guides to key health services. Physicians should
further insist that representatives from supportive services and free clinics
are invited and present. Including resources relevant to the social determinants
of health, especially addressing socioeconomic and geographic barriers access,
is a viable solution for addressing some of the challenges confronted by the
physician volunteer.

Given the ethical considerations of health fair participation, physicians must
be involved in the early planning phase to ensure that the needs of vulnerable,
underserved individuals are met -- as a moral imperative. Physicians should take
the stance that their participation is contingent upon the provision of
community resources and referral access to health care follow-up and supportive
services.

Posted March 12, 2012.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                              July 23, 2012 Monday

Business - Personal Finance - How to find pension scheme that suits best

BYLINE: Darren McKeever

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 702 words


Following on from last week's pensions article, we'll look in more detail here
about how you can find the best pension scheme for yourself and for your
employees, following the changes to workplace pensions.

All company pension schemes will need to be compliant with new government
workplace pension law, but that notwithstanding, it's really important to
consider what features are desirable for your employees and your business.

The best tip we can give you when it comes to setting up a workplace pension
scheme is to look at it as part of a bigger picture.

Pensions don't have to be set up in isolation. Why not bring them in as part of
a wider employee benefits scheme?

Employee benefits can include income protection, health insurance, travel
insurance, dental plans, cash plans, childcare vouchers, employee assistance
programs and health screening.

As with many business decisions, the use of professionals can help save a large
amount of time and money, and our advice would be to use a fee-based independent
financial adviser who will help you select the right combination of benefits for
your scheme.

An ideal scheme should allow a good range of funds to suit the different times
to retirement and different attitudes to risk that scheme members will have.

Schemes should also have a default fund that members' payments will be made to
if they don't want to select their own funds.

Access to ethical funds and cash funds (with no investment risk) can also be an
attractive feature.

If the pension scheme is not going to be actively managed by an adviser, then so
called 'life styling' funds can have an advantage. This type of fund will
gradually move money into less volatile investments (typically out of shares and
into government bonds) as the retirement date of the member approaches.

Fund performance and charges on a pension over the lifetime of the member can
dramatically impact the final size of a pension.

Charges can generally be put into two categories: firstly, the charges made by
the pension provider for the funds it offers and secondly, the charges made by
the adviser.

As with so many things, shopping around is advisable to get the best value.

Stakeholder pension schemes usually offer the lowest price and are only allowed
to charge a fixed maximum percentage. However, the usual drawback is a
restricted choice of funds.

Help yourself to find the best deal by using an independent financial adviser
who will do the research and may be able to negotiate favourable rates from
insurance companies that act as money purchase pension providers.

When offering a price for their products, insurance companies will consider the
size of the scheme in terms of number of members, total monthly contributions
and possible transfers in from existing schemes.

Because small companies will not be investing as much as larger companies, it
can be more difficult to obtain favourable terms. All good financial advisers
will balance up the charges being made by the pension funds, the quality of
those funds and the degree of choice in funds available to find the one most
suitable for you.

What about costs? Historically the cost of adviser advice was not always clear
with, in many cases, commission being taken from company schemes by the pension
providers to pay the adviser.

From January 2013, the Financial Services Authority will ban commission payments
on products sold in this way following the Retail Distribution Review although
existing schemes may continue.

A pension review may help to identify how charges are being made by your adviser
and whether this is appropriate.

Finally, once you've selected a scheme, it's vital that all the details are
properly communicated to all employees.

Again, you don't have to do this on your own - part of your adviser's job in
setting up a new scheme will be to explain the importance of pension saving and
the options available within the scheme to employees.

- Darren McKeever (dmckeever@wwfp.net) is Northern Ireland adviser of Worldwide
Financial Planning, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services
Authority. For a free pensions review, call Worldwide on 0845 230 9876, email
info@wwfp.net or click on www.wwfp.net. Follow on Twitter: @WorldwideFP.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            November 28, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Report says public in dark over flu pandemic plans: U of T centre warns lack of
public input may lead to erosion of trust, panic

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 459  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Governments preparing for a flu pandemic should develop ethical
guidelines for their plans that include health and disability insurance for
health workers and special assistance for people forced into quarantine, says a
new report released Sunday.

The report, prepared by the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics,
warns governments throughout the world -- including Canada -- are not doing
enough to engage the public in discussions about the ethical values that should
underpin pandemic preparedness plans.

Last year, the federal government released a plan that spells out how it will
prepare for, and respond to, a flu pandemic that experts say could kill millions
of people worldwide. But the detailed blueprint, although prepared with the
assistance of provinces and public-health authorities, has not had much input
from the Canadian public. That has raised questions about whether the public
would panic in a pandemic and reject government decisions about how to deal with
the crisis.

The report released Sunday by the medical ethics think-tank casts a spotlight on
that shortcoming.

"When an influenza pandemic strikes the world many people, ranging from
government and medical leaders to health-care workers, will face a host of
difficult decisions that will affect people's freedoms and their chances of
survival," says the report.

"There will be choices about the level of risk health-care workers should face
while caring for the sick, the imposition of restrictive measures such as
quarantines, the allocation of limited resources such as medicines, and the use
of travel restrictions and other measures to contain the spread of the disease."

"Governments and health-care leaders need to make the values behind their
decisions public. They should discuss the values with people who could be
affected. They need to do this in advance of a health crisis, not when people
are lining up at emergency ward doors."

Among the report's recommendations:

- Professional colleges and associations for health workers should provide,
through their codes of ethics, "clear guidance" on the "expectations and
obligations" about their duty to provide care during a pandemic.

- Governments and the health sector should ensure disability insurance and death
benefits are available to health workers and their families adversely affected
while performing their duties.

- Governments should ensure the public is aware of the rationale for restrictive
measures such as quarantine and the "consequences" of non-compliances.

- Governments should offer backup support for people who are quarantined, such
as providing them financial support in lieu of lost income and arranging for
basic needs such as grocery shopping and paying their bills.

(OTTAWA CITIZEN)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 12, 2012

Follow-up resources are key to health fairs' success

BYLINE: Posted March 12, 2012.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Ethics Forum

LENGTH: 1299 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


 Should a physician participate in a health fair if it means seeing patients on
a one-time-only basis?

Scenario: Should a physician participate in a health fair if it means seeing
patients on a one-time-only basis?

Health fairs are one of the most common health promotional and educational
activities in the nation's communities, and their popularity has increased in
the past few decades. They offer important health screenings, but follow-up
services can be critical.

Reply:

The objectives of most health fairs are to provide screenings, preventive
services and education at no or low cost to participants. Target audiences vary;
the fair may focus on a specific disease (cardiovascular health) or demographic
group (breast cancer screening for underserved women). The use of community
settings and outreach materials, participation of culturally and linguistically
appropriate staff and nominal cost of services eliminate many of the common
financial, logistical, linguistic and cultural barriers to screening and
preventive services.

Representing the collaborative efforts of the community, health fairs are
beneficial for all stakeholders. Many attendees have limited access to care.
Several recent studies observed that nearly half of health fair participants in
underserved and vulnerable communities do not have primary care health
professionals or health insurance. For them, the immunizations, hypertension and
blood glucose screenings and education about diet and lifestyle may be the only
such services they receive. Those who conduct the screenings have an opportunity
to publicize their clinical services and network with community organizations.
Medical students, residents and ancillary trainees benefit from the opportunity
for service education, mentoring from more senior clinicians and working in
multidisciplinary teams.

A substantial body of literature exists on health fairs, most of it describing
effective planning methods, documenting the demographics of specific events,
explaining their educational models and reporting the number of screenings
performed. A growing body of evidence describes the impact on health outcomes.
Beyond concerns of limiting liability, however, the ethical obligations of
physicians who participate in health fairs have not been examined adequately.
Because many participants have no established primary care physician, limited
access to care and inadequate or no health insurance, the ethical challenges for
physician volunteers are many.

The fairs simply cannot replace the care provided in conventional clinical
settings. Physicians who provide screening or health education have no
therapeutic relationship with participants and no knowledge of the patients'
histories. The encounters are typically one-time interactions with no
opportunities for following up or developing rapport.

At fairs that offer phlebotomy and blood work, patients must be contacted by
telephone or mail to deliver results. While most fairs have guidelines for
urgent follow-up in cases of markedly abnormal findings, those with elevated
blood pressure or blood glucose level are merely advised to contact their
primary care physicians or nurse practitioners, but what if they have none?
Herein lies the principal ethical dilemma for physicians -- and the profession.
What service do we provide when we screen for and discover a medical risk factor
that requires attention, but have no care options to offer the patient who's at
risk?

Imagine that you are a physician volunteer at a popular annual health fair held
at a community center near your office. The community and health center
organizers predict that 350 people will attend during the day. The event is
well-organized, with numerous prevention and screening stations offering
influenza vaccination, body-mass index, blood pressure, blood glucose, mobility
screening and medication review. You and five colleagues are volunteering at the
final "Ask the Doctor" station, where you will review the health fair
participants' self-reported medical histories, medication lists and results of
the screening sessions. A line forms at your station soon after the fair begins.

One participant, Mrs. W., walks up to your table. She is 56 and appears worried.
Her main concern is that she lost her job two years ago. She is uninsured and
has depleted her savings. She moved into her mother's home after losing her own
house. Her car broke down, so she takes public transportation. She walked about
a mile to the venue from the bus stop. "I saw the list of free screening tests,
so I didn't mind the walk."

Mrs. W. lists hypertension in her past medical history, but no medications for
it appear on her list. When you ask her about that, she explains that she ran
out of refills more than a year ago. She could not afford the drugs even when
she had prescriptions, and there's no clinic for uninsured patients near her
mother's home. She has tried to limit her sodium intake and remain physically
active, but her blood pressure readings at the local pharmacy have been
consistently elevated. Today it was 162/86; she is asymptomatic. She asks about
her insomnia, crying spells and low mood; she asks if there is a social worker
and where she can find a free primary care clinic. When you ask about physical
activity, she explains that there's no place to exercise around her mother's
home -- no sidewalks, busy streets and a park that's no longer safe. She knows
of no free physical activity programs in her area.

What can be done to help Mrs. W.? Her needs exceed the capacity of a health
fair. You realize that you have received no guide to local resources such as
free or low-cost clinics and social services. After confirming the absence of
suicidal ideations, you express to Mrs. W. your concern for her well-being and
advise her to call the local information and referral services number.

But imagine, again, that before the fair you and your colleagues discussed the
need for referral resources, follow-up and social services. You said, "These are
the only conditions under which we can ethically participate." Therefore, the
health fair planners invited organizations that provide supportive care
services. You introduce Mrs. W. to staff from a free clinic, including a nurse,
a clinic scheduler and a social worker who are hosting a booth at the health
fair. She receives a new patient appointment and a resource guide. "Thanks,
Doc," she says. "You cannot imagine how much you have helped me."

Despite their time constraints and resource limitations, health fairs can be
powerful outreach activities at which physicians and trainees reduce health
disparities and improve access to relevant screening and preventive care.
Physicians who volunteer should collaborate with colleagues and use their power
in planning fairs with resource guides to key health services. Physicians should
further insist that representatives from supportive services and free clinics
are invited and present. Including resources relevant to the social determinants
of health, especially addressing socioeconomic and geographic barriers access,
is a viable solution for addressing some of the challenges confronted by the
physician volunteer.

Given the ethical considerations of health fair participation, physicians must
be involved in the early planning phase to ensure that the needs of vulnerable,
underserved individuals are met -- as a moral imperative. Physicians should take
the stance that their participation is contingent upon the provision of
community resources and referral access to health care follow-up and supportive
services.

Monique Williams, MD, director of community outreach and assistant professor of
medicine and psychiatry, Division of Geriatrics and Nutritional Science,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                           August 27, 1986, Wednesday

ETHICS OF LIVING AND DYING

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGES, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 366 words


A LOT OF US READING THE PAPER TODAY have an excellent chance of being around 30,
40 and maybe even 50 years from now. While generally that is good news, it could
create some serious ethical problems with health insurance in our lifetimes.

There is no question but that we are on the frontier of major medical advances.
Only recently new forms of vaccines were invented that use genetic engineering
techniques. There were major advances in heart, liver and kidney transplants
with the advent and improvement in the use of immunity-suppressing rugs.

But it is unlikely, in this age of Gramm-Rudman and burgeoning budget deficits,
that Congress will make heart or liver transplants an automatic, free public
program.

The question is: Who will pay?

If private insurers follow their current direction, they will offer coverage of
such high-cost medical procedures as part of major medical expenses. That's fine
for those who are employed or are the dependents of those with good jobs.

But where does that leave the unemployed, those with less generous benefits or
those with individual policies that are far less likely to offer such benefits
without exorbitant premiums?

Where does it leave health maintenance organizations and other new health- care
delivery systems? And where, indeed, would this leave Medicare patients in need
of transplants not covered by that program?

Among those in need, will society pay for a replacement liver for an alcoholic
or a lung transplant for a heavy smoker?

This country has never been good at discussing ethical questions in economic
terms, even when the costs to society could be substantial. Can we reach a
national consensus on who should be a prospect for an organ transplant? Would a
country delighting in the physical ability of its 75-year- old president
determine that those eligible for Medicare are too old for organ transplants?

The prospect of heart transplants for every older person whose heart is wearing
out is mind-boggling. But if the power to extend life is in the hands of our
physicians, who will have the responsibility of saying no?

We have no answers. But we think these questions need to be considered.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1986 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              299 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           West Sussex Country Times

                               February 29, 2008

Fairtrade fun

LENGTH: 220  words


CAMPAIGNERS have this week been urging businesses in Horsham to switch to
ethical products as Fairtrade Fortnight hits the town.

Companies which pledge their support will be added to a local Fairtrade
directory and website.

The movement will also be in Swan Walk in Horsham tomorrow, Saturday (March 1),
offering free ethical goodies to shoppers.

Chair of Fairtrade Horsham, Gaynor Cooper, said: "There are already several
companies and organisations that offer Fairtrade coffee and tea to their staff,
such as Marks and Spencer, Citizens Advice Bureau and Royal SunAlliance, but we
think the number could be much larger.

"People would be happy to know that they can so easily make a difference to the
lives of producers in the developing world."

The campaign is expected to continue throughout 2008.

There will also be a display of some of the more recent products to become
available in Horsham.

And the first joint Fairtrade and Farmers Market, organised by Horsham District
Council, will be held in the Carfax from Friday March 7 to Saturday March 8.

Many organisations will be running events during the fortnight such as the 19
certified Fairtrade churches.

There will also be talks, lessons and activities in schools and community
groups.

Events can be advertised on the Fairtrade Horsham website at www.fair
tradehorsham.org.uk.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           West Sussex Country Times

                               February 29, 2008

Fairtrade fun

LENGTH: 220  words


CAMPAIGNERS have this week been urging businesses in Horsham to switch to
ethical products as Fairtrade Fortnight hits the town.

Companies which pledge their support will be added to a local Fairtrade
directory and website.

The movement will also be in Swan Walk in Horsham tomorrow, Saturday (March 1),
offering free ethical goodies to shoppers.

Chair of Fairtrade Horsham, Gaynor Cooper, said: "There are already several
companies and organisations that offer Fairtrade coffee and tea to their staff,
such as Marks and Spencer, Citizens Advice Bureau and Royal SunAlliance, but we
think the number could be much larger.

"People would be happy to know that they can so easily make a difference to the
lives of producers in the developing world."

The campaign is expected to continue throughout 2008.

There will also be a display of some of the more recent products to become
available in Horsham.

And the first joint Fairtrade and Farmers Market, organised by Horsham District
Council, will be held in the Carfax from Friday March 7 to Saturday March 8.

Many organisations will be running events during the fortnight such as the 19
certified Fairtrade churches.

There will also be talks, lessons and activities in schools and community
groups.

Events can be advertised on the Fairtrade Horsham website at www.fair
tradehorsham.org.uk.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              June 30, 2006 Friday

Reply Letters and emails: Big pharmas big sell to doctors

BYLINE: Prof Sheila Hollins , Dr Mike Shooter and Professor Sue Bailey

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 241 words


Sarah Boseley (Drug firms a danger to health, June 26) has helpfully drawn our
attention to the report about breaches to the ethical marketing codes of the
pharmaceutical industry. We have spoken out about many of these issues, having
recognised the influence that marketing may have on medical practice. We have
succeeded in reducing the drug company "sponsorship" of our work to less than
5%, and have clear guidelines addressing both corporate and individual
relationships with the industry.

We recognise we need to do more: for example, to raise awareness among our
members of the marketing methods in use. In particular, we hope that our members
will understand why patients and carers should know what influences might have
affected their treatment recommendations. We are reviewing our own ethical
guidelines and are grateful to our patients and carers' committee for their
advice. Some of our work would benefit from continuing pharmaceutical company
financial support, but we would prefer companies to contribute to pooled funds
without strings attached.

Many of our members rely on "sponsorship" to enable them to attend conferences
to update their knowledge. This is because continuing professional development
is not being funded by employers, unlike for other health professionals. NHS
Trusts should review this practice.

Prof Sheila Hollins president

Dr Mike Shooter past president

Professor Sue Bailey registrar

Royal College of Psychiatrists

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Daily Item (Sunbury, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday

Conestoga files federal lawsuit challenging national healthcare mandates

BYLINE: Ashley Wislock, The Daily Item, Sunbury, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 551 words


Dec. 13--BEAVERTOWN -- Conestoga Wood Specialties has filed a federal lawsuit
claiming the Affordable Care Act's birth-control mandate is a violation of the
Mennonite business owner's constitutional rights and "deeply held religious
beliefs."

The Lancaster County-based business with operations in Beavertown and Beaver
Springs alleges that the mandate, which requires that most employers offer
health insurance that covers birth control, would "be sinful and immoral" to
participate in, the lawsuit said.

Conestoga's mission statement says the company "operates in a professional
environment founded upon the highest ethical, moral and Christian principles."

"(Conestoga) provides health insurance benefits to their employees that omits
coverage of abortifacient drugs," the lawsuit reads. "The plan renews each year
on Jan. 1, the next renewal date (being) on Jan. 1, 2013, creating the very real
potential for harm to the plantiffs and their sincerely held religious beliefs
if forced to include such coverage."

The lawsuit, filed in the U.S. District Court in Philadelphia, is asking for an
injunction delaying the application of the mandate.

The claims are based on the First and Fifth amendments to the U.S. Constitution
-- freedom of religion and protection against abuse of government authority in a
legal procedure, respectively -- and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.

Conestoga's federal lawsuit is the 41st and most recent against portions of
Obamacare.

The main issue for Conestoga's owners -- Norman, Norman L. and Anthony Hahn --
is the inclusion of abortifacient drugs, such as Plan B, also known as the
"morning after pill" and the counseling and education requirements related to
these services, said Charles Proctor, the lawyer representing Conestoga in the
case.

"This is a direct violation of my clients' deeply held religious beliefs in the
sanctity of human life," he said.

The penalties for not providing these services would be devastating for the
business, Proctor said.

"The penalties are so severe that they could put my client out of business," he
said.

There are 41 lawsuits challenging the birth-control mandate in federal court.
Some -- including one by the Pittsburgh Catholic diocese -- have been tossed
out, but Proctor remains confident his clients will be awarded an exemption.

While Lisa Wehr, assistant director of Family Planning Plus in Lewisburg,
understands the concerns of religious individuals about providing birth control,
there are numerous health benefits provided to women by the medication, she
said.

"(Insurance) covers other types of medication, so (birth control) should be
something that they cover as well," she said. "It's like any other medication."

Scenarios like having pregnancies too close together can be dangerous for
mothers and are preventable with access to birth control, Wehr said.

"I do feel that it's important for a woman's health to be able to protect
herself," she said.

However, birth control is more accessible than ever in Pennsylvania, where new
programs are making it easier to get affordable contraceptives, Wehr said.

"It's much better now," she said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

___ (c)2012 The Daily Item (Sunbury, Pa.) Visit The Daily Item (Sunbury, Pa.) at
www.dailyitem.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20121213-DN-Conestoga-files-federal-lawsuit-challenging-national-healthcare-mand
ates-20121213

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DN


                         Copyright 2012 The Daily Item


                              303 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 28, 2014 Friday

Pyle: The biggest lie in Utah politics this year

BYLINE: By George Pyle The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 707 words


In a couple of weeks, the Pulitzer-winning fact-checkers at PolitiFact.com will
come out with their Lie of the Year award.

Last year that dubious achievement went to Barack Obama for his "If you like
your health insurance, you can keep it" line. The year before, it went to Mitt
Romney for his claim that Jeep was moving production jobs from Ohio to China.

(Some conservative pundits objected to that PolitiFact ruling, saying that
Romney only said Jeep was adding jobs in China, not moving them, which was
true.)

Another big political lie is about to bubble its way up in Utah. And that is the
claim that our unique caucus and convention system is the last bastion of
grassroots politics because it keeps out the evil influence of Big Money.

I call bushwa.

First, let us ignore the suggestion that Utah Republicans, usually the first to
defend the Citizens United constitutional right of rich people to spend all they
want to influence elections, are getting the vapors over the prospect of big,
dark money in their politics.

Then reject the idea that the Utah Republican Party has a legal or ethical leg
to stand on in challenging Senate Bill 54, which the Legislature passed early
this year as a way of stopping the Count My Vote referendum drive.

Count My Vote was a campaign to replace the caucus/convention system, which
favors extremist activists over the much larger number of (by Utah standards)
middle-of-the-road voters, with the much more democratic process of primary
elections. The status quo, after all, leaves us with voter turnout well south of
50 percent and a Legislature that focuses on tea party foolishness when polls
show the people want things like more money for schools, cleaner air and ethical
standards in politics.

The petition drive, which was rolling toward success, was shelved in favor of
SB54. It allows the parties to keep caucuses and conventions but also provides
an alternate route ccc the kind of petition drive that exists in many other
states ccc to the primary ballot.

The Republicans' absurd legal argument is that it is a violation of the First
Amendment to tell parties how to pick candidates for the ballots the state pays
for. The more frequently heard claim, though, is that handfuls of people
gathering in school gyms and living rooms, and the county and state delegates
they elect, are money-proof because those perceptive self-selected citizens can
look directly into the candidates' eyes, if not their souls.

Some folks may be foolish enough to buy that argument. Orrin Hatch wasn't.

Sen. Hatch's last re-election campaign, fought largely through the
caucus-convention process against fellow Republican Dan Liljenquist, cost the
incumbent's campaign donors $13 million. Liljenquist only managed to scrape up
some $844,000.

Millions more were spent by outside groups, much of it from donors who legally
cannot be traced, mostly on doom-filled attack ads. (Helpful details from the
OpenSecrets.org website from the Center for Responsive Politics.)

That's a lot of money spent to sway pure-of-heart caucus-goers and delegates who
can't be swayed by money.

Two years before that, the poster boy of caucus apologists, Sen. Mike Lee, was
elected after surviving a state GOP convention where delegates were hot to oust
long-time Sen. Robert Bennett for his vote to prevent a global economic
depression by bailing out the banks.

Lee did spend a lot less than Bennett ccc $1.8 million to Bennett's $3 million.
But, according to the Federal Election Commission, Lee has already raised ccc
and spent ccc about $1 million in the last 22 months in anticipation of an
election still two years away.

In 2012, it cost Republican Mia Love $2 million to almost beat Democrat Rep. Jim
Matheson, who spent a similar amount. This year, according to reports only
though Oct. 15, Love spent $4 million to narrowly defeat Doug Owens, who had
only spent $567,000.

Money distorts Utah politics now. It will distort it under SB54. But, at least,
under the envisioned new system, that money will have to fool a lot more of us
in order to work.

George Pyle, a Tribune editorial writer, thinks public officer holders should be
selected through cutthroat matches of Trivial Pursuit. Challenge him at
gpyle@sltrib.com or Twitter: @debatestate

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 999 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright (c) 2017 Saint Louis University School of Law
                       Saint Louis University Law Journal

                                  Spring, 2017

                       Saint Louis University Law Journal

                             61 St. Louis L.J. 391

LENGTH: 4061 words

TEACHING HEALTH LAW: HEALTH LAW, PUBLIC LAW, AND SOCIAL JUSTICE

NAME: SIDNEY D. WATSON *

BIO: * Jane and Bruce Robert Professor of Law, Saint Louis University School of
Law, Center for Health Law Studies.

TEXT:
 [*391]

   I have taught Health Law for almost three decades. In the early years, the
course was primarily about private law, the application of contract and tort
principles in the context of health insurance coverage and medical care. Federal
law of Medicare, Medicaid, EMTALA, and federal civil rights laws always made an
appearance. Other federal statutes were added as they came along: HIPAA, the
Americans with Disabilities Act, and GINA. Over the years, the course focused
more and more on federal statutes until the passage of the Affordable Care Act
("ACA") in 2010 completed the transition.

   Health law is now a public law course. n1 It focuses on federal statutes, and
students need to understand the role of Congress, federal agencies, the states,
and federal courts. The course explores myriad forms of federalism including
Medicaid's cooperative federalism, the ACA's "fall back" federalism where the
federal government steps in only if the states opt out, and old-fashioned
federal law preemption of state law. Health law is now statutory interpretation
and administrative law principles in the context of health insurance coverage
and health care.

   Health law continues to be applied law: public law that affects health,
health insurance, health care, and public health. About a third to a half of my
health law course is devoted to providing students with a better understanding
of medical decision making, the organization of health care delivery system,
insurance theory, health disparities, and the social determinants of health -
how where we live, work, play, and pray impact health.

   Most importantly, Health Law remains a powerful lens through which to explore
issues of social justice, social welfare, and law. We all get sick and need
medical care. Many of my students and their families have had serious health
problems and struggled to access medical care. Some have been bankrupted
financially because of the costs of medical care. They know  [*392]  something
about health and health care. This course is an opportunity to explore what
equity, fairness, and justice mean when we talk about health and healthcare.

   I. Where to Start: Introducing Students to Health Law, Public Law, and Social
Justice

 The first three classes of my Health Law course are billed as an "Introduction
to Federalism and Health Policy." The first day is about health, health care,
legal rights, and duties. The second day focuses on the Supreme Court, the ACA,
and health policy. The third day explores the Supreme Court, the ACA, and
constitutional law. This introduction covers the Supreme Court decisions in both
King v. Burwell n2 and National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius
n3 I begin the course by immersing students in statutory analysis,
constitutional federalism, and public policy to make it clear that health law is
public law, to highlight some of the recurring issues in the course, and begin
the conversation about health law and social justice.

   A. Day 1: Health, Health Care, Legal Rights, and Moral Duties

 For the first class, I ask the students to consider three questions as they
read the assignment: What does it mean to have a "right to health" or a "right
to health care"? Does society have a moral obligation to provide access to
health care and, if so, how far does this obligation extend? What does the
structure of a country's health care system tell us about its approach towards
the right to health care? n4

   The day's reading includes three pages from the Furrow and Johnson casebook,
n5 excerpts from the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in
Medicine entitled "An Ethical Framework for Access to Health Care," n6 and T. R.
Reid's book on health care systems around the world, The Healing of America. n7
The casebook provides an introduction to health insurance and its role in
financing health care. It introduces students to Deborah Stone's classic
description of two visions of justice - social solidarity and actuarial fairness
- that compete in American health insurance policy and  [*393]  result in The
Struggle for the Soul of Health Insurance. n8 The "Ethical Framework" excerpt
presents the ethical arguments for a societal obligation to provide access to
health care and the distinction between legal rights and moral obligations. T.
R. Reid's book discusses how health care systems reflect a country's history,
politics, and national values.

   The first class opens with a story from T. R. Reid's book: Nikki White,
twenty-two years old and a recent college graduate, is diagnosed with lupus, a
serious but treatable disease. Because Nikki is sick and this is pre-ACA, she
cannot get private health insurance. She also cannot qualify for Medicaid. Nikki
dies at age 32. Her doctor says, "Nikki didn't die from lupus ... . It was a
lack of access to health care that killed Nikki White." n9

   Nikki White's story gives the students a real life, real person context to
begin discussing the legal and ethical questions posed for the day and that
underlie all of health law: Should society have a moral obligation to provide
access to health care? Is health care different from things like food and rent
that we typically leave to the market? How far does a moral obligation to
provide health care extend? How do other countries create a "right to health
care"? How do those rights reflect those countries' history and values? Where
might those laws be found, in the Constitution, statutory law, somewhere else?
How are legal rights different from legal obligations?

   By the end of the class, students have had the opportunity to discuss why
health and health care are important or, as they sometimes phrase it, "special"
for both individuals and society. As one student said, "Individuals need good
health to thrive, and society needs healthy people who can be productive members
of society." The first class sets a framework for thinking about health and
health care as a social good and a social obligation, and the role of law in
allocating that social good. It places health law firmly in the public law
realm. It brings issues of social justice to the forefront.

   The students also start to think about how law sometimes creates rights and
other times imposes obligations, an important concept that we return to often
when studying the ACA that imposes a tax penalty obligation to have affordable
health insurance rather than a right to health insurance. The students typically
explore what makes a law a "right" and whether rights must be enforceable to be
"law," again, fundamental concepts for many ACA provisions and other health law
statutes that do not provide for a private right of action.

   The students begin to explore the four recurring principles and problems of
health policy and health law: how to balance access, cost, quality, and choice.
The "Ethical Framework" reading prompts discussion about how to define  [*394]
adequate and equitable access to health insurance coverage and care. Adequate
cannot mean all beneficial care, but how should adequate be defined? Equity
requires not just that adequate care be available, but that patients be able to
access care without excessive burdens, be they the financial cost of care or
non-financial costs like wait times and travel times. Students begin to think
about costs at different levels: for the patient, family, government, and
society. They begin to see how quality and choice lurk within each issue and
every discussion.

   Finally, the first day of class begins to identify some societal values that
drive health law. What should be the roles of the public or private sectors?
What are the relative roles for the individual, family, society, or government?
What is the role of markets? Should law be enacted at the federal, state, or
local level?

   B. Day 2: Supreme Court, ACA, and Health Policy

 For the second class, students read an edited version of the Supreme Court
decision in King v. Burwell, which decided that the ACA's premium tax credit
subsidies are available to help people purchase individual insurance in states
that use the federal Exchange as well as in states that set up their own
Exchange. n10 I ask students to come to class prepared to discuss three
questions related to the case: (1) What challenges have states and the federal
government faced with health insurance reform efforts intended to expand access
to health insurance and how does the ACA try to address these challenges? (2)
What health policies underlie the ACA and what role do these policies play in
the majority and minority's legal reasoning? (3) What do Justice Roberts and
Justice Scalia's opinions tell us about the passage of the ACA that is important
for lawyers to know as they interpret the act's provisions for their clients?

   In class, we begin again with Nikki White's story: Why couldn't she get
health insurance? What was the access problem the ACA was trying to solve in the
individual market? What was the challenge that confounded earlier state efforts?
What is the solution that both Massachusetts and the ACA adopted?

   The beginning of Justice Roberts's opinion in King v. Burwell provides the
students with a good introduction to insurance concepts like guaranteed issue,
community rating, adverse selection, and how and why health insurance pools
"death spiral." n11 It also offers a brief history of failed state health
insurance reform efforts in the individual market. The opinion then explains how
Massachusetts and the ACA rely on three interlocking provisions - guaranteed
issue and community rating, premium tax credit subsidies, and a coverage mandate
- to expand the individual health insurance pool by attracting younger  [*395]
and healthier people in an attempt to reduce premiums and lower insurance costs.
This discussion gives students a concrete example of the complex interplay of
access, cost, quality, and choice in the health insurance context.

   I provide the students with a good bit of history about the passage of both
Massachusetts Health Reform and the ACA. The description of Massachusetts's
experience focuses on how its process relied on bringing together all the key
stakeholders, identifying alternative law reform strategies, and working toward
consensus on how the state reform law would be structured. I stress that
Massachusetts pushed to build consensus because an earlier reform effort passed
the legislature but failed in the implementation phase because of opposition
from a key stakeholder, the hospital industry. I also point out that the
Massachusetts health reform bill passed with strong bi-partisan support and was
highly popular, with even the Boston Red Sox helping to promote it.

   I have the students identify who they think should be at the table to talk
about a Massachusetts health reform law and their list looks very similar to the
group that came to the table in Massachusetts: consumer groups, faith leaders,
large employers, small employers, labor unions, hospitals, insurers, health care
professionals (not just doctors), and employers, state agency officials, and
legislative leaders. This exercise helps the students begin thinking about who
is impacted by health law, how different people and different provider groups
may be differently impacted, and who tends to weigh in as stakeholders during
the lawmaking process. As we move through the course, we repeatedly refer back
to these groups asking how different laws may impact their interests and
concerns.

   I then contrast how different the debate and process were for passage of the
ACA. The ACA remains politically unpopular, in part, because it was passed on a
party line vote using procedural legislative maneuvers that many citizens feel
are suspect. I try to make this discussion an opportunity for students on both
sides of this political debate to understand why the American public continues
to be angry and divided over the ACA.

   I want the students to move beyond the political debate to begin to
understand how the extraordinary process by which the ACA was passed impacts the
structure and language of the ACA and the challenges and opportunities it
presents for lawyers advising clients. n12 I refer the students to a paragraph
in Justice Roberts's opinion that talks about how the ACA contains "more than a
few examples of inartful drafting," was written behind closed doors, used the
budget reconciliation process, and "does not reflect the type of care and
deliberation that one might expect of such significant legislation." n13 I
[*396]  explain the legislative process by which ACA was passed. I want the
students to understand the federal legislative process by which health laws are
generally enacted, including the roles of several key committees. I want them to
understand the special rules that attach to Budget Reconciliation bills and the
important role they play in health policy. Most importantly, I want the students
to understand that the ACA is a statute that did not go through a conference
committee and what that means for lawyers: not only is there no conference
committee report, but the legislation itself was never scrubbed, no one
carefully reviewed the bill prior to passage to clean up grammar and punctuation
errors, and make sure that terms and language are consistent throughout.

   With this background in legislative process and why they should expect
inconsistencies and vagaries in the ACA, the class returns to King v. Burwell to
examine the case through the lens of administrative law and statutory
interpretation. At my school, students take Health Law in the fall of their
second year. They have not yet taken a course in statutory analysis or
administrative law so I walk them through the case. I explain what Chevron
deference is, why the issue of whether a statutory term is "ambiguous" is key,
and why neither party argued for Chevron deference in this case. I also explain
why Justice Roberts's conclusion that interpreting the meaning of premium tax
credit provision is "too big and important to leave to an agency" (my term, not
his) is a big deal for the field of administrative law and something they will
see revisited when they take that course.

   We conclude the class by talking about Justice Roberts's approach to
statutory analysis in King v. Burwell that reads the contested sections of the
ACA "with a view to their place in the overall statutory scheme." n14 I
emphasize how Justice Roberts's approach places health policy at the forefront
of ACA statutory analysis. Health lawyers need to understand not only how the
ACA was passed, but what its proponents were trying to do and how the various
provision interact with each other to be able to interpret the statute.

   C. Day 3: Supreme Court, ACA, and Constitutional Law

 The assignment for day three is the portion of the NFIB v. Sebelius decision
that addresses the constitutionality of the individual tax penalty mandate. In
reading the case excerpt, I ask the students to focus on four questions: How
does the individual mandate impact access, quality, cost, and choice? What
constitutional authority does Congress have to impose the individual mandate?
What constitutional authority does Congress have to regulate private insurance?
What, if any, authority do states have to impose an individual mandate?

    [*397]  I begin class by asking: How does the individual mandate impact
access, quality, cost, and choice? This gives the students an opportunity to
discuss how the three legs of the ACA individual market reforms - guaranteed
issue combined with community rating, premium tax credits, and the individual
tax penalty mandate - work together in an attempt to grow the risk pool for the
individual market. The health policy portion of today's class focuses on the
role of the tax penalty.

   I then ask the students to hark back to the Massachusetts health reform
process and think about what other options the stakeholder groups might consider
in lieu of a tax penalty? The students quickly come up with ideas for criminal
law and civil law penalties not tied to income taxation, drawing on analogies
from auto insurance and driver license requirements. Some are familiar with
auto-enrollment system used for Medicare Part A. Others suggest lower premiums
or a premium surcharge as an incentive to enroll when younger and stay enrolled.

   This discussion serves a few purposes. One, it clarifies the difference
between laws that require a person to do something, true legal mandates, and the
"play or pay" nature of Massachusetts health reform and the ACA. Under both, no
one is forced to purchase health insurance, but some people who do not will pay
a tax penalty. This is one of the issues the Court had to address in NFIB. This
discussion helps flesh out the distinction.

   Two, it gives students an opportunity to consider why Massachusetts and the
ACA would pick a "play or pay option" rather than a true mandate. It also raises
the question of why policy makers would want to get health coverage embroiled in
something as unpopular as income taxes and the IRS.

   Three, it helps the students start to realize how little coercive power the
ACA's individual tax penalty mandate carries. The penalty amounts are relatively
small compared to the cost of health insurance, many people are exempt from the
tax penalty, and the IRS has few tools, other than deductions from income tax
refunds, to collect the penalty. It is neither a crime nor a civil wrong not to
purchase health insurance. The choice not to buy merely carries with it a
potential tax consequence. Is this a legal duty to have health insurance or some
more akin to an expression of a moral obligation?

   Revisiting Massachusetts health reform also provides a good jumping off point
to discuss constitutional federalism, the limits of congressional power, and
NFIB v. Sebelius. I ask the students what federal constitutional authority
Massachusetts has to impose a health insurance mandate on people? I point them
to Justice Roberts's comment in NFIB, "The Commerce Clause is not a general
license to regulate an individual from cradle to grave ... . Any police power to
regulate individuals as such, as opposed to their activities, remains  [*398]
vested in the States." n15 I also have them read with me a paragraph from
Jacobson v. Massachusetts, a 1905 Supreme Court case, describing the scope of
the police power as embracing reasonable regulation to protect public health and
public safety. n16 We also discuss the similarities between the Massachusetts
individual tax penalty mandate and of the requirement to be vaccinated that the
Supreme Court upheld in Jacobson v. Massachusetts.

   We then turn to NFIB v. Sebelius, a case about constitutional law, not
statutory analysis. I point out that Justice Roberts says repeatedly the case is
about federal versus state powers, not about health policy. The issue is whether
Congress had the constitutional authority to impose a tax penalty insurance
mandate.

   We begin with the taxing power issue, using the day's earlier discussion to
flesh out the Government's argument in NFIB that the tax penalty mandate was not
an order to buy insurance but a tax on those who do not. We revisit how the
politics surrounding the passage of the ACA and President Obama's promise of no
new taxes plays out in the language of the statute and the litigation. The
students get an opportunity to opine whether the ACA language calling the
payment a "penalty" rather than a "tax" was thoughtful legislative drafting or
nearly fatal poor draftsmanship, saved by a five-to-four Supreme Court majority.

   For the Commerce Clause, we do a little parsing of the five-to-four decision
on whether the individual tax penalty mandate regulates activity or inactivity,
but I leave most of that discussion to the students' Constitutional Law class.
We spend more time getting clear that all the parties and justices agree that
both health insurance and health care are activities in interstate commerce and
thus subject to Congress's constitutional authority to regulate.

   We end the day with a caution that health law is now highly federalized
public law. There are limits on congressional power, and careful lawyers and
policy makers must pay attention to those limits. However, Congress has a great
deal of authority to regulate health care and most of the Health Law course will
be about those federal laws. The states have important roles to play - as in the
decision whether or not to set up a health insurance exchange or to expand
Medicaid. We will be examining many different forms of federalism. We will be
looking at both constitutional and statutory limits on federal-state
relationships.

   We conclude our introduction to health law by returning to Nikki White. As we
study the ACA and other federal statutes, what rights and duties do they impose
on Nikki and other Americans? What obligations do they impose on the state and
federal government? How do these statutes define adequate health  [*399]
coverage and care? What burdens do they impose on Nikki, her family and society?
What does equity, fairness, and justice mean as we talk about health and
healthcare?

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See Abbe R. Gluck, Why Health Lawyers Must Be Public-Law Lawyers: Health
Law in the Age of the Modern Regulatory State, 18 J. Health Care L. & Pol'y 323
(2015). My thanks to Abbe Gluck, Abigail Moncrieff, and others who have stressed
that the now statutory nature of the body of health law demands that we
conceptualize the field of public rather than private law.





n2.  135 S. Ct. 2480 (2015).





n3.  132 S. Ct. 2566 (2012).





n4.  This is how Professor Nadia Sawicki began her 2015 Health Law class. She
shared her syllabus and this idea with me. My appreciation to Professor Sawicki
and the many other generous health law colleagues who have shared so many good
ideas over the years.





n5.  Barry R. Furrow, Thomas L. Greaney, Sandra H. Johnson, Timothy S. Jost &
Robert L. Schwartz, Health Law: Cases, Materials and Problems 3-6 (7th ed.
2013).





n6.  Bonnie Steinbock, Alex John London & John D. Arras, Ethical Issues in
Modern Medicine: Contemporary Readings in Bioethics 191 (7th ed. 2009).





n7.  T. R. Reid, The Healing of America: A Global Quest for Better, Cheaper, and
Fairer Health Care (2009).





n8.  See Deborah A. Stone, The Struggle for the Soul of Health Insurance, 18 J.
Health Pol., Pol'y & L. 287 (1993).





n9.  Reid, supra note 7, at 2.





n10.  135 S. Ct. 2480, 2488-96 (2015).





n11.  Id. at 2482.





n12.  For an excellent article detailing this process and how it effects the
work of health lawyers, see Gluck, supra note 1.





n13.  King, 135 S. Ct. at 2492.





n14.  Id.





n15.  Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus. v. Sebelius, 132 S. Ct. 2566, 2591 (2012).





n16.  Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U.S. 11 (1905) (excerpted in Furrow et al.,
supra note 5, at 74-78).


                              305 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           February 19, 2008, Tuesday

Claiming for unworked hours

BYLINE: Joe Joseph

SECTION: FEATURES; Times2; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 296 words


A colleague who works as an agency locum consultant in an NHS trust claims for
hours that are not worked. On several occasions I've noticed this person has no
list of work to do yet claims for the unworked hours. I find this behaviour
despicable and dishonest. I feel like informing the management, but the person
who signs the forms is a friend of mine: it will reflect badly on her.

Which is more ethical? To blow the whistle on a colleague who is milking money
out of an organisation - any organisation, let alone a state-funded health
service - even if it means landing in the soup a friend whose job it is to
police such employees to ensure that all their payment claims are legitimate? Or
is it more ethical to protect that friend, even if such loyalty means leaving an
agency locum free to carry on earning money for work he or she has not done?

The agency locum is, indeed, behaving dishonestly. You are right to want to curb
him. But friendship demands that you do so in a way that does not result in your
management friend paying the price. In signing off the locum's worksheets, your
friend is assuming the agency locum is honest; that doctors behave ethically. It
would be cruel if she were punished for trusting a medical co-worker.

For your solution to be ethical, you would have to ensure that your friend is
insulated from the fallout; the equivalent of the police looking after a crucial
witness (although obviously stopping sort of enrolling her in a witness
protection programme).

If you alert her to the fraud, while spreading the word that managers have
discovered that some agency locums are billing for phantom hours and plan to
make a public example of the first fraudster that they unmask, you should
engineer a successful, and ethical, outcome, shouldn't you?

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               November 30, 1998

Alco-shares are not ethical says trust

SECTION: Business: Companies, Pg.5

LENGTH: 271 words


AN NHS Trust has pulled more than GBP 7,000 worth of shares out of the drinks
industry after its officials ruled cash earmarked for health care must be
invested more ethically.

Combined Healthcare sold the stocks it held in booze giants Bass, Greenhalls and
Diageo - a company merged from Guinness.

They were among GBP 300,000 investments held by the Trust which runs long -stay
hospitals and community care in North Staffordshire.

The money has built up over the years from donations and wills from the public.

Trusts in other parts of Britain invest some of their charitable funds in
tobacco products and even the armaments industry.

Following the introduction of a new ethical investment policy, Combined
Healthcare screened its share portfolio and found cash sunk in the alcohol
industry - but there were no shares in arms or tobacco companies.

A spokesman for the Bucknall-based trust said: "It was felt as a healthcare
provider, alcohol, tobacco and armaments related industries had to be excluded
from our investments on ethical grounds."

All charitable funds were formally held and invested by health authorities
before the formation of NHS trusts.

In previous years North Staffordshire Health Authority invested cash in alcohol
and even gambling companies.Officials argued they had a responsibility to reap
the highest yields possible on money held on behalf of the public.

And they claimed that alcohol was not harmful to health if taken ion moderation.

But the change of heart has come as an increasing number of hospital beds are
being filled by patients suffering from alcohol related illnesses.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1998 The Sentinel


                              307 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                             July 27, 1999 Tuesday

Testing drugs on kids raises ethical questions;
MEDICINE: Parents, some strapped for funds, sign the consent forms. But
treatment and research aren't always compatible.

BYLINE: LIZ KOWALCZYK, The Orange County Register

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1260 words


. <P>It wasn't the all-day temper tantrums that most frightened Ericka's mom. Or
the weeping, the chaos in her bedroom, or her refusal to see friends. It was the
phone call. <P>When another parent phoned to say Ericka had talked of suicide,
Vicki Adkisson was terrified. Without health insurance, mental health benefits,
or so much as $150 for a month's worth of anti-depressants, she had no idea
where to turn. <P>Then unexpectedly, she saw her answer in a Sunday newspaper
advertisement. <P>Ericka, 11, of Fullerton, would become a human research
subject. <P>From one-half to two-thirds of drugs given to children, including
many popular antibiotics, are prescribed "off label" _ meaning they were tested
only on adults, said the Food and Drug Administration. <P>But with new
regulations and financial incentives for pharmaceutical companies to test drugs
on children, the number of clinical trials for kids is expected to explode. Over
the past year the FDA has received 130 proposals from drug companies for large
clinical trials on kids _ twice the number in the years from 1991 to 1998
combined. <P>"We really don't have enough information on children about safety,
proper doses and effectiveness," said Dr. Ed McCabe, chief of the pediatric
department at the University of California, Los Angeles. "Perhaps we've
overprotected children. " Parents are already being asked to decide.

The University of California, Irvine, is about to start its first depression
drug trials in children; the university will enroll 20 kids ages 6 to 14 to
compare Remeron with a placebo _ an inactive sugar pill. <P>And the private
for-profit Irvine Clinical Research Center is hiring a second child psychiatrist
so it can double the number of trials for kids to four. Ericka's mom enrolled
her in one of the center's first clinical trials testing Prozac in children.
<P>As the number of trials continues to grow, some say, so will the ethical
questions. Can children as young as 6 consent to complex medical experiments?
What will happen to a child who needs long-term care? And will parents
frantically casting about for help make good decisions? <P>"Is that free choice?
" said Alexander Capron, a medical ethicist at the University of Southern
California. "Or is that exploitation of people's desperation? " Adkisson admits
she was desperate when she enrolled Ericka. But she's glad she did it. <P>Ericka
received rigorous evaluations from three child psychiatrists and a comprehensive
physical _ all for free. She visited Dr. Julie Oldroyd at least every other
week, and side effects were closely monitored. <P>"They were very upfront about
the risks, and it was a drug I was familiar with," Adkisson said. "Otherwise I
wouldn't have done it. <P>But honestly, I don't know what I would have done. I
could not take the chance of her killing herself. " Initially Ericka didn't want
to enroll, particularly when she read that a technician would stick her with a
needle and draw her blood three times. <P>"I said, `Ericka, we need to get you
better. ' It wasn't a choice at that point," her mom said. <P>And Ericka did get
better. So much better that her mom was convinced she was on Prozac, not the
placebo. Four months after she started in January, she hadn't had one tantrum.
Then they received a shock. <P>Six months into the trial, Eli Lilly called for
half the kids who had improved to stop the drug and half to continue. They
wanted to determine if the benefits were long-lasting. Those who had not
improved significantly according to doctors' measurements were dropped _
including Ericka. <P>Oldroyd said that's the disadvantage of a clinical trial _
children who need long-term care may not get it. In this case, Oldroyd still
sees Ericka and Eli Lilly agreed to provide Prozac for at least three months
more. <P>Oldroyd also worries about depressed children who have learning
disabilities. In a clinical trial doctors are concerned with their mood only _
they don't treat underlying causes. She said she won't enroll children who need
alternative therapy, and that any clinic that signs up 100 percent of kids who
apply is not properly screening them. <P>Dr. Sanford Leikin, medical compliance
officer for the Office for Protection From Research Risk, said his agency has
received several complaints about clinical trials for children _ but so far the
number has not increased. <P>Children who are at least 8 years old sign a form
that outlines the procedures in simple language. Depression is referred to as
"sadness" and electrodes are called "sticky connectors. " But in the end, Leiken
said, it's still the parents who sign the consent form. It's still the parents
who make the final decision. <P>"A child might accept multiple procedures that
an adult would never tolerate, because he's dependent on the parents," he said.
<P>"We have to be extremely careful not to take advantage of them. " Capron said
many parents do not understand that clinical trials are not treatment. They're
experiments. <P>The child is making a contribution to science, not necessarily
getting what's best for him or her. A child who's depressed, for example, might
be better off receiving Prozac off-label and going to "talk therapy" than
risking a placebo. Children enrolled in the Prozac studies are not allowed to
receive counseling, because then researchers could not tell what was working,
the drug or the therapy. <P>When Roberta Miller of Mission Viejo saw her
11-year-old son spiral back into depression during the second portion of a
Prozac trial in June, she believed he'd been switched to a placebo. She pulled
him from the study. <P>Still, she said the trial "saved our lives. I had to
physically drag him out of bed and put him in the car for school. At school he
wouldn't get out of the car. I took him home and called the (newspaper) ad," she
said. <P>The federal government will investigate how drug companies recruit both
adults and children and why people enroll. Oversight will become increasingly
important as trials for kids expand. <P>Dr. Dianne Murphy, the FDA's associate
director for pediatrics, said drug companies that test on children 400
high-priority drugs approved for adults can obtain a six-month extension on
their patents. Companies will also be required to test most new drugs on
children _ more difficult and expensive than clinical trials for adults. <P>"We
have to be very careful that children don't become commodities," she said. <P>
FORMS EXPLAIN TESTS IN SIMPLE LANGUAGE Children age 7 or older sign assent forms
before enrolling in clinical trials. The forms are designed to explain the
experiment in simple language. Here are excerpts from the University of
California, Irvine's assent form for a trial evaluating the depression drug
Remeron. <P> Purpose: Remeron helps adults who are sad and may help children,
too. <P> Study procedure: When I begin, doctors will ask me a lot of questions
about my feelings and my moods, like if I am feeling happy or sad. To make sure
I am in good health, a small sample of blood (approximately 2 tablespoons) will
be collected by putting a needle into a vein in my arm. The needle will hurt a
little when it goes into my arm. <P>The medicine might help me, but I might also
want to eat more, gain weight, feel tired or dizzy. Rarely, my white blood
cells, which help fight infection, may become very low. When this happened to
other people, the white blood cell levels returned to normal after the
medication was stopped. <P>I understand what I have to do in this study, and I
agree to take part in it.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART-LIST - FORMS EXPLAIN TESTS IN SIMPLE LANGUAGE (See end of text)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 Orange County Register


                              308 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                        March 9, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Ethisphere Names Principal One of World's Most Ethical Companies

LENGTH: 454  words


March 9 -- Ethisphere Institute, the global leader in defining and advancing the
standards of ethical business practices, named the Principal Financial Group as
a 2015 World's Most Ethical Company. Only 100 publicly traded companies in the
world earned this distinction in 2015.

The World's Most Ethical Companies designation recognizes those organizations
that have had a material impact on the way business is conducted by fostering a
culture of ethics and transparency at every level of the company.

"A sense of responsibility guides this company and our people, driving us to do
the right things for each of our stakeholders," said Dan Houston, president and
chief operating officer at The Principal. "It translates into: quality and value
for customers; diversity and inclusion in the workplace; full, fair, timely
disclosure for shareholders; and significant involvement in our communities.
This designation, and recognition of our commitment to the highest standards of
business, is a tremendous honor and particularly gratifying." The Principal was
one of only four companies in the life insurance sector honored this year.

"The World's Most Ethical Companies embrace the correlation between ethical
business practice and improved company performance. These companies use ethics
as a means to further define their industry leadership and understand that
creating an ethical culture and earning the World's Most Ethical Companies
recognition involves more than just an outward facing message or a handful of
senior executives saying the right thing," said Ethisphere's Chief Executive
Officer, Timothy Erblich. "Earning this recognition involves the collective
action of a global workforce from the top down. We congratulate everyone at The
Principal for this extraordinary achievement."

The World's Most Ethical Company assessment is based upon the Ethisphere
Institute's Ethics QuotientTM (EQ) framework developed over years of research to
provide a means to assess an organization's performance in an objective,
consistent and standardized way. The information collected provides a
comprehensive sampling of definitive criteria of core competencies. The EQ
framework and methodology is determined, vetted and refined by the expert advice
and insights gleaned from Ethisphere's network of thought leaders and from the
World's Most Ethical Company Methodology Advisory Panel.

Scores are generated in five key categories: ethics and compliance program
(35%), corporate citizenship and responsibility (20%), culture of ethics (20%),
governance (15%) and leadership, innovation and reputation (10%).

The full list of the 2015 World's Most Ethical Companies can be found on
Ethisphere's website.

Source: Principal Financial Group

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 8, 2005 Thursday

Healthy debate

BYLINE: TIMOTHY CAULFIELD, JOCELYN DOWNIE, MARTHA JACKMAN, Canada research chair
in health law and policy, University of Alberta, Canada research chair in health
law and policy, Dalhousie University, professor of law, University of Ottawa

SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: Edmonton, Halifax, Ottawa


Your editorial said that Quebec has no option but to allow private insurance.
This is simply not correct. Another, much better, option is to manage its wait
lists and reduce them to a reasonable level.

The Supreme Court of Canada was clear that if this were achieved, the law
prohibiting private health insurance would not be unconstitutional. An ethical
analysis takes us to the same result - if Quebeckers are dying waiting for
treatment, then surely we should seek a solution that will benefit all
Quebeckers and not only those who can afford and qualify for private health
insurance.

TIMOTHY CAULFIELD, Canada research chair in health law and policy, University of
Alberta, Edmonton

JOCELYN DOWNIE, Canada research chair in health law and policy, Dalhousie
University, Halifax

MARTHA JACKMAN, professor of law, University of Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     February 19, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U-M Health System: The Ethics of Access: U-M Doctors Compare Two Federal Health
Care Reform Efforts

LENGTH: 969  words


New Delhi, Feb. 19 -- Two major health reform laws, enacted 25 years apart, both
try to meet an ethical standard to provide broad access to basic health care.
Neither quite gets there -- but it's not too late for modern health care reform
to bring the nation closer to a goal of comprehensive and coordinated care for
all.



That's the conclusion of a commentary published in the new issue of the Journal
of the American Medical Association by a team of University of Michigan Health
System physicians.

The authors - a family physician, an emergency physician and a primary care
pediatrician/internist - take a hard look at the implications of the ethical
standard set in 1986 by a law that mandated universal access to emergency care.
They assess the ability of both that law, and the Affordable Care Act of 2010,
to meet the standard of providing access to basic health care to all who live in
the United States. They conclude that both laws fall short of that standard.

But, by learning from the quarter-century of the nation's experience with the
emergency care law - called EMTALA - they say the current Congress and
administration may still be able to implement and tweak the ACA so it comes
closer to the public's ethical expectations.

The crux of the issue, they write, is that the ACA doesn't ensure access to
preventive care for all, nor coordination among all types of health care. An
estimated 30 million people will still be without insurance even after all of
its provisions take effect.

"Health care in the U.S. is sometimes treated as a right and sometimes as a
privilege," says U-M health care policy researcher Katherine Diaz Vickery, M.D.,
a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Clinical Scholar who also sees patients at
U-M's Ypsilanti Health Center. "When we compare EMTALA and the ACA, we see that
while emergency care is treated as a right, primary care, it seems, is treated
as a privilege."

EMTALA focused on taking care of individuals in urgent or emergent situations,
and did not address how to make all people in the U.S. healthier, say the
authors. They cite the need for a balanced health care system that focuses on
both illness and wellness, and allows patients and providers the chance to work
together to prevent illness and save money.

Co-author and U-M emergency medicine physician Kori Sauser, M.D., notes that
while the ACAcomes closer to changing that perspective, it does not go far
enough.

"As the provisions of the ACA kick in, millions more people will have access to
primary care providers and preventive services like vaccinations and routine
screenings for high blood pressure and cancer," says Sauser, who is also a RWJF
Clinical Scholar. "Even so, demonstration projects haven't convinced us that
patients will choose primary care offices over the emergency department for
their acute care. A major missing piece in the ACA is in failing to determine
how to connect emergency care with primary care resources in ways that meet
patients' needs."

EMTALA, which requires hospitals and providers to evaluate, stabilize and
provide basic lifesaving treatment to any patient who comes to an emergency
department or is in active labor, was passed during President Ronald Reagan's
administration. It does not allow a patient's ability to pay to be considered
during emergency care.

Its ethical core, to ensure access to care in medical emergencies, includes an
acknowledgement of "community responsibility" and "historic standards" in health
care.

But in the years since, t has led patients who do not have insurance or the
ability to pay for care out of their pocket to rely on emergency rooms for care.
That in turn has burdened hospitals and led to spending that doesn't take
advantage of potentially cost-saving primary and preventive care.

The authors note that ACA does not expressly lay out the way to integrate the
emergency and primary care worlds in a way that ensures access to care -- what
the authors call a major oversight.

And, at the same time that the ACA is being implemented, payments to hospitals
to fund care for the uninsured are being decreased -- in spite of estimates that
30 million people will remain uninsured in 2020.

The authors conclude: "Ultimately, the ability of the US health care system to
satisfy the ethical obligation to ensure access to care -- first codified in
EMTALA -- will be a core measuring stick for the success of the ACA and for any
future reforms."

The article grew out of discussions that Vickery and Sauser had with Matthew
Davis, M.D., M.A.P.P., who is co-director of the RWJF Clinical Scholars program
at the University of Michigan and holds faculty positions in the U-M Medical
School and U-M Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.

Vickery, who had previous experience treating undocumented immigrants at a
Federally Qualified Health Center, notes that the issue of access to primary
care for that population, and for others who will not become insured under the
ACA, still needs to be addressed. She recalls instances where patients had to be
hospitalized for severe complications of diabetes that had never been diagnosed
or controlled, because their only health care access came through emergency
rooms.

On the flip side, Sauser notes that not having to consider someone's insurance
status in the ER feels like a "luxury" - but that every day she sees a need for
better ability to coordinate the care of a patient who has been seen for an
emergency.

Both say that the accountable care organization, or ACO, model of care
encouraged under the ACA may help patients within ACOs get access to more
coordinated care.

By looking back at lessons from EMTALA - which will continue to be the law of
the land even under the ACA - they hope to inform policy makers and health
leaders who are working to implement or introduce potential changes to the ACA.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News

                                 June 21, 2006

Merck makes life tough for Teva over Zocor.

BYLINE: Eitan Tapiro

LENGTH: 413 words


Jun. 21--A month ago, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Nasdaq: TEVA; TASE:
TEVA) obtained US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) marketing approval for a
generic version of Zocor, made by Merck & Co. (NYSE:MRK). Merck is not standing
idly by, and is taking measures to defend its blockbuster anti-cholesterol drug,
which has $4.6 billion in annual sales.

The price for Zocor is likely to drop following reports about negotiations
between Merck and various US healthcare organizations. The "Wall Street Journal"
reports, "A spokesman at UnitedHealth Group Inc., one of the nation's largest
health insurers, said it had negotiated reduced prices for Zocor with
Merck...this move will reduce the co-payment for Zocor made by patients at
pharmacies to $10 from $25. Moreover, the new generic version of the drug, made
by Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, will be in tier three, or the most expensive price
group. Generic drugs typically carry cheaper co-pays than branded drugs."

The "Wall Street Journal" quotes Merck as saying in response, "We don't talk
about our contracting strategies. We are going to continue to price Zocor
competitively."

In late May, Teva announced that it had obtained conditional FDA marketing
approval for Simvastatin tablets, a generic version of Zocor. Teva will be
allowed to market 5mg, 10mg, 20mg, 40mg, and 80mg tablets. Teva was the first
company to apply for marketing approval for low dosage Simvastatin tablets
(5-40mg), and obtained a 180-day exclusive marketing period for its version of
the drug.

Leader DS analyst Uri Hershkovitz said this was the first time that a drug
company had lowered the price of an ethical drug before generic versions entered
the market. He said that, until now, ethical drug companies kept the full price
until they lost half their market share.

Teva said in response to the report, "We will meet the original forecasts we
gave to the market. When we released the original sales forecast for the generic
version of Zocor, we took into account the competitive environment in which we
operate."

To see more of Globes or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.globes.co.il.

Copyright (c) 2006, Globes, Tel Aviv, Israel

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

TICKER SYMBOL(S): TEVA, MRK, DJ, UNH

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 5191883

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Fulltext

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Regional Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KNIRITRB

                        Copyright 2006 Gale Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                             Business and Industry
         Copyright 2006 provided by Knight-Ridder/Tribune Business News


                              312 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

Obama-Care and the Shut Down of American Government

LENGTH: 1794  words


The American democracy works in a combination of simple and complex ways. Thus
some broad explanation may be necessary. Also, given that on the surface, we
appear to run the same type of democracy the practitioners (politicians) of
Nigerian "democracy" and people may have something to learn from the American
democracy.


Two parties dominate the US party system-the Democratic and Republican parties.
Other parties can and do exist. Relatively speaking there is a separation of
powers between the executive and the legislature.
The legislature has two houses-Senate and Congress. Bills traditionally
originate from Congress, and then they go to the Senate for ratification before
landing on the President's table for its signing into law. Thus, theoretically
and practically any bill can "die" at any stage of this process before it
becomes law.
In the American democracy, the Congress must pass the annual budget. Without a
budget, the American government cannot run. That is the law! We know this in
America! So?
If the Congress refuses to initiate or pass a budget, then theoretically and
practically the countdown to shutdown of government will commence because the
American President dares not touch public money without a Congressional passed
and Senate ratified budget. This is America, and not anywhere else! And we know
this! In America, we put this in folk terms for our common understanding by
saying 'It is the Law'!
Now let us attend to the ObamaCare, President Barak Obama's initiated health
care policy-which primarily caused the 16 day shutdown of Government by
Congressional Republicans this year, 2013. President Obama signed the Affordable
Care Act into law in March 2010. As a social democrat, this act is Obama's moral
signature tune.
The US health care system is insurance based. That is, a patient needs a health
insurance before he/she can take care of his/her health. Your insurance card is
your passage to treatment in the hospital. Also, if I have insurance, it means I
am paying a monthly premium for that is the meaning of insurance. That monthly
premium is/can be shared between my employer and myself if I am employed. If I
am not employed and if I have health insurance then I am paying by myself.
America's population is about 316m. America is a capitalist society like
virtually all-western countries. There is a high social division and disparity
in wealth distribution. Also, unemployment rate has recently gone down to about
7.3%. In plain language, it means if I am unemployed and economically (not
spiritually) "poor" then it is likely that I have no health insurance.

Many Americans belong to this category a situation, which is not due to their
own fault, and neither is it due to "laziness"-something the rightwing is quick
to appeal to with respect to the unemployed. For example, if I am unemployed,
then that is not my fault for it is presumed that work is dignifying and
everyone wants to work for no one in his/her right sense prefer to be on
government welfare or dole.
But if someone does not work, then that person does not and will not have
resources to pay for any health insurance. That is the grim moral and economic
situation, which will not be of the making of an unemployed person.
About 48m Americans do not have health insurance. Without President Obama's
Affordable Care Act, this huge number will go without health care because they
do not have health insurance. These are facts we all know in America, though we
all differ in their interpretations and what to do about the facts.
The moral question therefore is: given that a cultivated and nurtured society
and human nature are all essentially social and moral what is the moral
obligation of the society to its "weakest" (economically, not spiritually)
members? Unlike Nigeria, despite the extreme capitalist nature of the American
economic system, the beauty and strength of the American society and her
democracy is that we ask this question formally, pointedly and informally with
no holds barred. And everyone in the American society struggle to answer this
moral question.
Answers to this question morally divide Americans down the line. Though there
are those who will disagree, it is obvious that this is the moral divide that
led to the shut down in 2013 of the American government for sixteen days by the
Republican Party, which was pushed to the extreme by its extreme rightwing
caucus, The Tea Party.
There are lessons we can learn both from the moral justification of the
ObamaCare-President Obama Health Policy-on one hand and the shut down of the
American government by the Republican party which controls the congress on the
other hand.
In-spite of the different interpretations given to ObamaCare its ethical meaning
is simple, lucid, and clear. And that ethical import is not a new one even when
the Republicans and their extreme right wing caucus-the Tea Party hope to
demonize it by suggesting that it is a "new" thing in the history of social
policies. It is not new.
It is a simple moral obligation that in view of the inherent sociality of and in
human nature that inevitably (in-spite of our differences) bonds all of us, and
which makes us all depend on one another, the economically able has the moral
obligation to help where it is obvious that the so-called economically unable
(the "poor" and "needy") cannot do it alone.

This eliminates begging which diminishes one. This moral view is justified on
the simple explanation that the economically able, the rich cannot exist without
the economically unable, the "poor" for the wealth of the rich comes from the
consuming power of the "poor" and "needy". So it is in the interest of the rich
that the "poor" should at the minimum exist.
Also, the import of the Obamacare is that the human-whether rich or poor- is not
simply a material entity; neither is the human person a machine. Rather the
human person is a soul, mind and body. In this regard, the human being has
natural rights, soul rights; mind rights which trump the physical, and which
trump his/her material poverty. And the social network in society, which creates
extreme wealth on one hand and extreme poverty on the other, provides for that
trump. It is a situation where the fates of the rich and the materially poor are
inevitably locked and interwoven.
However, for some reasons, the extreme right wing in the Republican party-the
Tea Party has consistently failed to learn from this simple economic and moral
history. Yet this is a party that claims to be of faith, of God and which
defends the interest of business!
As problematic as the position of the rightwing is on this issue, the Republican
Party defend their decision to use their Congressional majority to shut down the
government this way. The Republicans recognize that ObamaCare is part of the
nation's law. But the Republicans in the House of Representatives argue that
they have a right under the law to defund (i.e. not to fund) a law because
Congressional budget control of laws and policies is part of American democracy.
So Congressional Republicans and their party argue that while the government
(presently run by Democratic Party) has all the powers of implementation, to
prevent an abuse, the Congress has a budgetary control it can and ought to use
to prevent abuse by the government.
The defense of the Republicans in Congress appears solid and infallible on the
surface and truly this Congressional Republican defense is a legitimate appeal
to American law and democracy. But that appeal to the formality of law and
democracy is where the strength of the explanation of the Congressional
Republicans and the Republican Party ends. This is because law and democracy are
values. Democracy and law become meaningless and useless if we take an immoral
and a-moral merely formal relationship to law and democracy.

Let us illustrate this and show why the shut down of the American government by
the Congressional Republicans due to their opposition to ObamaCare raised and
will continue to raise serious moral questions. Suppose there is a law called
Atomic-Death Act. Such law will obviously be evil. But suppose the law says that
each American household should have nuclear, chemical, biological and atomic
weapons in their homes. We know that this law, Atomic-Death Act is nothing but
perdition for the human race.
So if hypothetically speaking a President asks for budgetary allocation to fund
Atomic-Death Act, Congress can and should legitimately refuse to fund. In other
words, Congress can and should defund such evil law.
The reason for this will include both the formality of law, which gives Congress
the power to use budgetary control to fund or defund a law and the obvious
immorality and evil in the hypothetical Atomic Death Act. So here we are
combining both the formality of the law and law as a value that has an ethical
face.
But what is really bothersome and perhaps boring and uninteresting about the
position of the Republican Party is that Congressional Republicans have appealed
only to the formal face of law in their opposition to the Affordable Care Act.
And that is sad and unfortunate.
If Congressional Republicans continue to appeal to formal law of budgetary
control to fund and defund a law as an aspect of American democracy in their
shut down of the government, then they -the Republicans and their extreme right
wing -the Tea Party are placing a health law for the poor and needy-the
ObamaCare- which we all have a moral obligation to fund and support given the
sociality in human nature -on the same level as our hypothetical evil law-Atomic
Death Act- which we do not have a moral obligation to fund given the same
sociality of human nature which makes us see ourselves in the faces of our
neighbors-the fabled "other" who we must not therefore allow to die due to the
evil Atomic Death Act.
This is why given the way the Republican Party has allowed its extreme rightwing
to push it away from the American people, it seems to me that the party is not
speaking the language of the neighbor next door. This is why the view that they
are out of tune and out of touch with the people is true.
The substance and language of the Republicans and all rightwing parties and
politicians have frozen. And this is why they are likely going to fail again if
they try next time to shut down the American government as a result of their
opposition to the Affordable Care Act.

The failure of the Republicans and the rightwing to listen to the people and
speak the substance of their language is a lesson Nigerian right wing parties
and politicians must learn even when in the Nigerian case their (Nigerian)
situation is complicated hopelessly by the weight of corruption and graft.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                       March 13, 2017 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Ethisphere Says Aflac is a World's Most Ethical Company for 11th Time

LENGTH: 367  words


March 13 -- Aflac, the leading provider of voluntary insurance at the worksite
in the United States, announced today that it has once again been included on
Ethisphere's listing of the World's Most Ethical Companies (WME). This is the
11th time that Aflac has appeared on this list, making Aflac the only insurance
company to appear on the list every year since it was created in 2007. Aflac is
among 124 companies being honored in 2017 and is the only company from the
Accident & Life Insurance category.

"We take enormous pride in being considered a World's Most Ethical Company,"
Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos said. "As a company that sells a promise, it is
essential that our customers can rely on Aflac to do the right thing when it
comes to providing the benefits they need. We are grateful to Ethisphere for
compiling this list and pleased that Aflac is the only insurance company to hold
a coveted spot for 11 straight years."

To create the list of World's Most Ethical Companies, the Ethisphere Institute
generates scores in five key categories and assigns a weight to each category.
The categories include:

* Ethics and compliance program (35 percent),

* Corporate citizenship and responsibility (20 percent),

* Culture of ethics (20 percent),

* Governance (15 percent), and

* Leadership, innovation and reputation (10 percent).

Using this data, Ethisphere creates their proprietary Ethics Quotient, which
provides a quantitative assessment of a company's performance in an objective,
consistent and standardized format.

"Over the last eleven years, we have seen the shift in societal expectations,
constant redefinition of laws and regulations, and the geopolitical climate. We
have also seen how companies like Aflac, which has been honored as a World's
Most Ethical Company every year since we created this distinction, respond to
these challenges. They invest in their local communities around the world,
embrace strategies of diversity and inclusion, and focus on long-termism as a
sustainable business advantage," explained Ethisphere's Chief Executive Officer,
Timothy Erblich. "Congratulations to everyone at Aflac for being recognized as a
World's Most Ethical Company once again."

Source: Aflac

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                            November 2, 2014 Sunday

Qatar meet set to tackle vital health issues

BYLINE: Rahul Das

LENGTH: 430 words


Doha: Oman's Health Minister Dr Ahmed Bin Mohammed Al Saidi will be invited for
the second World Innovation Summit for Health (WISH), scheduled to take place at
the Qatar National Convention Centre (QNCC) in Doha, in February 2015.



Speaking to the Times of Oman, Saad Al Muhannadi, President of Qatar Foundation,
said, "We will be delighted to have Oman's health minister at the second World
Innovation Summit for Health where we will be discussing a large number of
health related issues relevant to several GCC countries, including Oman."
More than 1,000 health experts and policy makers from close to 70 countries are
expected to participate in the conference.

"Last year, we had a very good presence from Oman including the Minister of
Health. We expect a similarly enthusiastic response this year also," he said.
Several forums have been established for WISH 2015. Some of these are
communicating complex health messages, delivering affordable cancer care,
dealing with dementia, diabetes, patient safety, mental health and well-being of
children and universal healthcare coverage.

Each will be chaired and led by a recognised expert in the area, and will lead a
working group of experts drawn from government, academia and industry. Prior to
the summit, each forum will publish a report, aimed at policy makers and
healthcare innovators.

The World Innovation Summit for Health, a global initiative of Qatar Foundation
for Education, Science and Community Development (QF), held an exclusive preview
of research and findings ahead of the 2015 Summit under the guidance of its
forum chairs today at Doha.

In addition to the new research forums, WISH announced a special panel on
"Healthcare and Ethics" in partnership with the Research Centre for Islamic
Legislation and Ethics (CILE), a centre of the Qatar Faculty of Islamic Studies
(QFIS) in Hamad Bin Khalifa University, falling within the Education City at
Doha.
The panel, which will be a part of the 2015 Summit, will focus on the
development and implementation of "Genomic Medicine" and the innovation and
ethical challenges behind this revolutionary new medicine.

Although Genomic Medicine raises complex ethical and religious issues, the
potential it holds for future healthcare is immense. This is why "Genomic
Medicine" is currently one of Qatar's national priorities and Her Highness
Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, Chairperson of Qatar Foundation and Founder of WISH,
announced the 'Qatar Genome Project' at the inaugural Summit in 2013.


To contact:rahuldas@timesofoman.com
 Muscat Press and Publishing House SAOC 2014

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2014 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               TODAY (Singapore)

                          December 14, 2016 Wednesday
                                  APM Edition

Doctors barred from paying percentage of fees to 3rd-party agents

BYLINE: Neo Chai Chin

SECTION: HNP; Singapore; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 641 words


SINGAPORE - In a move set to shake up the administration of medical claims here,
the medical watchdog yesterday barred doctors from paying fees to third-party
administrators (TPAs) that are calculated as a percentage of fees these doctors
charge their patients.

TPAs help process medical claims for employers, insurers and doctors. The
Singapore Medical Council (SMC) said fees doctors pay to TPAs "must reflect the
fair work done" by them in handling and processing patients' claims, and must
also be transparent to the patient. As the amount of TPAs' work does not vary
based on the fees that doctors charge their patients, paying percentage fees to
the TPAs may be construed as a form of "fee-splitting" and could inadvertently
promote cost escalation, said SMC president Tan Ser Kiat in an advisory to
doctors yesterday.

Fee-splitting is deemed unethical in the medical profession, as it could be akin
to paying a sales commission to the TPA. Some major TPAs here charge percentage
fees and have done so for years, but what had doctors crying foul in recent
months was a few players charging fees of up to 25 per cent of doctors'
professional fees - in some cases, for merely the "referral" of patients on a
particular insurance scheme or panel.

The SMC said the payment of percentage fees will be a breach of the new ethical
code and ethical guidelines that take effect from Jan 1. But to give doctors
time to modify or end existing agreements with TPAs that are in breach of the
rules, the provision barring the payment of prohibited fees comes into force
only on July 1 next year.

Yesterday's clarification came after the SMC in September released the new
ethical code and guidelines that said fees charged by TPAs "must not be based
primarily on the services (doctors) provide or the fees (doctors) collect".
Doctors must also not pay fees that are so high as to constitute "fee splitting"
or "fee sharing", or which impact their ability to provide the required level of
care.

Two TPAs told TODAY they would review their fee models in light of SMC's latest
advisory. MHC Asia Group's chief executive Low Lee Yong said MHC hopes to meet
the SMC for a dialogue on the matter "since it affects the livelihood of over
1,200 doctors in our panel". He defended the model of charging percentage fees,
saying a flat fee could ironically end up "punishing" doctors for keeping their
fees low. "A flat fee of S$5 is 25 per cent to the doctor who keeps the
healthcare cost low at S$20. But it is only 5 per cent for the doctor who
charges S$100," he said.

Ms Veronica Allen, chief executive officer of Parkway Shenton, said it is
studying the SMC's latest advisory and working out a fair fee structure that
reflects the value it provides and that benefits all doctors. Parkway Shenton,
it was reported last month, charges a flat 10 per cent fee, but had decided in
the wake of SMC's new guidelines (before yesterday's advisory) to offer a
variation of fixed and variable fees to be launched by the end of this year.

Ms Allen said yesterday: "While some TPAs have significantly raised their fees,
we've kept the TPA administrative fees charged to our panel doctors unchanged
for more than the past six years. We agree that administrative fees charged
should primarily reflect the work of the TPA and not be so high as to constitute
fee splitting with the doctor."

Meanwhile, doctors welcomed the SMC's clarification on the issue. The Singapore
Medical Association, which represents the majority of doctors here, said it is
happy the SMC has addressed concerns on whether doctors' contracts with TPAs
meet the requirements of the new guidelines. SMA has consistently advocated that
doctors should work only with TPAs that are prepared to be transparent with
their fee structure, said Dr Chong Yeh Woei, past president and council member
of the SMA. NEO CHAI CHIN

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 MediaCorp Press Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            October 28, 1985 Monday

TOUGH TALKING FOR DOCTORS

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: CHARLTON P

LENGTH: 465 words


Corrected Tough talking for doctors T HE evidence being given to the Public
Accounts Committee about the behavior of some members of the medical profession
would be outlandish if presented as the basis for a television thriller.
Certainly, threats of murder sit ill with the public perception of doctors as
healers of the sick. Then again, that perception is clearly changing. Now, the
Federal Health Minister, Dr Blewett, has issued a blunt warning to the
Australian Medical Association: Either it cleans up the profession or the
Government will step in. As always, it is a mere handful that are giving the
rest of the profession a bad name. Unless this handful is identified and weeded
out, however, the profession's reputation may be permanently damaged. The
Government cannot escape some of the blame. The greatest abuses have occurred
with the introduction of its cherished bulk billing, a system which relieves the
patient of any pain of payment. Doctors accept less of the scheduled fee in
return for efficiencies in office and accounting time. At least, that was the
idea. Unscrupulous doctors, particularly some pathologists and radiologists,
have managed to use that system to increase the number of services they provide,
and for which they charge. The cost, of course, is carried by the taxpayer.
Quite clearly, the Government should have been prepared for these abuses. We
have had universal health insurance, with bulk billing, in one form or another
for more than a decade. It may well have been a mistake to leave much of the
disciplining to the profession itself. The evidence given to the committee has
revealed that many of the pathology abuses are being committed by people who are
not pathologists and in some cases, not even medical practitioners. In other
cases, there have been cosy relationshis between doctors to their mutual
benefit, but at the expense of the taxpayer. Laws, not ethics The Government
should legislate to stiffen what is only an ethical requirement. It should be an
offence for one doctor to derive any financial benefit by referring a patient to
another doctor. At the moment, it is far too easy for doctors to avoid the
ethical barriers and set up a nice little profit-sharing arrangement from
referrals. For its part, the specialist colleges of pathologists and
radiologists should use their powers to license laboratories and practitioners.
Once that licence is obtained, it should be regularly reviewed. The medical
profession is notoriously sensitive to lay criticism; it regards the possession
of medical qualifications as a minimum prerequisite to constructive criticism of
actions by its members. That kind of elitist attitude does not square with the
fact that the vast majority of its income is provided from public sources.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              317 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                        March 7, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Principal Financial Group Again Named One of World's Most Ethical Companies

LENGTH: 397  words


March 7 -- Ethisphere Institute, the global leader in defining and advancing the
standards of ethical business practices, named Principal Financial Group as a
2016 World's Most Ethical Company.

This year marks the 10th anniversary of Ethisphere and the World's Most Ethical
Companies designation, which recognizes those companies who align principle with
action, work tirelessly to make trust part of their corporate DNA, and in doing
so, shape future industry standards by introducing tomorrow's best practices
today.

"Just over 100 publicly traded companies received Ethisphere's World's Most
Ethical Companies designation in 2016," said Dan Houston, president and chief
executive officer at The Principal. "This recognition is a true honor, and a
testament to our people, and the work they do every day to earn and maintain
customer trust."

"Companies rely on Ethisphere to continually raise and measure the standards of
corporate behavior. Those that demonstrate leadership in areas like citizenship,
integrity and transparency create more value for their investors, communities,
customers and employees, thus solidifying a sustainable business advantage,"
explained Ethisphere's Chief Executive Officer, Timothy Erblich.
"Congratulations to everyone at The Principal for being recognized as a World's
Most Ethical Company."

Methodology & Scoring

The World's Most Ethical Company assessment is based upon the Ethisphere
Institute's Ethics Quotient (EQ) framework developed over years of research and
vetted and refined by the expert advice from Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical
Company Methodology Advisory Panel. The EQ offers a quantitative way to assess a
company's performance in an objective, consistent and standardized way. The
information collected provides a comprehensive sampling of definitive criteria
of core competencies, rather than all aspects of corporate governance, risk,
sustainability, compliance and ethics.

Scores are generated in five key categories: ethics and compliance program
(35%), corporate citizenship and responsibility (20%), culture of ethics (20%),
governance (15%) and leadership, innovation and reputation (10%) and provided to
all companies who participate in the process.

Honorees

The full list of the 2016 World's Most Ethical Companies can be found at
http://worldsmostethicalcompanies.ethisphere.com/honorees/.

Source: Principal Financial Group

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

Medical trial delays put thousands at risk, say experts

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 637 words


continued from page 1

all. The process is necessarily thorough to protect patients and hospitals from
litigation. Trials can go spectacularly wrong, as happened in 2006 when six
young men were nearly killed by an experimental drug in a trial at Northwick
Park hospital in north London.

The 2002 Sars pandemic killed 774 people and infected more than 8,000. Had the
virus not been contained it could have killed far more. The reason the death
toll was not higher was that patients were most infectious when they were most
sick, so isolating the ill stopped the virus spreading. "There is no doubt we
were very lucky with Sars," said Farrar. "But nobody knows where it has gone and
we don't have a vaccine. If it were to come back tomorrow and I got infected,
the doctor treating me wouldn't have a clue which drug, if any, to give me."

Without hard evidence, the government's preparedness rests on educated guesses.
The Department of Health spent £424m stockpiling Tamiflu (oseltamivir) for a flu
pandemic. But the lack of trials in sick patients means doctors disagree on how
well the drug works.

A 2011 report from the Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS) raised major concerns
about delays to clinical trials. The report quoted Cancer Research UK data that
found the typical time taken to launch a trial and treat the first patient was a
staggering 621 days. The bulk of that time was spent obtaining NHS approval. The
time has come down since, to around 18 months, but has not improved much in the
past year or so.

Sir Michael Rawlins, president of the Royal Society of Medicine, who chaired the
report, said progress was disappointing. "It's going in the right direction, but
it's painfully slow," he said.

The Health Research Authority was set up in response to the AMS report and
charged with streamlining approval times. It has already cut delays that held up
ethical approval. One change was to hold weekly meetings of ethical committees
to consider and approve trials submitted in the days beforehand, and a system
for convening ethical committees virtually when a trial is urgent. One trial to
look at the effect of a vaccine in pandemic influenza received ethical approval
in two days.

But the major delays are not with ethical approval, but sign-off from the NHS
centres that host trials. It is here that the HRA proposals aim to make their
greatest impact. Instead of individual NHS hospitals duplicating each other's
work by independently reviewing, querying and finally approving a trial, the HRA
will act as a central authority, giving a single sign-off for all participating
hospitals.

Relieved of that workload, hospitals can focus on the practicalities, such as
obtaining trial drugs and making sure patients are enrolled. If the health
department agrees to the plans, a simple trial could be approved within 25 days.

"We will give researchers a lot more confidence that the NHS can respond if the
HRA is doing the greater part of the approving," said Janet Wisely, chief
executive of the HRA.

She said that ultimately, they should be able to approve emergency trials within
24 hours. "If you are intending to treat someone in a 24-hour timeframe then
research should match that. It's a challenge, but it's what we should aim for,"
she said.

Farrar wants more trials pre-approved so that doctors can start emergency tests
in patients the moment an outbreak is identified. "We need generic protocols
which have been pre-approved by ethics committees and institutions at a national
level. All the information, from what samples to take to the forms we'd record
patient data on, would be openly available. Then, in an emergency, a group that
has worked on the top three or four interventions can start enrolling patients
within 24 hours," he said. "There are groups trying to address this, but it's
nowhere near there yet."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                     October 8, 1992 Thursday Final Edition

Insurers look to genetic testing

SOURCE: FROM CANADIAN PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1/ FRONT

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


In the near future, Canadians seeking life insurance may first be required to be
tested for genes that could lead to cancer or a host of other diseases.

While some in the insurance industry say such genetic testing could mean lower
premiums for many Canadians, serious ethical questions have arisen about an
individual's right to privacy.

Life insurance companies currently use family and individual medical histories,
as well as HIV and blood tests, to determine an applicant's risk, says Ted
Snider, president of the Life Underwriters Association of Toronto.

"If everyone was allowed to buy life insurance -- no matter what their health --
the cost of life insurance would be astronomical," said Mr. Snider. "If we can
use genetic testing to get more thorough results, it could lead to lower costs."

For some people, genetic testing could expose potential health problems -- such
as a predisposition to various types of cancer -- that could mean sky high
premiums or no insurance at all.

But the insurance industry is aware of the ethical pitfalls of genetic testing,
"and this is one reason why our industry, our association, has chosen to talk
about this," he said.

Scientists are in a race to identify and determine the function of each of the
50,000 to 100,000 genes every person has.

Even limited genetic testing could be available by the end of the decade or
sooner.

Charles Black of the Canadian Life and Health Insurance Association, which
represents insurance companies, believes genetic testing won't be used by
insurers "without a lot of serious consideration."

Danger

"This whole area has an impact for many aspects of society," Mr. Black said. "I
don't think insurance will be a leader in this field."

Dr. Fred Lowy, director of the Centre for Bioethics at the University of
Toronto, believes genetic testing is "inevitable but unfortunate, because it is
a major invasion of privacy."

The danger is that genetic information -- which may only predict a slightly
higher risk of a certain disease -- could be misinterpreted as an absolute
certainty by insurance companies, he said.

"Insurance companies say it is just a more refined way of estimating risk," Dr.
Lowy said.

"However, genetic information, once it becomes available, is likely to be so
extensive and so detailed that it will mean insurance companies could exclude
from coverage a whole host of people who are only at moderate risk."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              320 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                 June 15, 2007

NHS research plea

BYLINE: Nathan Emmerich

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. 15 No. 1798

LENGTH: 169  words


As someone who has recently gained permission to conduct his MRes dissertation
research in two departments of a local hospital, I agree with the recent
articles highlighting the obstacles researchers face when planning to do
research in and around the National Health Service. It is also worth noting that
such governance procedures may not only discourage the social scientific
researcher from conducting such research but may not promote ethical research.

While the US concluded years ago that ethical considerations in social
scientific research ought to be governed by the same model as medical research,
Denmark concluded the opposite. If the NHS is to review its procedures for the
governance of research, it may be worth those in the social scientific community
working together to promote the view that the ethics of such research ought to
be considered as qualitatively different from that of biomedical research and be
governed by specifically designed procedures.

Nathan Emmerich

Queen's University Belfast

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 TSL Education Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 30, 2001

Jobs & Money: Money: Fund turns darker shade of green

BYLINE: Patrick Collinson

SECTION: Guardian Jobs and Money Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 284 words


One of Britain's biggest and oldest ethical funds this week turned "dark green",
applying some of the strictest environmental screening the industry has yet
seen.

The Aegon Ethical fund (formerly the Scottish Equitable Ethical fund) has moved
from being "vegetarian" to "vegan". Any producers or retailers of meat, fish and
dairy products will be automatically excluded from the fund - which even extends
to chocolate manufacturers such as Nestle, which makes KitKats, and Cadbury
Schweppes.

Charles Henderson, the head of Aegon's socially responsible investment unit,
says the change reflects a wider move since the fund was launched in 1989.
"After talking to our investors, we concluded it was time for some
re-evaluation. The changes we are making provide a neat snapshot of shifts in
consumer attitudes over the past 12 years.

"For example, gene patent ing is a relatively new phenomenon. Animal and human
cloning, plus controversy surrounding developments such as Dolly the Sheep and
GM foods, has put this issue firmly on the agenda. The other significant change
is the exclusion of producers and retailers of all dairy products as concern
over modern dairy farming methods has steadily intensified."

Aegon will also screen out any company involved in "adult entertainment ser
vices", which means that BSkyB, Atlantic Telecom and Telewest will all be
excluded.

The tough screening means the fund can only choose from 35% of the stocks quoted
in the FTSE 100.

Despite the smaller pool of investments, the fund has performed relatively well
recently. Most UK ethical funds have lost around 10% in value over the past six
months, but Aegon Ethical is down just 6%.


LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              322 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2017 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved
                              GlobalData - Events

                                 June 28, 2017

                                 Suzuken Co Ltd

                             8 Higashi Kataha-machi
                                Nagoya 461-8701
                                     Japan

* * * * * * * * * * EVENTS * * * * * * * * * *


Consolidated Financial Statements for the First Quarter of the Fiscal Year
Ending March 31, 2016

   Aug 03, 2015

   Suzuken Co., Ltd announced it`s consolidated Financial Statements for the
first quarter of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016.Qualitative Information
on Quarterly Consolidated Financial StatementsExplanation of Results of
Operations In the first quarter of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016, the
Japanese economy continued to recover gradually, in part due to the government's
economic policies. Personal consumption also began showing signs of picking up
with this recovery, in step with an improving trend in employment. The ethical
pharmaceuticals market grew in monetary terms, driven by an increase in
prescription of medicines treating lifestyle-related diseases and oncological
drugs for an aging Japanese society, and the launch of new drugs. Another driver
was the absence of a fallback in demand in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015
from an increase in Japan's consumption tax on April 1, 2014. This was offset in
part by the national health insurance (NHI) promoting the use of generic drugs.
Against this backdrop, the operating environment surrounding drug wholesalers
has remained challenging, mainly because of the need to respond to greater
diversification and sophistication in customer needs. As a result, consolidated
results for the first quarter under review were as follows: Net sales were
Â¥509,355 million (up 10.4% year on year), operating income was Â¥863 million
(compared with an operating loss of Â¥1,056 million in the previous year's first
quarter), ordinary income was Â¥5,284 million (up 59.8% year on year), and net
income attributable to owners of the parent was Â¥3,109 million (up 63.0% year
on year). (Pharmaceutical Distribution) In response to the urgent proposals
contained in the "Roundtable Meeting on Improvements in the Distribution of
Ethical Drugs," the ethical pharmaceutical wholesale industry has continued to
work as one to improve distribution. Specifically, the Suzuken Group has been
promoting product transactions based on individual pricing, in principle, while
tenaciously striving to negotiate prices that are commensurate with the value of
each individual ethical pharmaceutical product. To address greater
diversification and sophistication in customer needs and become the No. 1 Group
for customer trust, we have been optimizing the services we provide to our
customers and establishing solid distribution functions. The segment's net sales
increased 10.6% year on year as a result of our ongoing activities for
responding to individual customer needs, as well as in the absence of a fallback
in demand in the previous fiscal year from an increase in the consumption tax.
However, the segment recorded an operating loss, despite the increase in sales
and rigorous efforts to secure appropriate profit margins. As a result of the
above, net sales amounted to Â¥485,729 million (up 10.6% year on year) and
segment operating loss was Â¥893 million (compared with an operating loss of
Â¥2,176 million in the previous year's first quarter). Reasonably estimated
prices have been applied to products delivered to customers for whom sales
prices have yet to be determined at this time. Suzuken Group will continue
efforts to rigorously secure appropriate profit margins in the face of the tough
price negotiations expected ahead. (Pharmaceutical Manufacturing) The segment's
net sales increased mainly due to our sales promotion efforts focused on
diabetes mellitus-related products, as well as in the absence of a fallback in
demand in the previous fiscal year from an increase in the consumption tax.
Operating income was pushed higher As a result of the above, net sales amounted
to Â¥16,521 million (up 19.6% year on year) and segment operating income was
Â¥1,061 million (up 40.7% year on year) by the increase in sales. (Insurance
Pharmacy) Net sales of Suzuken's pharmacy operations grew through M&As and the
opening of new stores. Segment operating income was pushed higher by the
increase in sales, despite the greater SG&A expenses incurred in the M&As and
new store openings. Consequently, net sales amounted to Â¥24,322 million (up
13.5% year on year) and segment operating income was Â¥667 million (up 128.2%
year on year). (Healthcare-related Services) The segment's net sales increased
mainly due to the contract distribution of pharmaceuticals for orphan diseases
by S.D. Collabo Co., Ltd., which plans and manages contract distribution on
behalf of pharmaceutical manufacturers and coordinates pharmaceutical
distribution centered on the orphan disease domain. Moreover, in our nursing
care business, there was a steady increase in the number of service recipients
centered on the new facilities we opened. Meanwhile, cost of sales increased due
to the new facilities we opened and the nursing care professionals we hired. As
a result, net sales amounted to Â¥9,100 million (up 17.5% year on year) and
segment operation loss was Â¥37 million (compared with an operating loss of
Â¥224 million in the previous year's first quarter). Explanation on the
Financial Position Consolidated assets, liabilities and net assets at the end of
the first quarter under review were as follows. (Assets) Total assets at June
30, 2015 had decreased Â¥864 million from March 31, 2015 to Â¥1,085,820 million.
The main causes of this decrease were as follows. Current assets had increased
Â¥521 million from March 31, 2015. This was mainly due to increases of Â¥5,315
million in trade notes and accounts receivable, and Â¥6,004 million in
marketable securities. These increases were partly offset by a Â¥9,246 million
decrease in cash and cash equivalents. Property and equipment had decreased
Â¥1,386 million from March 31, 2015. This was mainly due to decreases of Â¥736
million in intangible fixed assets, and Â¥1,193 million in investments and other
assets. These decreases were partly offset by a Â¥544 million increase in
tangible fixed assets. (Liabilities) Total liabilities at June 30, 2015 had
decreased Â¥2,412 million from March 31, 2015 to Â¥716,474 million. This was
mainly due to decreases of Â¥5,224 million in income taxes payable, Â¥3,896
million in accrued bonuses, and Â¥2,288 million in other current liabilities.
These decreases were partly offset by a Â¥9,091 million increase in trade notes
and accounts payable. (Net assets) Total net assets at June 30, 2015 had
increased Â¥1,547 million from March 31, 2015 to Â¥369,346 million. This mainly
reflected the recording of Â¥3,109 million in net income attributable to owners
the parent and a Â¥617 million increase in net unrealized gain on
available-for-sale securities, which was partly offset by the payment of Â¥2,433
million in dividends. Explanation Related to Consolidated Earnings Forecasts and
Other Forecast Information There have been no changes to the full-year
consolidated earnings forecasts for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016, which
were announced on May 11, 2015.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY1.48 Trillion For Nine Months Ended December 31,
2014

   Feb 04, 2015

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. reported total revenue of JPY1.48 trillion for the first
nine months of fiscal 2014, compared with the revenue of JPY1.49 trillion in the
year-ago period. It also reported a net income of JPY14.7 billion, or JPY163.59
per share, for the first nine months of fiscal year 2014, compared with the net
income of JPY14.9 billion, or JPY165.26 per share, in the year-ago period.1.
Qualitative Information on Quarterly Consolidated Financial Statements(1)
Explanation of Results of Operations In the first three quarters of the fiscal
year ending March 31, 2015, the Japanese economy remained in a gradual recovery,
in part due to the impact of the government's economic policies. However, growth
in personal consumption slowed due to a fallback from a surge in demand ahead of
Japan's consumption tax rate increase and the effects of inclement summer
weather. Medicines for treating lifestyle-related diseases and oncology diseases
that are on the rise as Japanese society ages and the launch of new drugs have
contributed to the expansion of the Japanese market for ethical pharmaceuticals
to some extent. However, the market saw negative growth, as this was more than
offset by the fallback in demand from Japan's consumption tax rate increase, the
effects of a revision in national health insurance drug prices, and efforts to
promote the use of generics. Moreover, the operating environment surrounding
drug wholesalers remains challenging mainly because of the need to respond to
greater diversification and sophistication in customer needs. As a result,
consolidated results for the first three quarters of the fiscal year ending
March 31, 2015 were as follows: Net sales were Â¥1,476,054 million (down 0.7%
year on year), operating income was Â¥10,620 million (up 1.6% year on year),
ordinary income was Â¥23,510 million (down 0.7% year on year), and net income
was Â¥14,746 million (down 1.0% year on year). Performance by segment was as
follows. (Pharmaceutical Distribution) In response to the urgent proposals
contained in the "Roundtable Meeting on Improvements in the Distribution of
Ethical Drugs," the Company has continued to work on improving distribution.
Specifically, the Suzuken Group has been tenaciously striving to negotiate
prices that are commensurate with the value of each individual ethical
pharmaceutical product. To address greater diversification and sophistication in
customer needs and become the No. 1 Group for customer trust, we have been
optimizing the services we provide to our customers and establishing solid
distribution functions. Our net sales declined at a rate of 0.8% year on year,
primarily as a consequence of the fallback in demand from Japan's consumption
tax rate increase, the effects of a revision in national health insurance drug
prices, and efforts to promote the use of generics, even though we kept up our
activities for responding to the individual needs of customers. On the earnings
front, an operating loss was incurred despite our ongoing efforts to strengthen
initiatives for securing appropriate profits. As a result of the above, net
sales finished at Â¥1,406,044 million (down 0.8% year on year) and operating
income finished at Â¥4,950 million (down 13.1% year on year). Reasonably
estimated prices have been applied to products delivered to customers for whom
sales prices have yet to be determined at this time. (Pharmaceutical
Manufacturing) Net sales decreased year on year mainly due to the fallback in
demand from Japan's consumption tax rate increase, and the effects of a revision
in national health insurance drug prices, despite an effort to promote sales
mainly of diabetes mellitus-related products. Operating income increased from
the same period of the previous fiscal year as a result of efforts to curtail
SG&A expenses. Consequently, net sales finished at Â¥48,054 million (down 3.9%
year on year) and operating income finished at Â¥3,897 million (up 55.9% year on
year). (Insurance Pharmacy)Net sales of Suzuken's pharmacy operations grew
through M&As and the opening of new stores. Operating income of this business
declined due to an increase in personnel expenses for securing personnel, among
other factors. As a result, net sales finished at Â¥65,686 million (up 3.3% year
on year) and operating income finished at Â¥1,939 million (up 5.2% year on
year). (Healthcare)In our nursing care business, there was a steady increase in
the number of service recipients centered on the new facilities we opened.
Meanwhile, cost of sales increased as we also strengthened initiatives to
bolster and further expand our community-based nursing care services by opening
new facilities and hiring more nursing care professionals. Net sales increased
due to factors including the contract distribution of pharmaceuticals for orphan
diseases by S.D. Collabo Co., Ltd., which plans and manages contract
distribution on behalf of pharmaceutical manufacturers and coordinates
pharmaceutical distribution centered on the orphan disease domain. Meanwhile,
cost of sales increased as a consequence of contracting new large-scale
distribution projects. As a result, net sales finished at Â¥24,635 million (up
17.7% year on year) and there was an operating loss of Â¥401 million (compared
to operating income of Â¥125 million in the same period of the previous fiscal
year).


Suzuken Reports Net Sales Of JPY2 Trillion In Fiscal 2014

   May 09, 2014

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. reported net sales of JPY2 trillion in fiscal 2014 compared
to JPY1.9 trillion in fiscal 2013. Net income was JPY21.4 billion in fiscal 2014
compared to a net loss of JPY14.4 billion in fiscal 2013.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY1.9 Trillion In Fiscal 2013

   May 09, 2013

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. reported total revenue of JPY1.9 trillion for the fiscal
2013, compared with the revenue of JPY1.9 trillion in the previous fiscal year.
It also reported a net income of JPY14.4 billion, or JPY159.19 per share, for
the fiscal year 2013, compared with the net income of JPY8.1 billion, or
JPY89.30 per share, in the previous fiscal year.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY1.4 Trillion For Nine Months Ended December 31,
2012

   Feb 04, 2013

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. reported total revenue of JPY1.4 trillion for the first
nine months of fiscal 2013, compared with the revenue of JPY1.4 trillion in the
year-ago period. It also reported a net income of JPY6.8 billion, or JPY74.91
per share, for the first nine months of fiscal year 2013, compared with the net
income of JPY8.2 billion, or JPY90.83 per share, in the year-ago period.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY919.6 Billion In H1 Fiscal 2013

   Nov 06, 2012

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. (Suzuken), a pharmaceutical and healthcare company,
reported total revenue of JPY919.6 billion for the six months ended September
30, 2012 compared to JPY905.9 billion for the six months ended September 30,
2011. Net income was JPY1 billion, or JPY11.29 per share, for the six months
ended September 30, 2012, compared to JPY3.3 billion, or JPY36.38 per share, for
the six months ended September 30, 2011.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY462 Billion In Q1 Fiscal 2013

   Aug 03, 2012

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. (Suzuken), a pharmaceutical and healthcare company,
reported total revenue of JPY462 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2013
compared to JPY445.6 billion in the same period of fiscal 2012. Net income was
JPY1.6 billion, or JPY18.16 per share, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013,
compared to JPY1.3 billion, or JPY44.42 per share, in the same period of fiscal
2012.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY1.9 Trillion In Fiscal 2012

   May 09, 2012

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. (Suzuken), a pharmaceutical and healthcare company,
reported total revenue of JPY1.9 trillion in fiscal 2012 compared to JPY1.8
trillion in fiscal 2011. Net income was JPY8.1 billion, or JPY89.30 per share,
in fiscal 2012, compared to JPY9.6 billion, or JPY106.79 per share, in fiscal
2011.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY1.4 Trillion For Nine Months Ended December 31,
2012

   Feb 03, 2012

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. (Suzuken), a pharmaceutical and healthcare company,
reported total revenue of JPY1.4 trillion for the nine months ended December 31,
2011 compared to JPY1.3 trillion for the nine months ended December 31, 2010.
Net income was JPY8.2 billion, or JPY90.83 per share, for the nine months ended
December 31, 2011, compared to JPY9.1 billion, or JPY100.87 per share, for the
nine months ended December 31, 2010.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY905.9 Billion In H1 Fiscal 2012

   Nov 04, 2011

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. (Suzuken), a pharmaceutical and healthcare company,
reported total revenue of JPY905.9 billion for the six months ended September
30, 2011 compared to JPY851.8 billion for the six months ended September 30,
2010. Net income was JPY3.3 billion, or JPY36.38 per share, for the six months
ended September 30, 2011, compared to JPY5.1 billion, or JPY56.93 per share, for
the six months ended September 30, 2010.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY445.6 Billion In Q1 Fiscal 2012

   Aug 05, 2011

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. (Suzuken), a pharmaceutical and healthcare company,
reported total revenue of JPY445.6 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2012
compared to JPY427.7 billion in the same period of fiscal 2011. Net income was
JPY1.3 billion, or JPY14.42 per share, in the first quarter of fiscal 2012,
compared to JPY4 billion, or JPY44.41 per share, in the same period of fiscal
2011.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY1.75 Trillion In Fiscal 2011

   May 09, 2011

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. (Suzuken), a pharmaceutical and healthcare company,
reported total revenue of JPY1.75 trillion in fiscal 2011 compared to JPY1.74
trillion in fiscal 2010. Net income was JPY9.6 billion, or JPY106.79 per share,
in fiscal 2011, compared to JPY14 billion, or JPY154.96 per share, in fiscal
2010.


Suzuken Reports Revenue Of JPY1.31 Trillion For Nine Months Ended December 31,
2011

   Feb 04, 2011

   Suzuken Co., Ltd. (Suzuken), a pharmaceutical and healthcare company,
reported total revenue of JPY1.31 trillion for the nine months ended December
31, 2010 compared to JPY1.32 trillion for the nine months ended December 31,
2009. Net income was JPY9.1 billion, or JPY100.87 per share, for the nine months
ended December 31, 2010, compared to JPY12.4 billion, or JPY138.03 per share,
for the nine months ended December 31, 2009.
* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *
Company Overview                        Events
Financial Ratios                        History
Key Employees                           Key Facts
Locations and Subsidiaries              Major Products and Services
Top Competitors

 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *

   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its
information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and
expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company
websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of
this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted
in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts
of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot
be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations
that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith
from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a
position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for
actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be
incorrect.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017


                              323 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday
                           TownsvilleFeatureA Edition

Listen up for sound advice

BYLINE: GEOFFREY KNIGHT

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 445  words


DO you find yourself turning the volume on the TV up louder than it used to be?
Are you asking people to repeat themselves over and over? Then perhaps it's time
to get your ears tested.

But if you're in need of a hearing aid, it pays to shop around. According to
Grant Collins, owner and principal audiologist of Clarity Hearing Solutions,
unless you're eligible for free hearing aids through the Government's OHS scheme
or NDIS, hearing aids can be quite an investment.

"Hearing aids are priced anywhere between $200 to over $10,000, so it pays to do
your homework," Mr Collins said, adding that private health insurance may cover
part of the costs or offer some no-gap options as well.

"The first thing to do is get tested and diagnosed properly. Some hearing aid
clinics act more like shops and offer free hearing screenings to get you in the
door. These screenings are normally like the ones you can do for free online or
via a mobile phone app anyway," Mr Collins said.

"To get properly diagnosed, and therefore properly fitted, you will need a
comprehensive hearing assessment, which can take up to an hour and costs around
$150." Mr Collins said this was a small price to pay for the right diagnosis and
the right recommendations.

"You should then be offered options at different price levels and brands that
specifically address your hearing loss, including evidence and explanations for
why those recommendations are being made," he said.

If you feel there's too much pressure to buy, Mr Collins said it was best to
walk away and shop around before making your decision.

"Lastly, take the time to get used to your new hearing aid and make sure you get
the aid adjusted to suit you." To find out more about Clarity Hearing Solutions,
visit clarityhearingsolutions.com .au

Five ethical principles for better hearing 1. Accurate diagnosis: we only employ
the best University Masters qualified and registered audiologists.

2. Evidence-based recommendations and treatment: we only prescribe treatment,
hearing aids and features where there's medical evidence it will actually help
you.

3. Ethical and transparent pricing: our margins are the same across our entire
range so there is no incentive to prescribe technology other than what is best
for you. We earn our income from our clinical time, not selling hearing aids, so
our hearing aid pricing is among the cheapest available at close to wholesale
prices.

4. No sales commissions: we don't reward our team for selling hearing aids. We
reward them for making you happy.5. Independent since 2008: being independent we
can provide hearing aids or implants from all manufacturers to ensure you get
the one right for your needs.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily News (South Africa)

                            August 01, 2013 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Ethics in robots under spotlight;
In the case of neglect, a robot will be treated as a domestic animal and in the
case of a defect, will be treated as machine

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 831 words


In the demilitarised zone dividing North and South Korea, SGR-1 robots are on
patrol, equipped with cameras and radar to detect intruders as well as speakers
to warn them off. If that fails, they also carry machine guns and grenade
launchers.

In the US, the Home Exploring Robotic Butler can retrieve a book from a shelf, a
meal from a microwave oven or a drink from the kitchen. It can even separate an
Oreo biscuit.

In Japan, a seal-like robot called Paro provides companionship for seniors - and
seems to ease the effects of dementia.

Over the next few decades, robots will become part of everyday life. But as they
grow more sophisticated and autonomous, they'll confront situations of cultural
and moral ambiguity that won't be easily resolved - situations that people, over
the millennia, have learnt to navigate but that resist codification that
machines can easily understand. This means robots, from the battlefield to the
nursing home, will require more advanced ethical decision-making abilities. And
humans will need to think through what should happen when they cause harm.

Three challenges in particular need to be explored.

The first and most immediate is in warfare. About 40 countries are at work on
weapons and military equipment that have some degree of autonomy - from drones
to the Legged Squad Support System - as are plenty of private companies. The
appeal seems obvious. Unmanned weapons don't need health insurance or food or
hazard pay. They never lash out in anger, disobey an order or suffer from
post-traumatic stress. And, at least in theory, they could save the lives of
many human soldiers.

At the same time, fully autonomous weapons - those that are capable of making
their own decisions about whether to attack or kill, without a human "in the
loop" - make us deeply uneasy. Only 26 percent of respondents to a survey by the
University of Massachusetts Amherst favoured their use. Human Rights Watch has
asserted that they violate international humanitarian law and should be banned.

Yet bans on specific weapons systems - such as military aircraft or submarines -
have almost never been effective in the past. Instead, legal prohibitions and
ethical norms have arisen that effectively limit their use. So a more promising
approach might be to adapt existing international law to govern autonomous
technology - for instance, by requiring that such weapons, like all others,
can't be used indiscriminately or cause unnecessary suffering. It may turn out
that robotic weapons are actually better at meeting those requirements than
humans are.

Outside warfare, robots will confront situations with no obvious moral
resolution. Suppose one is assigned to make sure your grandmother takes her
pills. Then one day she refuses. A host of quandaries - from medical ethics to
privacy rights to cultural mores - arise that would be hard enough for a person
to resolve.

Situations like this will demand that engineers co-operate closely with
ethicists in designing software, and they will require much more sophisticated
rules than the "Three Laws of Robotics" made famous by Isaac Asimov. Ronald
Arkin, of the Georgia Institute of Technology, has done pioneering work on
creating "ethical governors" for robots. But we're a long way from a
satisfactory simulation of morality. Technology companies would be wise to boost
their investment in such research for the sake of both profits and liability.

Which leads to our third concern. When a robot with some degree of autonomy
unexpectedly harms someone or something, who's liable? The manufacturer? The
software designer? The owner? To some extent, the existing tort system can be
adapted to help sort things out. One insightful study suggests a hybrid
liability system in which robots would be treated as domesticated animals in
cases where their owners or victims acted negligently, and as commercial
products in cases where the machines were defective.

As robots grow more sophisticated, and people more reliant on them, another
model to consider is the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Programme. The
government could establish a fund, paid for by a tax on autonomous machines, to
compensate accident victims, thus ensuring that manufacturers won't fear rare
but very costly lawsuits - and won't be discouraged from inventing new robots -
provided they follow best practices in designing and marketing them.

In warfare as in ordinary life, when robots cause harm, it will be critical that
the lines of accountability are clear. Scenarios in which intelligent machines
grow self-aware enough to enslave humanity - evoked so vividly in movies such as
The Terminator - aren't plausible. Yet they express an important human
intuition: there is a danger in ceding too much control to technology.

This intuition can help guide us into the new robotic era. But we shouldn't let
it unduly impede a promising new field. With the right rules in place, the rise
of the machines should be nothing to fear. - Washington Post-Bloomberg

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ND


                Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 June 29, 2009

AMA meeting: AMA exhorts doctors to offer charity care, help the uninsured

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jun. 29, 2009

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: Chicago



HIGHLIGHT: Physicians also should become involved in the political process and
help cut financial obstacles to care, says new ethics policy.


  As the debate on how to reform the health system and cover the country's
approximately 47 million uninsured patients heats up on Capitol Hill, the
American Medical Association House of Delegates adopted policy saying physicians
have an ethical obligation to care for patients, regardless of their ability to
pay.

So long as it is fiscally sustainable for physicians, the policy says, doctors
should accept uninsured patients and maintain relationships with patients who
lose health coverage. Doctors should help patients access public programs and
charitable sources. They should take part in the political process to cut
financial obstacles to health care access, delegates said.

Regina M. Benjamin, MD, outgoing chair of the AMA Council on Ethical and
Judicial Affairs, said the Association's ethical stance on access to care
dovetails with its lobbying efforts to cover the uninsured.

"This policy fits right into this entire debate at the base of what we do as
physicians, which is to put the patients' needs first," said Dr. Benjamin, an
Alabama family physician who last October was awarded a $500,000 MacArthur
Foundation "genius grant." She founded a clinic in 1990 caring for patients in
the medically underserved, remote area in and around Bayou La Betre, Ala.

"Right now, if a patient doesn't have access, they can't get our care," Dr.
Benjamin said. "We need to use whatever resources we have, be it our voices or
our advocacy -- and health reform is just part of that."

Charity care getting squeezed out?

The new policy comes when declining physician income appears to be affecting the
amount of charity care doctors provide. A March 2008 Milbank Quarterly report
found doctors' pay fell 7% from 1996 to 2005, when adjusted for inflation. In
the same period, the proportion of doctors offering charity care dropped 10% to
about two-thirds of physicians. A 2005 Health Affairs study found that among
those who are insured, 61% skip care due to out-of-pocket costs.

Some delegates argued that the CEJA report's injunction that physicians provide
charity care "when possible" would make medical practice fiscally unsustainable.

"What does 'when possible' mean?" asked Joy A. Maxey, MD, a pediatrician in the
Georgia delegation. "In Georgia, you could be Andrew Carnegie and you can't run
a practice based on all Medicaid patients."

Ob-gyn Stanley F. Brunn, MD, a member of the New York delegation, said in
reference committee discussion that the proposal "overstepped the bounds" and
amounted to "mandates that are unfunded."

CEJA member H.R. Greene, MD, said the report was not intended to put physician
practices at fiscal risk.

"It's an overwhelmingly obvious good that physicians maintain their financial
integrity," said Dr. Greene, an Elida, Ohio, medical oncologist. "We are not
saying that the responsibility of ensuring health care access is solely that of
physicians.

"What we are exhorting physicians to do is to do the best you can as individuals
to help with this problem and advocate with other stakeholders to resolve this
issue. We are not telling physicians to go broke."

The print version of this content appeared in the July 6, 2009 issue of American
Medical News.

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: Breaches of electronic medical records security can compromise privacy
and harm patients physically and emotionally. When such breaches occur, what
responsibilities do physicians have toward their patients?  Proposed action: An
ethical policy recommending that physicians promptly inform patients of any
breach and the potential for harm, describe how the breach happened and what
steps patients can take to minimize any adverse results. [Adopted]

Issue: Physician assistants and nurse practitioners are increasingly taking on
ownership roles in practices such as retail health clinics. This gives rise to
the ethically problematic situation where a doctor is hired to supervise the
work of a midlevel practitioner who also owns the practice and is the
physician's employer.  Proposed action: An ethical policy that acknowledges the
conflicts inherent in such an arrangement. The opinion says physicians have a
duty to always exercise their independent professional judgment in patients'
best interest, even if it puts them at odds with their employers. [Adopted]

Issue: Some hospital patients with racial or other prejudices are hostile to the
physicians assigned to care for them or refuse their treatment, but hospitals do
not have uniform guidelines to address these situations.  Proposed action:
Direct the AMA to work with other organizations to encourage hospitals and
health systems to adopt policies allowing patients to change doctors and have
mechanisms to address abusive patient behavior and ensure continuity of care for
a patient who declines care from the attending physician. [Adopted]

Issue: So-called chimeric embryos -- created when human genetic material is
introduced into a nonhuman embryo or transferred into an enucleated nonhuman
egg, creating a hybrid -- are being explored as an alternative to stem cell
research techniques that destroy human embryos.   Proposed action: The Council
on Ethical and Judicial Affairs said there is a lack of policy or scientific and
ethical consensus on chimeras, and the issue affects few physicians. The council
proposed examining the issue as part of its review of opinions relating to
medical genetics in the AMA Code of Medical Ethics. [Adopted]

Issue: Working with patients to plan in advance for end-of-life care situations
is a legally complicated and ethically fraught area for doctors.  Proposed
action: Direct the AMA to develop an educational session on advance care
planning at an upcoming Annual or Interim Meeting and ask CEJA to update its
ethical guidance on end-of-life issues. [Adopted]

Retrieve Attachment

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Doctors debate cash for organs scheme;
It opens door to possibility of an 'ethical' market in Britain that lets donors
sell organs for transplants

                           December 4, 2003 Thursday


LONDON - British doctors are debating a radical change in medical law to allow
the National Health Service (NHS) to buy organs from live donors in Britain and
Europe, a report said.

The British Medical Association (BMA), the powerful organisation representing
doctors throughout Britain, is taking the first tentative step towards
abandoning its long-held ethical objection to establishing a marketplace for
organs by staging a confrontation between a leading proponent and one of its
staunchest critics.

The Guardian said that Dr John Harris, professor of bioethics at Manchester
University, would argue in a closed BMA session for healthy donors to be given
the right to sell a kidney, part of a liver or bone marrow for transplanting to
a sick patient.

With the backing of some of Britain's leading transplant surgeons, he was
expected to say yesterday that thousands of lives could be saved by establishing
'an ethical market' in live organs.

Under British law, the only organs used are those donated free of charge,
usually by a relative, or taken from a cadaver.

But Prof Harris' argument, the paper said, is that live donors running the risks
of surgery to provide the organ or tissue should receive payment tax free and
without consequent loss of state benefits.

They and their families should also have high priority for a subsequent
transplant should the need arise.

Though he will not suggest how much live donors should be paid, The Guardian
said the amounts were likely to be substantial.

The BMA said a Turkish company was reported to have charged [#163]22,000
(S$65,000) in 1997 for flying patients with kidney failure to India or Russia
and transplanting a donated organ.

Prof Harris' stand is that the NHS should be the monopoly buyer of donated
organs, taking on the responsibility for giving the organs to patients in the
greatest need and maintaining the highest standards of transplant surgery, The
Guardian said.

In an article in the British Medical Journal co-written with Mr Charles Erin,
senior lecturer in applied philosophy at Manchester University, he said: 'This
would prevent the rich using their purchasing power to exploit the market at the
expense of the poor.'

People would not be able to use wealth to jump the transplant queue, he said.

And rich countries should not be able to buy organs from people in poor
countries who would not be eligible for receiving a transplant.

While Prof Harris would not get majority approval from the BMA ethics committee,
he claimed there was a growing number of people 'who are coming round to this
way of thinking'.

His opponent in the BMA debate is Dr Alastair Campbell, professor emeritus of
ethics and medicine at Bristol University.

His argument, The Guardian said, is that 'our body is not a piece of
property...so it is right that the law regards the body as not a marketable
commodity to be traded away at will'.

'Far from improving the lot of the poor, it worsens their situation, including
their health prospects.'

The BMA said more than 6,000 people were on the waiting list for an organ at the
end of last year.

Last year, 401 people died before an organ became available.

SECTION: World

LENGTH: 531 words

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                              327 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday

Letter: Doesn't seem fair

BYLINE: Gatehouse Media, Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 90 words


Here is an ethical question: Is it fair that workers who earn minimum wages,
have no health insurance themselves and have no retirement plan contribute, via
their federal taxes,  for the salary of $174,000 a year for our current U.S.
senators and representatives; the health insurance for all retired and current
U.S. senators and  representatives and their families; and contribute 93 percent
of tax money toward the retirement plan these elected officials receive at age
62 (current rate is almost $140,000/year)?

- Erin Smith, Springfield

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 21, 1987, Tuesday, Final Edition

Kennedy's Key Legislation

BYLINE: Sally Squires

SECTION: HEALTH; PAGE Z15; COVER STORY

LENGTH: 177 words


During his quarter century in the Senate, Edward M. Kennedy has introduced or
sponsored numerous bills on health, ranging from the law that implemented the
Meals on Wheels program for the elderly to a bill to help the victims of
radiation exposure. Some highlights: 1970: Family Practice of Medicine Act.
Pocket vetoed by Nixon in 1970. Kennedy took Nixon to court and won in 1974. Act
became law. 1973: Rehabilitation Act.First civil rights bill for disabled
persons, entitling the handicapped to improved access to buildings and public
transportation. 1978: Legislation establishing the Presidential Commission for
the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral
Research, providing protections to human research subjects. Signed by Carter.
1979: National Health Insurance legislation. Would have provided universal,
federally financed health insurance. Bill died in committee.  1987: Mandated
Employer Health Insurance. Currently under consideration, this would require
employers to provide insurance to full-time workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: BIOGRAPHY, PROFILE

                       Copyright 1987 The Washington Post


                              329 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne)

                            August 16, 2014 Saturday

Let's show mercy to our neighbors

BYLINE: opinion

SECTION: OPINION; Local Column; Pg. 8-16 NEWS Religion Column::1

LENGTH: 594 words


Who is my neighbor?

The recent humanitarian crisis of thousands of migrant children arriving in our
country has gotten me thinking about Jesus' parable of the Good Samaritan (Luke
10:25-37). You will remember this was Jesus' response to a young lawyer's
question: "Who is my neighbor?"

In this story, Jesus points out several things worth remembering. One being that
the "religious" people (the priest and the Levite) didn't stop to help.

Now, there may have been a variety of reasons for this. Perhaps they didn't want
to touch the man in the ditch because it would have made them ritually unclean;
or perhaps they were in a hurry to get to something they perceived as more
important; or perhaps they were afraid that the robbers were still in the area
and they might also fall victim; or they may just not have been willing to deal
with the trouble and expense that taking care of this man would have entailed.

The point is, they made a conscious decision not to stop and help.

In contrast, Jesus talks about the Samaritan, someone the Jews of that day would
have seen as a "mixed breed." This person was willing to stop and do the right
thing. He was the one that "was a neighbor" and "showed mercy." He made a
different choice.

Through this story, Jesus speaks to us today and points out that when we are
faced with difficult ethical and moral decisions, such as the migrant children,
most of us have the tendency to engage in self-protecting avoidance. It is all
too easy to look the other way and say that is someone else's job or
responsibility to deal with it.

And we can come up with all sorts of justification for why we should ignore the
needs of vulnerable people, especially those from groups other than the ones we
belong to, because all too often we see them as somehow unworthy or undeserving.
But the point is that people of faith must not look the other way because Jesus
calls us all to be good Samaritans.

Our state, country and world are facing significant challenges related to human
suffering. In Wyoming, we need to address issues such as the "poorest of the
poor" still not having any options to obtain affordable health insurance, and we
must do what it takes to reduce our extremely high suicide rates. On a national
level, we need to come up with sensible, compassionate immigration reform and
find a workable solution to senseless gun violence.

And on the global level, we need to work with our international partners to deal
with such challenges as pandemic diseases, wars and refugees, and the slavery of
human trafficking. These and other issues of human suffering require us to work
together to find possible solutions.

So what are people of faith to do? When faced with the serious moral and ethical
dilemmas of our day, we have two choices. The first choice is to engage in
"business as usual," dig in our heels and justify our positions. Another choice
is to ask, "Where is the common ground?" and "How might we work together?"

The first option doesn't seem to be solving anything. I'd like to challenge
people of faith to commit to trying the second option.

Let's admit that all God's children are our neighbors. Let's be merciful and
work together to reduce human suffering and promote the common good. Let's
strive to be good Samaritans and "Go and do likewise" as Jesus commands us.

The Rev. Carol Peterson

is pastor at St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Cheyenne. Local clergy who would
like to write a column for consideration and use on the Religion page should
contact reporter James Chilton at 633-3182 or by email at
jchilton@wyomingnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Cheyenne Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            April 17, 1996 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

LOOSE CHANGE

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 404 words


LOOKING for this year's hot investment sector? A survey of 17 fund managers by
KPMG has shown that the professionals think Pacific Basin shares will produce
the highest real returns in 1996, followed by European shares.

While they expect international shares to outperform the local market over the
short term, they expect this to reverse over the long term. The pros were cool
on Japanese bonds as well as local property and listed property trusts.

Interestingly, the fund managers expected the highest returns to come from those
markets which had performed best in 1995, according to KPMG.

Does this mean the professionals are making the same mistake they always accuse
individual investors of making (that is, using past performance to predict the
future), or do they know something we don't?$$$$$

THE management company behind the $230 million Howard Mortgage Trust has set up
a new subsidiary, Howard Pacific Ltd, to access funds for mortgages from the
securitisation market.

Howard says this will enable it to offer more flexibility in tailoring loans to
meet customer requirements.

TREVOR Lee, Australian Ethical Investment director, has launched a book, Ethical
Investment in Australasia: a handbook for the concerned investor.

It profiles 28 ethical investment organisations and is the result of research by
seven contributors. The book has been published as a community service and will
be sold by environment centres and Wilderness Shops, as well as being available
on the Internet at http://www.eepo.com.au/perma/ethical.

SUN Alliance has changed its term life and trauma insurance policies to allow
policyholders to nominate up to 10 beneficiaries to receive their payout on
death.

Another enhancement is a special events increase option which allows you to
automatically increase your cover - without the need for additional medical
evidence - in the event of things like marriage, childbirth or adoption,
increasing or taking out a mortgage, and an increase in the value of the insured
person's business.

PAUL Clitheroe, the money commentator and IPAC director, will be offering free
advice on how to eliminate tax on retirement income next week. IPAC is holding
two free seminars for executives who are nearing retirement - next Wednesday at
12.30 pm and 5 pm.

In addition to tax structures, the seminars will cover self-managed super,
maximising returns, and estate planning. To reserve a seat, phone IPAC on 373
7000.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1996 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                            June 21, 2006 Wednesday

Merck makes life tough for Teva over Zocor;
Merck is cutting the price of the anti-cholesterol blockbuster. Teva: Our
generic version will meet our forecasts.

BYLINE: Eitan Tapiro

LENGTH: 363 words


A month ago, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Nasdaq: TEVA; TASE: TEVA)
obtained US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) marketing approval for a generic
version of Zocor, made by Merck & Co. (NYSE:MRK). Merck is not standing idly by,
and is taking measures to defend its blockbuster anti-cholesterol drug, which
has $4.6 billion in annual sales.

The price for Zocor is likely to drop following reports about negotiations
between Merck and various US healthcare organizations. The "Wall Street Journal"
reports, "A spokesman at UnitedHealth Group Inc., one of the nation's largest
health insurers, said it had negotiated reduced prices for Zocor with Merck this
move will reduce the co-payment for Zocor made by patients at pharmacies to $10
from $25. Moreover, the new generic version of the drug, made by Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA, will be in tier three, or the most expensive price group.
Generic drugs typically carry cheaper co-pays than branded drugs."

The "Wall Street Journal" quotes Merck as saying in response, "We don't talk
about our contracting strategies. We are going to continue to price Zocor
competitively."

In late May, Teva announced that it had obtained conditional FDA marketing
approval for Simvastatin tablets, a generic version of Zocor. Teva will be
allowed to market 5mg, 10mg, 20mg, 40mg, and 80mg tablets. Teva was the first
company to apply for marketing approval for low dosage Simvastatin tablets
(5-40mg), and obtained a 180-day exclusive marketing period for its version of
the drug.

Leader DS analyst Uri Hershkovitz said this was the first time that a drug
company had lowered the price of an ethical drug before generic versions entered
the market. He said that, until now, ethical drug companies kept the full price
until they lost half their market share.

Teva said in response to the report, "We will meet the original forecasts we
gave to the market. When we released the original sales forecast for the generic
version of Zocor, we took into account the competitive environment in which we
operate."

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes.co.il - on June
21, 2006

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2006

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday

Reply: Letters and Emails: Clash of rights over medical research and privacy

BYLINE: Professor Richard Bentall

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 263 words


* Debate about the methods by which investigators can obtain NHS patients'
consent for research is to be welcomed. Protecting the interests of patients is
paramount, but the current system is too bureaucratic. Ethical approval has
quite rightly to be obtained from the NHS Research Ethics Service (NRES), which
also considers the scientific value of the research. However, approval has then
to be obtained from participating trusts' research governance committees, which
consider the impact on clinical services. Sometimes committee members with no
research qualifications reject ethically approved research on spurious
scientific grounds. Occasionally they make ethical objections to procedures
already approved by NRES.

If patients are to be recruited from many trusts, many kilos of paperwork will
be required. It is not unusual for the entire approval process to take the best
part of a year. Doctoral students in the clinical and medical sciences are now
experiencing difficulty obtaining approval in time to complete their studies. In
some universities supervisors are now discouraging them from carrying out
research with patients. As these students are the medical researchers of
tomorrow, the long-term consequences could be disastrous. Clinical innovation
will be stifled and new treatments will be delayed. Future NHS patients may die
for want of treatments that would have been developed earlier. It is in all our
interests that efficient methods are found for recruiting consenting patients to
studies.

Professor Richard Bentall

School of psychology, University of Bangor

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 World Market Intelligence Private Limited,
                              All Rights Reserved


                                 WMI - History

                  * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *
            World Market Intelligence company reports are based on a
             core set of research techniques which ensure the best
            possible level of quality and accuracy of data. The key
             sources used include: Company Websites Company Annual
            Reports SEC Filings Press Releases Proprietary Databases
          Notes Financial information of the company is taken from the
           most recently published annual reports or SEC filings The
           financial and operational data reported for the company is
           as per the industry defined standards Revenue converted to
          US$ at average annual conversion rate as of fiscal year end.

                                January 27, 2017

                        Thrivent Financial for Lutherans

                            625 Fourth Avenue South
                             Minneapolis 55415-1624
                                 United States


HISTORY
YEAR EVENT TYPE          DESCRIPTION
2015 Acquisitions/Merger Thrivent initiated an agreement with Newman Long Term
     s/Takeovers         Care, a long term care insurance provider in the US,
                         to acquire its all its businesses.
2015 Others              The company was affirmed with A++ rating by A.M. Best.
2015 Corporate Awards    Thrivent was awarded with the 2015 World's Most
                         Ethical Company by the Ethisphere Institute, a
                         US-based firm that is engaged into measuring and
                         defining corporate ethical standards.
2015 Corporate Awards    Thrivent was awarded with Lipper Fund Award under the
                         Best Mixed-Assets Small Fund Family in the 2015 US
                         Lipper Fund Award.
2014 Corporate Awards    Thrivent was named as 2014 World's Most Ethical
                         Company by the Ethisphere Institute, a US-based firm
                         that defines and measures corporate ethical standards.
2014 Corporate Awards    Thrivent was ranked among the Top 100 Workplaces in
                         Minnesota consecutively for five years in an employee
                         survey conducted by the Star Tribune.
2013 Corporate Awards    Thrivent Financial was ranked 97th among 872 America's
                         Top Workplaces with more than 1,000 employees by
                         WorkplaceDynamics.
2013 Corporate Awards    Thrivent was ranked by the Ethisphere Institute, as
                         one among the Most Ethical Companies in the World in
                         2013.
2013 Corporate Awards    Thrivent was ranked 20th among the 2013 Top 100
                         Workplaces in Minnesota consecutively for fourth year
                         in an employee-based survey conducted by Star Tribune.
2013 Corporate Awards    Thrivent was recognized among the Ward's 50 Top
                         Performing Insurance Companies consecutively for ninth
                         year.
2013 Corporate Awards    Thrivent was awarded with the Gold Well Workplace
                         Award by Wellness Council of America.
2013 New                 The company's asset management business, Thrivent
     Products/Services   Asset Management (TAM) launched the Income Plus Funds
                         product solution.
2012 New                 Thrivent introduced Thrivent Long-Term Care Insurance
     Products/Services   product including international care, special
                         equipment, hospice care, home care services, and
                         alternate care.
2012 New                 Thrivent launched hybrid life insurance product, The
     Products/Services   Whole Life Plus Term Protection, Whole Life Plus.
2009 New                 The company's subsidiary, Thrivent Financial Bank
     Products/Services   initiated an agreement with Digital Insight, to
                         provide a financial management solution, FinanceWorks.
2009 Corporate Awards    Thrivent was awarded with 2009 Excellence in Financial
                         Literacy Education Award by the Institute for
                         Financial Literacy.
2008 New                 Thrivent introduced Thrivent Retirement Income
     Products/Services   Optimizer service.
2007 New                 Thrivent's subsidiary, Thrivent Investment Management
     Products/Services   introduced an asset management program, The Thrivent
                         SELECT Managed Portfolios.
2004 Corporate           The company merged its two funds: the LB Family of
     Changes/Expansions  Funds and the AAL Mutual Funds to create a
                         consolidated fund, Thrivent Mutual Funds.
2003 New                 Thrivent's subsidiary, Thrivent Investment Management
     Products/Services   introduced mutual wrap program.
2001 Corporate           The AAL Bank and Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of
     Changes/Expansions  Thrivent was established.
2001 Incorporation/Estab Thrivent Financial for Lutherans (Thrivent) was
     lishment            established through a merge agreement between Lutheran
                         Brotherhood and Aid Association for Lutherans.


* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *










LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2017


                              334 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             March 28, 2005 Monday

Big banks, insurers appeal to money manager of Canadian ethical fund

BYLINE: MONICA GUTSCHI, Dow Jones Newswires

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: MONEY & MARKETS; INVESTING; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Canada's biggest banks and insurers are the largest holdings in the Ethical
Canadian Index Fund run by Wusooq Khaleeli.

The portfolio manager cites two reasons: their heavy weighting in the S&P/TSX
composite index, and their track record as among the best corporate citizens.

The fund, launched in late 2004 by Vancouver-based Ethical Funds Co., has
returned 9.7 per cent since inception, according to Globefund.com. Mr. Khaleeli
invests only in companies that meet certain "socially responsible" criteria.

The fund uses the same relative weightings of chosen stocks as in the S&P/TSX
composite. That means Royal Bank of Canada represents about 5.5 per cent of its
portfolio, Manulife Financial Corp. 5.4 per cent, and Bank of Nova Scotia 4.7
per cent. Toronto-Dominion Bank represents 3.8 per cent and Bank of Montreal 3.2
per cent. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and Sun Life Financial Inc. are
each 2.8 per cent.

But even though the oil and gas sector is significantly underrepresented in the
ethical index, compared with the S&P/TSX composite, industry giants EnCana Corp.
and Suncor Energy Inc. play big roles in both, at 4.5 per cent and 2.6 per cent,
respectively.

Of the 230 companies in the S&P/TSX composite, only about 20 per cent, or about
45, have been given a failing grade and aren't part of the ethical index, Mr.
Khaleeli says.

Some have been bypassed because of the industry they're in - tobacco company
Rothmans Inc. being a prime example - while others are missing because either
their environmental, corporate governance, human rights or social practices are
faulty.

Only slightly more - about 25 per cent - are given an excellent or very good
score, while the vast majority "fall in the middle of the barbell," Mr. Khaleeli
says.

Those are companies that are doing a reasonable job of meeting ethical funds
criteria, "but we think they could do better," he says. The criteria are
different for each industry, which means that mining companies aren't judged by
the same standards as software developers. That said, aside from the stellar
performers, almost every Canadian company could do just a little better, Mr.
Khaleeli says.

In order to push the company to improve its practices, Ethical Funds will invest
in it. "If you're not invested in them, they have no incentive to listen to
you," Mr. Khaleeli says. In one case, a steel company that divulged its
environmental practices in the United States but not in Canada was convinced to
provide the missing information.

"Part of it is just an awareness campaign," he adds. "Basically it's just about
talking to companies, highlighting an issue. The awareness alone is a very
powerful tool."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Ethical groups link with new healthcare plan;
IN ASSOCIATION WITH Rensburg Sheppards

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 244 words


MERSEYSIDE based healthcare cash plan provider Medicash has joined forces with
the Cooperative, the UK's largest mutual retailer, in a deal that will allow
shoppers to sign up to a healthcare cash plan in food and pharmacy stores across
the country.

Co-op customers signing up in store or online can choose from a range of cash
plan options from pounds 6.50 per month.

Medicash's move into retail and the association between the two companies comes
at a time when more and more people in the UK are struggling to afford basic
healthcare costs such as dental and optical checkups.

Sue Weir, chief executive of Medicash said: "The cost of healthcare in the UK is
rising and, in the current economic climate, cash plans represent an affordable
way for people to spread the cost of health treatment and gain peace of mind.

"Currently only 8% of the UK population have a cash plan so this new partnership
with the Co-operative gives us the opportunity to communicate the benefits of
Medicash products to a broader audience throughout the UK."

The partnership brings together two brands with strong ethical values.

Medicash is a not for profit organisation that makes significant charitable
donations to the NHS and other health related charities.

"Ethical trading is at the heart of the Co-Operative group's business
principles.

Patrick Allen, director of marketing for the Co-op, said: "Our association with
Medicash is the result of a rigorous tender process."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Patrick Allen of the Co-op with Sue Weir of Medicash

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                      July 24, 2004 Saturday Final Edition

The downside of diagnostic imaging: More medical scanning means extra tests,
costs and ethical dilemmas

SOURCE: Knight Ridder Newspapers

BYLINE: Marie McCullough

SECTION: Ideas; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 1171 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

PHILADELPHIA - When Lisa Shields felt short of breath last December, she worried
that she had developed a blood clot in her lungs, a problem that runs in her
family.

Two CT scans and an ultrasound test found no dangerous clots anywhere in her
body. But her thymus -- a little gland behind the breastbone that makes white
blood cells and shrinks by adolescence -- looked a bit large, a possible sign of
a nerve-muscle disorder.

Since then, the 32-year-old from Philadelphia has had additional CTs, a brain
MRI, a PET scan, and other high-tech tests. Although doctors have ruled out
neuromuscular diseases, they still don't know whether she has a thymus tumour
that should be removed, or a blood cancer called lymphoma that should be treated
with chemotherapy. Or just a harmless bit of leftover thymus gland.

"So (in) one month ... I'm having my chest cracked open," Shields said
matter-of-factly. "At this point, I just have this gut feeling that it needs to
come out."

Thanks to an explosion in diagnostic imaging over the last two decades,
physicians looking for one thing are accidentally finding lots of others.
They're also supplementing standard X-rays with the angles, cross-sections and
three-dimensional views of the latest scans.

The problem is, determining whether suspicious spots are harmless or threatening
is still a challenge. Even detailed pictures can be ambiguous, and each imaging
method poses its own set of interpretive pitfalls.

The results are more and more diagnostic scans, more exploratory surgeries, more
ethical dilemmas, and greater expense.

No one can say whether more disease and deaths are being prevented, but clearly,
most abnormalities turn out to be trivial, not terrible.

"There are many blemishes on our skin," said Marvin Lipman, a professor at New
York University Medical College who has written about the perils of the imaging
explosion. "We never knew how many blemishes we have on our internal organs
until we started looking. In this litigious age, every time you find one of
these things, you need to follow up."

Liability concerns are combining with innovations, advertising aimed at
patients, and an aging population to make radiology an all-important field. Just
since 2000, U.S. spending on diagnostic imaging has climbed from $75 billion to
almost $100 billion, estimates Booz Allen Hamilton, a technology-consulting
firm. MRI alone accounted for 22 million scans in 2002, up 22 per cent in a
year. Judging from one national health plan, about a quarter of insured
Americans have one or more scans annually.

The problem of running across an abnormality while checking for something else
-- what doctors call "incidental findings" -- is as old as the art of healing.
But machines that peer deep inside the body are revealing more than physicians'
hands, stethoscopes or blood tests ever could.

One revelation is that the abnormal may be the norm. Studies of incidental
findings show:

- MRIs of the brain used in researching sensory and mental activity revealed
brain abnormalities, mostly of blood vessels or nerves, in almost half of 151
healthy adult volunteers in a Stanford University study.

- MRI scans suggest a quarter of young adults have knee abnormalities, and half
have lumbar disc bulges, despite the absence of pain. One in every 10 people may
have pituitary tumours.

- Ultrasound indicates up to 67 per cent of people have thyroid nodules.

- Ultrafast CT scans of the colon -- the new non-invasive "virtual colonoscopy"
-- often turn up lymph-node abnormalities, aortic aneurysms, gallstones, liver
and kidney masses, and hiatal hernias. A Swedish study found 130 such
abnormalities in 111 virtual colonoscopy patients. A British study found 171
abnormalities in 103 colonoscopy patients.

Yet diagnostic imaging can be a godsend. Barbara Ayes of Cherry Hill, N.J., had
a mammogram that did not reveal her lobular breast cancer, which often stays
hidden on X-rays. If her physician had not ordered an MRI, her cancer might not
have been caught early.

"I know insurance companies are going to hate me, but I think MRIs are important
for high-risk women like me," said Ayes, 56, who has a family history of breast
cancer.

Still, the diagnostic imaging explosion is increasing the likelihood of
overdiagnosis and overtreatment, experts agree. Ironically, these very problems
are why experts decry walk-in "health scan centres" that do whole-body CTs for a
fee.

Another effect: New digital information systems that help radiologists manage
the avalanche of images increase incidental findings. These picture-archiving
systems, or PACS, include the inferior images, used to plan the rest of the
exam, that formerly were discarded without review.

"We always look at everything that's available," said William B. Morrison, a
radiologist at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia.

Jefferson's PACS, installed in 1998, led to a big jump in the number of kidney,
pelvic, liver, lung and lymph-node abnormalities detected on MRIs of the lower
spine. Suddenly, 10 per cent of patients had such abnormalities, compared with
four per cent before PACS.

How many accidentally discovered abnormalities turn out to be serious?

Of 202 that Morrison found at Jefferson, three per cent were cancers. Of 71
found on brain MRIs at Stanford, four per cent required urgent followup. Of 192
thyroid nodules in a Korean study, 29 per cent were malignant.

-hile the chances of serious disease are relatively small, clinicians dare not
be blase.

"Liability issues make it emotionally and financially costly to miss a cancer,"
said Mitch Schnall, a University of Pennsylvania radiologist and expert on MRIs
of the breast. "The physician can be asked, 'Why didn't you do this test?' even
if insurance won't pay for it."

No such ground rules apply when scans are done strictly for research purposes.
At many medical schools, research MRIs of the brain are performed by graduate
students and are not seen by a clinician skilled at interpreting images, much
less shared with patients.

Judy Illes, a neuroscientist at the Stanford Center for Biomedical Ethics, has
been urging the development of practice guidelines to protect both patients and
researchers.

"In an ideal world," she said, "we should couple research with as much medical
care as possible, but we can't do that without considering the cost."

Most patients want definitive answers, no matter what it takes to get them.

Jill Smiley, 40, a Philadelphia pharmaceutical technician with no risk factors
for breast cancer, was stunned 18 months ago when her first mammogram revealed
calcium deposits in her left breast -- a classic sign of early-stage disease. A
breast MRI could not rule out a malignancy, so she decided to have an MRI-guided
biopsy.

There was no cancer.

"I'm glad I went through it, because I'd rather know than not know," she said.
"I kept thinking, 'People who go through chemotherapy go through more pain than
this, so I just have to grit my teeth.' "

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ottawa Citizen, CanWest News Service, File; Staff prepare a
patient for a CAT scan in an Ottawa hospital.; Photo: Journal Stock; Lisa
Shields

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                                August 14, 2009

Trying to Understand the Health Policy Debate

LENGTH: 843 words


Since I am a long way from being a health care expert, I have tried to stay away
from the increasingly nasty and difficult health policy debate now raging
throughout America. As a parent and as someone who is treated for a variety of
typical getting older ailments, I find myself in regular contact with the health
care system, but also confess to finding it well beyond my comprehension.

As a student of organizational management, I am amazed by the incompetence and
waste I see, but also by the  outstanding skill, dedication and improved systems
that are clearly evident as well. Members of my family have found incredibly
high quality treatment for heart disease at St. Francis Hospital in Long Island,
and my family has also experienced wonderful care at the Hospital for Special
Surgery, Mt. Sinai Hospital and Columbia Presbyterian Hospital here in
Manhattan. Our personal physician is terrific, and like many fortunate
Americans, my employer, Columbia University, provides excellent, though
increasingly expensive, health insurance coverage.

Despite, or maybe because of the price tag, the health care system seems to be
doing a good job of keeping me and my family healthy. Health care costs continue
to rise in the United States, and when compared to other systems, I am told that
our outcomes are no better. The issue of cost control is incredibly difficult.
First, while we  can educate ourselves on treatment choices when we or a family
member get sick, picking a health care treatment option is more complicated than
buying a sofa, car or computer. First, we are emotionally engaged in the
decision due to the ultimate downside of making the wrong choice. I might be
willing to make decisions based on cost effectiveness when buying a car or a
computer, but when bringing a member of my family to the doctor, I want the best
possible health care&mdash;regardless of price. I am not willing to settle for
cost-effective health care.

Of course, it is insurance that gives me the luxury of ignoring price. Still,
asymmetric information, unpredictability and emotion make it difficult for
market-based cost pressure to work very well in the case of medicine.
Competition does not seem to be an effective means of cost control. From where I
sit, the price keeps going up, but modern medical technology is allowing many of
us to live longer and healthier lives. The question for our society is then, how
high are we willing to allow the price to rise? In a world of finite resources,
what are we willing to give up to be able to afford all of this improved health?

There are also two other fundamental questions that must be addressed when it
comes to the health care debate &ndash; the first one  ethical and the second
practical. The ethical question is how do we extend health care insurance to the
50 million Americans without coverage? The practical question is how do we pay
for this coverage? Even in the current economic crunch, America is simply too
wealthy a country to allow 50 million people&mdash;over 15% of our
population&mdash;to go without health care. Logically, there are two ways to
fund this: 1. Increased taxes, 2. Increased efficiency in the health care
system. We probably need both, but for decades we&rsquo;ve been unable to figure
out how to do it. I confess that I have no idea of what might work, and would
like to hear some reasoned debate on the topic.

While I am not a health policy expert, I do know something about politics, and
it is the politics of health care that many of us find distressing and
disgusting. The level of misinformation and anger is distressing. The sleazy
manipulation of the discussion by interest groups that are simply trying to
defend their dough is downright disgusting. This is a difficult and wrenching
debate. We need high quality cost-benefit analysis, creative thinking and
honesty. Instead, we are getting cooked numbers and shrill, uninformative lies.

Although I am satisfied with the health care I receive, I agree with President
Obama that the system is not sustainable and requires reform. I strongly believe
that people without health insurance must be provided with access to health
care. Despite the noise and dishonesty in the media, I think there is a growing
consensus about the need to restrain cost increases and about the importance of
extending insurance coverage as far as possible. While it may be too late for a
dignified, civil debate on the merits, perhaps we can still have one that
provides real information, clear choices and improved health policy.

While the noise and anger level is unpleasant, I give President Obama credit for
continuing to bring people back to the basics of the problem we must address. My
read of the debate from the outside is that we don&rsquo;t really know how to
solve this problem. Therefore, we need to set up a reform process that changes
the system, but that also permits mid-course corrections for the mistakes we are
bound to make. That may be too much to ask for, but I think that is what we
need.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 14, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

Medicare Panel Seeks Ideas for Getting More Bang for the Buck

Amy Goldstein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 950 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, July 13


When the nation's second-largest health insurer decided to examine how its
doctors were caring for heart attack victims, it was startled by what it found:
Fewer than half the patients were being given beta blockers, drugs widely known
to reduce the risk of another attack.

So the insurer, United Healthcare Corp., tried an experiment. It assigned its
employees to monitor the records of heart attack patients, call doctors, and
remind them that for about $ 10 a month, the medication often could ward off $
10,000 hospital bills and immeasurable suffering from a second attack.

United was able to step in, company officials today told members of a federal
commission exploring the future of Medicare, because it keeps detailed data on
its patients and physicians. And it has devoted considerable effort to mining
those records for information on what medical treatments are most worthwhile,
and which doctors provide them. Yet that research, company officials
acknowledged, runs squarely into intense public sensitivity about the way
confidential patient records are used.

Such quality-improvement efforts by private insurers -- and the ethical issues
they raise -- are of acute interest to members of the National Bipartisan
Commission on the Future of Medicare, a panel created by Congress and the White
House as part of last year's balanced-budget agreement to rethink the nation's
vast health insurance system for the elderly and the disabled.

The commission met outside Washington for the first time today to search for
health care innovations that Medicare might borrow -- and to take stock of
sentiment toward the changes it eventually might propose. Its recommendations
are due next March.

Some commission members said today that, with the program confronting a
financial crisis in a decade, Medicare must evolve beyond its traditional role
of paying medical bills and become part of budding movement within American
health care to measure more stringently the quality and cost-effectiveness of
what doctors do.

"When we have limited dollars . . . how can we make sure they are spent on the
highest and best use?" said Rep. Bill Thomas (R-Calif.), one of the commission's
chairmen.

The group chose Minneapolis for its first field hearing because of the nature of
Medi care care there: 85 percent of residents are in health maintenance
organizations or other managed-care plans. The city also has a record of
technological innovation in care.

This morning, commission members and their staffs fanned out into the community.
In addition to considering how to measure medical quality with United officials,
they visited a nursing home that has experimented with merging payments for
Medicare and Medicaid, the government health program for the poor. They visited
a medical technology firm and debated whether Medicare should cover innovations,
even if they increase Medicare costs. And they looked at how a major health
system is using videos and advanced telecommunications to export sophisticated
treatment to rural communities.

At the start of an afternoon-long hearing, the commission also played tutor,
trying to foster greater public understanding of the pressures bearing on the
program. Sen. John Breaux (D-La.) used charts to illustrate that the trust fund
that pays the elderly's hospital bills is expected to run out of money in 2008,
two years before 77 million "baby boomers" begin to reach retirement age. The
number of Americans on Medicare is expected to increase from 39 million today to
76 million in 2030, when the last of the baby boom retires.

Searching for ideas on how to provide good care for less money, the panel
listened to a coalition of large employers that bypasses insurance companies and
buys health services directly from groups of doctors and hospitals. The
commission members also heard from HMO executives who told them they have had
relative success at enrolling Medicare patients, although they said federal
reimbursement rates have been so low in many rural parts of the state that they
no longer operate there. Medicare managed care, which is now catching on across
the country, has existed here for many years.

Some of the hundreds of people who filled an auditorium of the city's convention
center urged the commission to consider fundamentally new approaches to
Medicare: Converting it entirely to a system of "medical savings accounts," for
example, or adopting a system of medical "rationing" to give the greatest help
to the most patients, while eliminating coverage for certain kinds of care.

Yet several elderly residents who also addressed the panel hinted at the
political resistance the commission may encounter if its ideas sound too
newfangled. "Traditional Medicare is the best answer," said 89-year-old Frances
Klafter.

Klafter said she understood "something has to be done to balance Medicare's
accounts." She suggested modest cuts in reimbursement rates for doctors and
modest increases in what patients must chip in. But she begged the commission to
leave the program essentially intact. "It protects all beneficiaries equally --
the well today and the sick tomorrow."

At the same time, speakers also reminded the commission why they must find ways
to change the program so that it remains solvent well into the next century.
Ruth Odegard said she would be delighted if Medicare added prescription benefits
to cover her mother's medications, which cost $ 500 per month. But she also
doesn't want the program to spend too much too soon.

"I need Medicare to be there when I turn 65," said Odegard, 59, who retired
recently after teaching elementary school for 35 years. "It may be all that I
have."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


                              339 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times Standard (California)

                           October 24, 2009 Saturday

Change needed

BYLINE: Letter to the Editor

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 152 words


Universal health care is the ethical position to take. Access to health care
should be the right of citizens in the United States. Who argues against a
community looking after its own?

We should insist that our government leaders ensure that everyone has minimal
insurance coverage so each of us has equal opportunity to compete and flourish
in society. The current nitpicking, fear-mongering and sloganeering is throwing
obstructions into the path of health insurance reform for the purpose of
preventing much needed change.

A healthy workforce means a stronger economy. We cannot compete in the free
market unless we can hear, see, move, chew, think, communicate and breathe.

Without universal basic health insurance coverage, access to health care is
sporadic, inefficient, and very expensive. Those who oppose reform should have
to answer why they believe health care is not a citizen's right.

Randall Perry

Eureka

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                                February 7, 2005

The Settlement Advisor And Fiduciary Concerns

BYLINE: BY BRANDON SMITH; Brandon Smith is assistant to the president at Life
Equity L.L.C., Hudson, Ohio, a life settlement provider. He can be reached at
bsmith@lifeequity.net.

SECTION: LIFE SETTLEMENTS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 854 words


If you want to help clients sell unwanted life insurance policies, you may want
to learn something about life settlement agents and brokers legal
responsibilities.

A life settlement is a relatively simple transaction involving the sale of a
property right, of a life insurance policy, through 3 primary parties.

The parties are the current owner of the policy, a third-party agent or broker,
and the life settlement provider that purchases the policy.

The agent or broker acts as a fiduciary of the owner and negotiates with
providers to get the best possible offer for the owner s policy. The purchase
price is almost always less than the face value of the policy but more than the
cash surrender value.

Because an insurance policy is a capital asset owned by an individual, trust or
other entity, one might compare the structure of a life settlement transaction
to the process of selling other high-value assets, such as houses.

Like a homeowner selling a house, a policy seller needs help from a
knowledgeable professional who is paid to act in the best interests of the
seller and understands the complexities involved with the disposition of the
property.

From the standpoint of the original policy owner, completing a life settlement
transaction is similar to surrendering the policy.

Once the deal is completed, the original policy owner receives a large sum of
cash and can stop making premium payments.

The new owner of the policy, the life settlement provider, starts paying the
premiums and, eventually, collects the policy death benefits.

Of course, completing a life settlement is different from surrendering a policy.
One difference is that the policy remains in force. The provider must support
the policy. The second difference is that, in most cases, the original policy
owner gets a much higher price than the owner would have received if the owner
had surrendered the policy to the insurer.

An agent or broker usually starts the life settlement process by seeking
competitive bids from providers.

Today, regulation of the life settlement industry is not the same in all states,
and some states do not regulate the industry at all. Because of those
differences, it is imperative that an agent or broker solicit bids only from
providers that are both experienced and ethical.

A policy owner who goes through the standard bidding process must submit a
questionnaire and authorize medical releases. The releases must comply with the
privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996, and all parties involved in the transaction must keep the information
submitted confidential.

To ensure that the parties respect the policy owner s confidences, it is
essential that the agent or broker seek bids only from reputable providers that
have proven track records of complying with the law and adhering to high ethical
standards.

When lawyers conduct lawsuit settlement negotiations, they must share all offers
with their clients. Similarly, agents or brokers helping with life settlement
transactions must share all offers with policy sellers. The seller has the
ability to make the final decision on which offer to accept.

To help the owner fully understand the structure of an offer, some states
require the agent or broker to furnish the amount and method of calculation of
the agent or broker s commission. Other states require only that the agent or
broker furnish that information if the policy seller asks for that information.

A financial advisor who is helping a client evaluate life settlement offers
should help the policy seller consider factors such as provider licensing,
availability of institutional funding and the strength of the provider s
compliance department, as well as price.

Within 3 days after the seller has accepted an offer, the provider should
transfer the purchase price to an escrow account. The policy seller then will
have access to the funds within 3 days of the escrow agent receiving
confirmation from the insurance company that title to the policy has been
transferred to the provider.

After the transaction is completed, the provider may begin to call upon the
insured or named representative of the insured to ask about the insured s
health.

The agent or broker should make sure that the policy seller understands that, in
states with life settlement regulations, the seller is entitled to a grace
period, or a rescission period. During this period, the policy will revert to
the possession of the policy seller if the seller chooses to cancel the
transaction within 15 days of the date on which the funds were made available to
the seller.

Furthermore, the policy seller is automatically entitled to the policy death
benefit if the insured perishes within 15 days of the date on which the funds
were made available to the owner. If the seller dies during the 15-day grace
period or cancels the transaction, the provider must be reimbursed for the
purchase price paid and for any premiums paid to keep the policy in force.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 The National Underwriter Company


                              341 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Alamogordo Daily News (New Mexico)

                            October 22, 2010 Friday

Ethics top consideration for PRC District 5 candidates

BYLINE: Alamogordo Daily News Steve Ramirez, For the Daily News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 725 words


LAS CRUCES For the two candidates vying for the District 5 seat on the New
Mexico Public Regulation Commission, it all come down to ethics.

Both Republican Ben Hall and Democrat Bill McCamley are convinced that controls
to tighten ethical standards among commission member need to be implemented, and
pronto. Those reforms are critical to restore the public's faith in the
commission, they said.

McCamley said his experience as a Do?a Ana County commissioner, from 2005
through 2008, and a one-year term as a member of a statewide Ethics Task Force,
are just two factors that make him qualified to serve on the commission.

"It's well known that the PRC has recently experienced a number of ethical
problems," McCamley said. "My experience as a Do?a Ana County commissioner,
rewriting the county's ethics ordinance which helped solve many of the county's
election problems, a member of the state's ethics task force, and with Common
Cause will help me to begin work on those ethical issues right away.

"Furthermore, the PRC works with extremely technical areas. My education and
experience in dealing with very technical problems, background in economic
development, and willingness to try new things make me the most qualified person
to start tackling these issues on my first day."

Hall said his 40-plus years of business experience and time served on the
Lincoln County Commission and New Mexico House of Representatives make him the
best qualified candidate.

"One of the reasons I am seeking the District 5 seat on the Public Regulation
Commission is because of my conviction that an elected official, from the
governor on down, has the obligation to give his or her individual attention to
all matters that come before them in their elected office," Hall said. "At the
present time, this is not being done in the PRC. A majority of past and present
commissioners have spent too much time protecting their own interest instead of
their public duties.

Hall said the elected commissioners have delegated too much authority to hired
staff.

"Over the past several years the commissioners have inadvertently eroded away
some of their authority simply by passing certain decision-making authorities
away to their chief of staff or division chiefs. In some cases this authority
has never been recovered," he said. "This has lead to many decisions being made
without commission approval or input from these commissioners."

McCamley, 32, of Las Cruces, said his top priorities will be keeping utility
rates low, creating jobs through alternative energy resources within the state,
and establishing more oversight of health care insurance companies.

"New Mexico has an abundance of the alternative energy resources that will power
the economy of the 21st century. We need to promote these resources so that New
Mexicans can find jobs in these areas during the years to come," he said.
"Oversight of insurance companies should include finding ways of streamlining
reimbursements so that care can be provided faster and cheaper. Also, practices
that make insurance more expensive for small businesses should be examined and
reformed."

Hall, 73, of Ruidoso, said his top priorities include regaining control of the
PRC for the commissioners, making the commission more publicly accountable on
all issues that come before it, and showing the public that it can trust and
respect commission members.

"After proper hearings, elected officials, not bureaucrats, should make or
approve any decision that will effect the livelihood of New Mexico citizens,"
Hall said. "This will put accountability back into the PRC. The voters will know
to whom they can turn to for answers to their concerns. The commissioners must
control their own house.

"I am (also) of the opinion that all rules and regulations in every division of
the PRC should be reviewed to determine if they are in the best interest of the
citizens. If changes are necessary, I will do all that is in my power to see
that these changes come about, either within the PRC, the New Mexico Legislature
or the Attorney General's office. Every citizen has the right to expect that
their interest will be protected by their elected officials. I intend to uphold
that right."


Steve Ramirez writes for the Las Cruces Sun-News, a member of the Texas-New
Mexico Newspapers Partnership, and can be reached at sramirez@lcsun-news.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2010 Alamogordo Daily News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 11, 2016 Friday
                                 First Edition

Ethics secondary in life insurance?

BYLINE: Benjamin Koh - Dr Benjamin Koh alleges he was sacked by CBA in August
2015 for being a whistleblower

SECTION: BUSINESS; Opinion & Analysis; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 802 words


The behaviour of Commonwealth Bank's financial planning division was predicted
several years prior in research by Dr June Smith from Victoria University.

In the thesis on Professionalism and Ethics in Financial Planning, Dr Smith
showed there are numerous individual, situational and contextual predictors of
ethical decision-making.

One major finding was that organisational structure contributed substantially
towards ethical behaviour (or lack of) of employees.

Smith's study supports views expressed by Linda Trevino, professor of
organisational behaviour and ethics that unethical conduct in business is not
simply the result of bad apples.

While research does not condone or relieve the individual violator of
accountability, Trevino says those who create the environment and the
organisational structure in which decision-making occurs also share
responsibility.

Hierarchy encourages obedience to authority and the displacement of moral agency
to superiors.

Corporations therefore have an important impact on the social norms adopted by
employees through clear mandates and structural separation of the employees'
roles and reporting structures within the business.

Most of the major banks in Australia have a life insurance division. Within this
sector, issues of ethics are arguably even more important.

If financial losses from unethical (or illegal) conduct of financial
institutions were bad for customers, the impact on customers would be
devastating when translated into the life insurance sector.

This is because such customers are at their frailest and medically most
vulnerable and often are fighting for their lives. Literally.

That is why the life insurance contract is a covenant of utmost good faith and
is a principle that guides all parties from the point of inception at
application to the point of fulfilment in the event of a claim submission.

In the life insurance environment, there is often an imbalance of information
held between the insurer and the insured. Insurers often strive to maximise the
accuracy of medical evidence that is obtained from claimants on the premise of
avoiding fraudulent claims.

Such a goal is prudent in making the best and fairest assessment by an insurer
for all policyholders by ensuring only legitimate claims are paid (and
maintaining a profit for the business).

Take for example the assessment of a terminal illness claim.

Under legislation, a superannuation life insurance policy with a terminal
illness benefit entitles an insured person to be paid the benefit when two
treating doctors certify a claimant's condition is terminal, with a life
expectancy of less than 12 months (this has recently been amended to be 24
months).

Parliament has recognised this is an assessment made by the tutored medical
understanding of doctors with expertise on the illness, be it for an end-stage
cancer or patients with organ failure.

In the context of life insurance, the claims assessor holds the delegated
authority to determine whether to pay a claim, notwithstanding the views of the
treating doctors' expert opinions.

In the context of life insurance through a superannuation fund, the trustee has
much sway in that final decision, but not being medically trained, most trustees
would defer such determinations to the contracted insurer's claims assessor.
Therein lies the problem.

Few claims assessors, if any, have a medical background. So it would seem
curious these non-medical assessors wield such power.

For claimants with organ failures, some assessors assess such claims not by the
dire state the claimant is in, but rather on the basis the claimant may receive
an organ transplant in the future.

Such an approach is ethically untenable because a patient's eligibility and
placement on an organ transplant list is confidential and there is no guarantee
of receiving an organ before death; or if an organ transplant does occur there
is no guarantee of its success.

Moreover, if the purpose of a claims assessment per the insurer's mantra is to
eliminate fraudulent claims, how does it apply here? Surely one cannot fake an
organ failure verified by objective biochemical results and or other clinical
parameters? What the example illustrates is the real-world application of claims
assessment in the life insurance industry.

Senior leaders in the financial institutions would try to blame such behaviours
on "bad apples" and shirk all responsibility, carrying on business as usual.

Do leaders in an institution that consciously hires individuals with no relevant
medical background, delegate authority of medical claim determination to
medically untutored individuals, and provide no clear ethics mandate on how to
uphold the spirit of utmost good faith really be without blame?

If senior leaders keep passing the buck, perhaps they should also stop keeping
the big bucks.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In the life insurance environment the insurer normally knows
more than the insured.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                             June 22, 2006 Thursday

Merrill Lynch raises 2006 earnings estimate for Teva;
The 2007 estimate is reduced. Leader: Teva is the most attractive stock in
Israel.

BYLINE: Gil Shlomo

LENGTH: 979 words


US investment house Merrill Lynch has raised its estimates for Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Nasdaq: TEVA; TASE: TEVA) for 2006, but cut its
estimates for 2007.

Yesterday, Teva shares fell 9.5%, weighed down by news of the rearguard action
by Merck to protect the market share of its anti-cholesterol blockbuster drug
Zocor. Merck announced it was negotiating a price reduction for Zocor with
health insurer United Health Group Inc. Teva won a 180-day exclusivity period in
which to market its generic version of the drug, simvastatin. Lower priced Zocor
is liable to cut into Teva's potential market share.

Merrill Lynch estimates that Teva's earnings per share (excluding options
expense) will rise by almost 10% to $2.01, but has cut its 2007 earnings per
share estimate by nearly 6%, to $2.22.

Merrill Lynch's model assumes that Teva will market generic Zocor exclusively
for six months, at a price 50% below that of the ethical drug. The investment
bank sees a gross profit margin of 70% during the exclusivity period. Once the
exclusivity period is over, Merrill Lynch sees a very competitive market
developing, and says this will bring the price of the drug down by 95%.

Teva itself, Merrill Lynch notes, believes that its own forecast of a $0.20-0.25
addition to earnings per share from generic Zocor still holds, and that Merck's
action harms competition. Senator Charles Schumer of New York has raised the
issue.

Merrill Lynch says a further contribution to Teva's profit this year will come
from its generic version of Pfizer's anxiety treatment Zoloft.

William Blair: Zocor becomes a three-horse race

Analysts at investment house William Blair & Company say the talks between
UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH), the second largest health insurer in the US and
Merck, the ethical manufacturer of Zocor, is problematic news for Teva both from
the aspect of pricing of Zocor (and its generic counterparts) and in terms of
market share for Teva and the generic industry as a whole. This is set to
continue if other ethical companies pursue similar strategies to that of Merck.

The analysts nevertheless believe that Merck's strategy reflects a one-off
attempt to maintain whatever market share it can for Zocor, its largest selling
product (with 2005 US sales of $3.1 billion), rather than a wide ranging change
in strategy. In any event, the agreement between Merck and UnitedHealth Group
may well include other incentives aside from lower prices for Zocor.

William Blair concludes by rating Teva "Buy" in light of the stock's current
weakness.

Leader Capital Markets: Teva the most attractive stock in Israel

Analysts at Leader Capital Markets Ltd. (TASE:LDRC) have rated Teva "Buy", and
set a target price of $45, 40% higher than the current price on Wall Street
after yesterday's drop. They say that "Teva is the most attractive stock in the
Israeli market."

Leader analyst Uri Hershkovitz expects that Teva will post earnings per share of
$1.90 in 2006, even if Merck sharply reduces the price of Zocor to the point
that its contribution to profit is less than $0.10 per share.

Leader expects the synergy with Ivax Corp. (acquired by Teva), to contribute
$0.10 earnings per share to Teva stock in 2007, giving it a multiple of 16, even
if the growth in Europe in sales of Azilect and Copaxone (Teva's ethical drugs)
is offset by harm to revenue from exclusivity (Teva will launch Zoloft,
Pravachol, and Proscar under exclusivity).

IBI: Zocor is an unique case; drug sales are likely to rise once the patent
expires

Analysts at IBI Investment House Ltd. (TASE:IBI) have reiterated their "Buy"
rating for Teva (target price update pending), and expect that given the lack of
a substantive price differential between the original drug and its generic
counterpart, Teva's market share is likely to be substantially lower than that
of the branded product.

IBI says, however, that Merck's negotiation's with medical insurer UnitedHealth
Group were limited to a single product and may harm competition, thereby
triggering intervention by the regulatory authorities.

IBI believes that Zocor is a unique situation where sales are likely to grow
once the patent expires. This led Merck to conclude that it would be better to
reduce the price of the branded product and increase sales, rather than maintain
a high price and a reduced market share.

Citigroup: Little impact

" We believe this contract alone will have little or no impact on Teva's
revenues and earnings from simvastatin (generic Zocor)," says Citigroup of
Merck's deal.

"In general, drug pricing contracts between manufacturers and retailers or
benefit managers are a battleground of discounts, rebates and other incentives -
you win some, you lose some

"Merck has a strong franchise in managed care and may have similar contracts
with other PBMs . As a result, the short-term implication of Merck's aggressive
pricing on Zocor is that Teva may need to be more aggressive on pricing than
previously expected

"We had modelled $311 million sales and $0.24 net EPS from simvastatin. Assuming
lower pricing and volumes, we would project $231 million sales and $0.16 net EPS
- a total loss of $75m sales and $0.08 EPS. We believe our forecasts are
conservative

"Simvastatin is NOT YET IN OUR NUMBERS: we will add sales and EPS after market
launch, due to remaining legal uncertainty

"Key medium-term question after Zocor: will branded companies be more aggressive
on pricing ahead of future patent expirations? This could lower the value of
generic pipelines and paragraph IV legal challenges

"Even so, we believe the 5% drop on today's news is overdone and more due to
investor worries about the generic sector as a whole. We reiterate Buy/ High
Risk (1H) rating and $51 share price target."

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes.co.il - on June
22, 2006

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2006

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             August 9, 2016 Tuesday

A private investment firm with a heart

BYLINE: John Hoffmire For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 702 words


Sarona is a private impact investment firm, deploying growth capital to reach
growth-stage companies in high-growth countries across frontier and emerging
markets. It is essentially what is called a fund of funds. It invests in a
number of different impact investment funds and, in some ways, acts like a
mutual fund of private investment vehicles. One of the main differences is that
you cannot move in and out of your investments in this type of fund of funds.

Through their primary strategy of investing in local private equity funds, they
seek to build companies that deliver high risk-adjusted returns while promoting
positive ethical, social and environmental values. They aim to carefully select
only those local managers who are able to demonstrate that they add real
strategic and operational value to the companies they invest in. They believe
that small to mid-market companies, in their expansion stage, represent one of
the best risk-adjusted opportunities within these fast-growing markets and they
prioritize this for two reasons. Often it is these fast-growing companies that
create the most and best employment for growing populations and offer good
returns to the investors.

Because it is extremely difficult to capture these types of opportunities
without a local presence, they adopt the fund of funds approach to investing.
The fund of funds model enables them to focus on cultivating lasting
relationships - built on mutual trust and respect - with experienced local fund
managers who are able to navigate the complex realities of their home markets.

With the right partners and strategy, growing highly successful and profitable
companies can have a significant developmental impact. This is what drives
Sarona: building a diversified portfolio of funds and companies to deliver
growth that matters.

Sarona Frontier Markets Fund 2 has been widely recognized as a particularly
successful example of a good impact investment fund of funds. With a $15mm
equity guarantee from the Canadian government, and a $50mm credit guarantee from
OPIC (a U.S. government agency), the fund raised $150mm of equity and debt,
driving private capital into mid-market companies in a careful interplay of
finance and values. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations
are at the core of how Sarona implements its strategy.

In 2015, the companies in Sarona's portfolio made great strides in their effort
to create and improve jobs. They reported a 6 percent increase in the number of
jobs, resulting in 86,145 full-time positions at 146 reporting companies. The
number of net jobs created was 4,558, or 31 jobs per reporting company.
Companies continued to provide high quality benefit packages. Health insurance
was the most popular benefit (69 percent). The majority of employers also
provided maternity and paternity leave (57 percent) and disability coverage (50
percent).

Sarona's ESG and impact policy outlines how the company's beliefs will be
reflected in its operations. It sets expectations for how Sarona will consider
ESG issues and impact outcomes in its funds. For Sarona, consideration of ESG
issues means taking material, ethical, environmental, social and governance
risks and opportunities into account when making investment decisions. At the
same time, Sarona defines impact investments as investments made with the
intention of generating positive social and environmental outcomes alongside a
financial return.

Sometimes, the work of a fund group such as Sarona jumps off the page when one
cites an example. With the support of the Canadian government and a group called
MEDA, Cleopatra Hospital Group in Egypt is setting an example with a pilot
training scheme designed to empower nurses and enhance their skill set.
Encouraged by the fund manager invested in by Sarona, The Abraaj Group,
Cleopatra also implemented a sophisticated, female-oriented HR policy and
benefit scheme that ensures staff is paid according to merit rather than gender
- something that is altogether uncommon in Egypt.

John Hoffmire is director of the Impact Bond Fund at Saïd Business School at
Oxford University and directs the Center on Business and Poverty at the
Wisconsin School of Business at UW-Madison.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              345 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday

Mind Menu Where to feed your intellect

SECTION: CURRENTS; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 398 words


Indicates wheelchair-accessible.

Indicates listening devices.

Events are free unless otherwise indicated.

Lectures & speeches

Faces of Hope. Marlene Santoyo, Terry Foss will speak, show photos from AFSC
delegation to Jerusalem and West Bank. "Pizza & Politics" series. Chestnut Hill
Library Community Rm, 8711 Germantown Ave; 215-248-0977. Donations welcome. 7
p.m. Mon.

International Polar Year 2007-08. Presentation by Mary Albert. Geographical
Society sponsors. Union League of Phila., 140 S Broad St; 610-649-5220. $25
lecture only; $65 for lecture, dinner, tour of Union League. 6:30 p.m. Wed.
Reservations required.

Symposiums & seminars

State-Wide Solutions to the Health Insurance Crisis: Can Pennsylvania Have Its
Own Single-Payer, Universal Health Insurance? Adam Gilden Tsai speaks. Ethical
Society, 1906 S Rittenhouse Sq; 215-735-3456. 7 p.m. Tue.

Week of Writing at Drexel. Reading marathon. "Publishing and Editing,"
12:30-1:50 p.m. Tue.; "Craft of Poetry," 10-11 a.m. Wed.; "Craft of Fiction,"
1-2 p.m. Wed. Mandell Theater Lobby, Drexel U, 33d & Chestnut Sts; 215-895-2430.
10 a.m.-4 p.m. Tue & Wed.

Authors & literature

Jonathan Alter. Author of "The Defining Moment: FDR's Hundred Days and the
Triumph of Hope." National Constitution Center, 525 Arch St; 215-409-6700.
www.constitutioncenter.org. $12 members; $15 nonmembers; $6 students K-12. 6:30
p.m. Mon. Reservations required.

Penn Bookstore, 3601 Walnut St; 215-898-7595. http://upenn.edu/bookstore.
Jennifer Weiner, author of "Goodnight Nobody," 7 p.m. Mon. Susan Warner &
Jennifer Lin, "Sole Sisters: Stories of Women and Running," 7 p.m. Tue. Lisa
Hark, "The Whole Grain Diet Miracle," 12:15 p.m. Wed. Lisa A. Phillips, "Public
Radio: Behind the Voices," 7 p.m. Wed. James T. Campbell, "Middle Passages:
African American Journeys to Africa," 7 p.m. Thu. Steven Conn, "Metropolitan
Philadelphia: Living With the Presence of the Past" 5:30 p.m. Fri.

Screenings

"Blow Out." Brian De Palma's 1981 film. Sponsored by Friends of the Boyd.
International House, 3701 Chestnut St; 215-567-2970. www.friendsoftheboyd.org.
$15 for intro, film, after-film refreshments; $50 VIP tickets for pre-showing
meal. 7:30 p.m. Fri.

Please send complete information two weeks in advance to Currents, The Inquirer,
Box 41705, Phila. 19101; e-mail currents@phillynews.com; or fax 215-854-4483.
Please include a daytime phone number for verification.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                  All Editions

It's a start

SECTION: Pg. A4

LENGTH: 242 words


The Catholic representatives who dragged their heels until Sunday afternoon on
the health care bill have made a huge issue about making absolutely certain that
not a dime of theirs or their fellow believers' money is spent to enable women
with different religious and ethical perspectives to have covered whatever
health care interventions they and their doctors deem appropriate under the
bill.

Organizations of priests whose institutions are not taxed also have strongly
intervened.

I respect these representatives and their religious leaders' personal religious
and ethical views. Yet those of us who were dead set against the Iraq invasion.
which has murdered hundreds of thousands of Iraqi children, women and male
civilians  and killed thousands of men and women of the U.S. and allied armed
forces and civilians had our tax money used for this disgusting war and the
killings that have resulted.

Sometimes you put aside your personal values for the good of fellow citizens and
behave like Americans and not Catholics or anti-war objectors.

Those who are dead set against insuring more than 30 million uninsured, because
they fear their personal policies might cost more are similarly self-indulgent.

We are a nation of people who owe our fellow citizens of every religious and
ethical persuasion the right to get reasonable health coverage. The bill is
seriously flawed - it doesn't go far enough in many ways but it's a start.

Tom Rusk, M.D.

Orrington

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Bangor Daily News


                              347 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Business Times Singapore

                          September 15, 2016 Thursday

New ethical guidelines for doctors paying intermediary fees

BYLINE: Cai Haoxiang , New ethical guidelines for doctors paying intermediary
fees

SECTION: GOVERNMENT & ECONOMY; Top Stories

LENGTH: 548 words


Singapore

THE Singapore Medical Council (SMC) has revised its ethical guidelines to
address financial arrangements between doctors and intermediaries known as
managed care companies or third party administrators (TPAs). The new guidelines
come into force on Jan 1, 2017.

SMC said doctors must not allow pressures inherent in these schemes to prevent
them from providing the standard of care expected.

Referral fees to TPAs and insurance entities must "reflect their actual work in
handling and processing the patients". The referral fees must not be based
primarily on services provided or the fees the doctors collect. Fees paid must
not be so high that they become fee splitting or fee sharing arrangements.
Referral services fees passed on to patients must be disclosed.

In explanatory notes, SMC added that patients' interests are compromised when
doctors under-treat them due to financial pressures, over-treat them to cover
fees they must pay, or overcharge them to redeem costs from such fees.

In a written parliamentary reply on Wednesday, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
pointed to how the revised guidelines explicitly stated that patient care cannot
be compromised by such intermediary arrangements.

Member of Parliament (MP) Desmond Choo (Tampines GRC) had asked whether such
administrative fees paid by doctors to managed care companies will drive up
patient costs.

MOH said it is working with medical professional bodies and associations to
raise doctors' awareness of appropriate arrangements with TPAs.

It will also continue to work with the Life Insurance Association to remind
Integrated Shield Plan insurers to ensure appointed TPAs do not have any
conflict of interest and disclose to policyholders financial arrangements with
doctors.

MOH noted in its reply that it and SMC have received feedback from individual
doctors and the Singapore Medical Association in recent months. The feedback was
on these intermediaries entering into contracts with doctors, where the doctor
would commit to pay a fee for each patient referred by the intermediary.

"This raises concerns that TPA's decisions on patient referral may be influenced
by the fee arrangement rather than the interest of the patients," MOH said. It
added that a particular concern was if the fee is determined as a percentage of
the doctor's charges, without relation to the actual services rendered by the
TPA.

TPAs are intermediaries which can ensure a ready pool of patients for doctors,
and also help companies and insurers manage the costs of health insurance plans.

The Business Times reported last Friday that some doctors had been frustrated
over TPA arrangements, such as low remuneration for general practitioner
consultations, lower margins for drugs and procedures, and late payments for
services already provided. Another issue highlighted was how patients might be
referred to specialist doctors because of the doctors' financial arrangements
with TPAs, instead of the referral being in their best interests.

Mr Choo, the MP, used to work for billionaire investor Peter Lim, who owns
healthcare provider Thomson Medical. Mr Choo told BT on Wednesday night that he
hoped MOH will consider regulating TPAs. "TPAs are here to stay and to a certain
extent affect how medical care is organised and provided to patients."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 20, 2005, Thursday

My company does not allow me to tip maids while travelling on business

BYLINE: Randy Cohen

SECTION: Features; Times2; 3

LENGTH: 317 words


When I travel for work, my company allows me to tip hotel staff, taxi drivers
and male waiters but not maids (who are always female and usually from
minorities).

Rather than argue the point, I submit two extra taxi receipts to cover tips to
the maid. Although this is not totally correct, isn't it less unethical than my
company's policy?

If by "not totally correct" you mean "utterly fraudulent", then we are as one.
If you mean something less self-serving, there is a bit more to consider.

The capriciousness of your company's tipping policy and its inherent, if perhaps
unintended, sexism and racism is undeniable. However, your tipping maids -
something you believe to be an ethical obligation -is not contingent on your
company's reimbursing you. If it is the right thing to do, it's still right even
if it comes out of your pocket. This does not mean, however, that you may submit
bogus receipts to get your boss to cover this expense. I think my boss should
pay at least part of my health insurance but that doesn't allow me to use fake
taxi receipts -presumably for a ride from here to Neptune -to get reimbursed.

Your action may well be less unethical than your company's policy -which does
indeed sound idiotic -and it is no doubt less unethical than much that was done
by the late Idi Amin, but the ability to name a bigger villain than yourself
does not justify your misdeeds.

Perhaps you should argue the point and ask your company to amend this policy,
but meanwhile you should not file fake receipts or eat the flesh of your
political rivals.

Can you suggest solutions to this ethical dilemma?

Or do you have dilemmas of your own? Write to: The Ethicist, Times Features, 1
Pennington Street, London E98 1TT. E-mail: ethicist@thetimes.co.uk.

Readers' solutions will be published tomorrow.

The Ethicist originates from The New York Times Magazine


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited


                              349 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                October 17, 1993, Sunday, SUNDAY SECOND EDITION

The dilemmas of DNA magic Will we be able to keep genetic data to ourselves?

BYLINE: By Brad Evenson SOUTHAMSTAR NETWORK

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. H6

LENGTH: 902 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


   OTTAWA - Abby Lippman calls it the Gene-of-the-Week Club. Each week, a
specific gene is trumpeted as the scapegoat for a litany of human failings or
diseases.

"Geneticization," says the McGill University professor of epidemiology. "It
applies DNA to all that's thought wrong with society."

And genes - which control human characteristics - are the ultimate privacy
frontier.

There are virtually no laws safeguarding the privacy of DNA information. In
fact, the DNA codes of countless Canadians are stored all over the country in
blood samples or leftover tissue in hospital labs.

Yet the unregulated use of genetic information is already having profound
effects on people's lives, particularly in the United States.

"We had a case of a woman who was pregnant with her second child - her first
infant had cystic fibrosis," says Nachama Wilker, executive director of the
Council for Responsible Genetics, a U.S.-based watchdog group.

"She wanted a (genetic) test to see if the second (child) had the gene for CF,
and it did. They decided to birth the child. But her (health insurance company)
told her this would forfeit her medical coverage, and also jeopardized it for
the first child."

This is hardly new. In the 1970s, U.S. insurance companies charged higher rates
to black people identified as having the gene that causes sickle cell anemia.
With so few black customers, Canadian insurers did not.

Undeniably, genetic research is meant to make the world a better place. By the
age of 25, one in 20 Canadians is diagnosed with a genetic illness. Finding
"defective" genes can lead to early diagnoses or cures. But they can also lead
to God-like value judgments about individuals.

In the next few years, genetic tests could tell parents, before their child is
born, whether it will be a manic depressive. Dyslexic. Schizophrenic.

"Since we're all susceptible to something, someone is going to have to decide
what is wrong and what is not," says Lippman.

"I don't trust the people with the power to make those decisions."

These conditions carry stigmas in society today. Does an unborn child have a
right to DNA privacy? After all, it is not uncommon for babies to be aborted
because of the revelations found by DNA tests. It's an ethical minefield.

For example, some women make abortion decisions for reasons of economics or
convenience, says Bartha Knoppers, chair of the medical, ethical, legal and
social committee of the Canadian Human Genome Program.

"Like all abortion decisions, what makes a genetic decision wrong when deciding
on the basis of a holiday or a job promotion is (considered) right?" Knoppers
says.

Recently, scientists at the U.S. National Cancer Institute reported there is a
DNA sequence that many gay men share.

If accurate, it is the first example of "higher order behavior that has been
found to be linked to a particular gene," Dr. Richard Pillard, a Boston
University School of Medicine professor and co-author of the study, told
reporters.

What implications does this have for U.S. soldiers? The U.S. army discourages
homosexuals from joining up. Yet American soldiers must provide DNA samples. And
some Canadian soldiers have provided the federal government with "reference"
samples for use in criminal investigations.

"How will their privacy be protected?" asks Knoppers.

"What society must decide is, do we treat genetic information like a fingerprint
or social insurance number? Or is it medical data to be kept confidential
between a patient and doctor?"

Already, police forces and intelligence agencies in Canada and the U.S. are
compiling databanks with thousands of DNA profiles. Virginia alone has collected
more than 40,000 DNA samples from convicted felons, ranging from rapists to
those jailed for mail fraud. Other states have followed suit.

In Canada, the recently released Changing the Landscape report on violence
against women recommends taking a DNA "fingerprint" from everyone accused - not
convicted - of a sexual offence to create a DNA reference databank.

"If one makes safety a priority, then reference checks become more important
(than privacy)," says panel co-chair Pat Marshall.

Between mid-1989 and July 1991, the RCMP received about 80 requests for forensic
DNA typing. These included tests of body fluids such as blood and semen for use
in investigations of violent or sexual crimes. It completed its analysis and
reported on 44 cases, says the federal privacy commissioner's Genetic Testing
and Privacy.

"What happens if the accused is not convicted?" asks Knoppers. "How is (the DNA
profile) erased? How do we know it isn't kept in a coded form, or sent to the
FBI?"

Employers are also using DNA information to make decisions. For example, Dow
Chemical did genetic monitoring on employees in the early 1980s to determine how
they react to workplace hazards.

In 1989, a U.S. Congress office conducted a survey of large U.S. companies,
utilities and unions. It found 12 companies genetically screened employees or
job applicants. Nine had screened 10,000 or more employees. One petroleum
company with more than 10,000 employees reported monitoring to test for genetic
damage. No Canadian company was doing so.

"Will individuals be able to keep their genetic information away from their
employers, or the federal government?" asks Wilker of the Council for
Responsible Genetics.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              350 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                         Roberson Insurance Agency Inc

                                1945 Malbon Road
                           Virginia Beach,  VA 23456
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (757) 426-9797
URL: www.mylocalbroker.net

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   For over 20 years, Roberson Insurance Agency, Inc. has been brokering the
health insurance needs of local Virginia employers and their employee benefit
programs, individuals, families, the self-employed, & senior citizens in the
Hampton Roads area.  We've seen a lot of change in health insurance over the
years, but one thing hasn't changed - our service to you. We are built on a
foundation of high ethical standards, outstanding customer service, and taking a
problem-solving approach to finding the most affordable health insurance plan to
fit employers' health care coverage needs.  We offer free health insurance
quotes for Virginia businesses and individuals and provide consultations at no
cost and no obligation. We will be honest in our assessments and
recommendations. If you are paying too much for coverage, we will tell you. If
the plan you choose is not comprehensive enough for your needs, we will let you
know. It's our job to be honest and get you the BEST insurance plan based on
your needs. With over 20 years of experience, you can be sure you are getting
the best service and that you will choose the best deal.  We hope you will give
us the opportunity to show you what we can do for you.  At Roberson Insurance
Agency, we offer several commitments to our clients:   checkmark We promise to
provide you with top-notch customer service.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              351 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                              July 13, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Dilemma of cost tricky one for doctors

BYLINE: Peter James, The Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 712 words


Patients priorities are always supposed to come first, but doctors can find
themselves in ethically challenging situations when their preferred treatment is
at odds with how their employer wants them to proceed.

With the high cost of some forms of treatment and a healthcare system constantly
searching for the best way to divvy up finite resources, doctors are forced to
weigh competing values -- and it's rarely an easy decision, according to Anita
Ho, an assistant professor at the W. Maurice Young Centre for Applied Ethics at
UBC.

"The physician is in a dual role situation," she said.

"They have to be a steward to the organization, they're responsible to make sure
their practice is in compliance with what the facility would promote. But at the
same time they have an obligation to what's in the best interest of the
patient."

Ho cautioned that doctors need to be sure exceptional treatments they recommend
are approved by Health Canada and that they're not suggesting an alternative
treatment as an experimental trial. She said the procedures they propose must
also be safe for the patient.

A myriad of ethical issues came to light surrounding the departure of oncologist
Dr. Suresh Katakkar from the BC Cancer Centre for the North. Katakkar resigned
as the chief oncologist in June after the BC Cancer Agency launched an
investigation into his practices, which included using treatments outside of
standard protocols. In a letter to patients, Katakkar insisted he always had his
patients' best interests in mind when he made decisions to bend the rules.

The investigation is ongoing and the cancer agency will not comment on the
inquiry.

Some of Katakkar's former patients believe the reason he ran afoul of the
provincial agency is because he constantly pushed for more expensive treatment
options.

The issue of costs come up when a certain treatment is unusually expensive or if
the patient isn't covered by provincial health coverage but is in need of
specialized treatment. Ho said it's dangerous to regularly make exceptions and
approve an expensive treatment just for one patient because the decisions aren't
always made for the right reasons.

"In general doing micro-allocations is very difficult ethically or economically
because very often it goes back down to an emotional appeal," she said.

Doctors can also find themselves in a tough spot if they recommend a treatment
that may be done in a private clinic or in the United States, but the patient
isn't able to pay for it.

"The family may say, 'Well we can't afford it elsewhere. You have the know-how
to do it, you should do it for us,'" Ho said.

"Then sometimes in those situations the clinician can be in a bind."

Doctors in BC are beholden to the Canadian Medical Association's (CMA) ethics
guidelines which cover everything from putting the well-being of the patient
first to doctors recognizing their own limitations. The four-page document has
54 points doctors should keep in mind when conducting their business.

The CMA first published a code of ethics in 1868 and has been constantly
updating and revising it ever since. The document has evolved drastically over
the years -- for instance in the original version patients were strongly
discouraged from seeking out second opinions, while the most recent edition
encourages the practice.

Doctors receive some ethical training in medical school, but there's no
requirement they engage in any further ethics education during their ongoing
professional instruction.

A 2005 University of Toronto study which surveyed 12 ethics specialists at
Toronto hospitals revealed that conflicts over treatment decisions were the top
ethical issues doctors in that city faced.

Many of the disputes cited in the study revolved around families of terminally
ill patients disagreeing with doctors on how to proceed.

"Disagreements range from withdrawing aggressive treatment from a terminally ill
patient to a family physician refusing a patient's request for antibiotics for a
viral infection," the report stated.

Ho said both resource allocation and the patient's best interest can be focal
points for conflicts in end-of-life care. For instance, inserting a feeding tube
may keep a patient alive for a while, but it could increase the chances of an
infection.

pjames@pgcitizen.ca

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: The Citizen, File; The Canadian Cancer  Society's Kordyban Lodge
behind the BC Cancer Agency's new cancer  clinic in Prince George starts to take
shape earlier this year. The  resignation of Prince George oncologist Dr. Suresh
Katakkar has  raised questions about cancer treatment both in northern BC and
the  province as a whole.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 28, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

DIRECT COMPLAINTS ABOUT EXPERTS TO THESE AGENCIES

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Open Mind Column; Pg. E6

LENGTH: 307 words


Dear Open Mind: Whom do I contact when I have complaints about a mental health
professional?

Most disciplines of mental health have their own regulatory board or committee
that oversees ethical standards and practices, license renewals, etc. If you
think your treatment provider has violated ethical standards or the law, use the
following list to determine which organization to contact. Illinois residents
should contact the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation at
217-785-0800.

Psychiatrists

State Board of Registration for the Healing Arts, P.O. Box 4, Jefferson City,
Mo. 65102. 573-751-0098

Psychologists

State Committee of Psychologists, P.O. Box 1335, Jefferson City, Mo., 65102.
573-751-0099

Social workers

Advisory Committee for Licensed Clinical Social Workers, P.O. Box 1335,
Jefferson City, Mo. 65102. 573-751-0085

Counselors

Committee for Professional Counselors, P.O. Box 162, Jefferson City, Mo. 65102.
573-751-0020

Therapists

State Committee of Marital and Family Therapists, P.O. Box 1335, Jefferson City,
Mo. 65102. 573-751-0870

If your concerns are about a psychiatrist or psychologist, you may also want to
contact the local psychiatric or psychological association. The state offices
listed above can direct you to the local professional organization. If you
receive your services through the Missouri Department of Mental Health, contact
its Division of Consumer Affairs at P.O. Box 687, Jefferson City, Mo. 65102
(800-364-9687).

The attorney general's office has a consumer protection division at P.O. Box
899, Jefferson City, Mo. 65102 (573-751-3321).

If you are covered by health insurance or a health maintenance organization
(HMO), you may also wish to file a complaint with them.

James E. House II,

Executive Director

Mental Health Association

of Greater St. Louis

314-773-1399

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              353 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                    November 06, 1999 Saturday, ALL EDITIONS

Unhealthy attitude;
 Survey: Many physicians condone fraud

SECTION: EDITORIAL; IN OUR OPINION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 287 words



Most people would be outraged at the suggestion that their doctors committed, or
even condoned, insurance fraud.

Yet a survey published in the American Medical Association's Archives of
Internal Medicine indicates that, under some circumstances, many do.

Asked whether it is ethical to lie to an insurer about a patient's heart
condition in order to get coverage for a bypass operation, 58 percent said it
is.

More than a third of the internists said it would be OK to report a nonexistent
lump in a woman's breast to secure coverage of a mammogram.

(Most drew the line at lying to get coverage of cosmetic surgery. Still, 3
percent thought it proper to invent a nasal defect on behalf of a patient who
wants a nose job.)

Such ethical elasticity is dangerous, since physicians who lie supposedly to
help patients besmirch the credibility of their profession. More often than not,
the physician profits from insurance fraud along with the patient.

Erosion of trust would be a sad loss for doctors and patients alike.

The last thing America's beleaguered health care system needs are shady
practices that unnecessarily drive up costs.

Medicare already is heading for insolvency due, in large part, to billions of
dollars in fraudulent claims each year and rising premiums have priced millions
of Americans out of the health insurance market.

To be sure, the accuracy of the survey is open to debate. Findings were drawn
from a small sample of 169 internists in eight cities who chose to fill out and
return mailed forms.

But if significant numbers of doctors condone fraud in the guise of "patient
advocacy," the ethics units of medical schools and professional organizations
need to take note.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1999 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              354 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                           February 25, 2017 Saturday
                                 Early Edition

Assisted suicide, assisted dying differ

BYLINE: Colette Nantais, The Windsor Star

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 208 words

DATELINE: Windsor


Re: Searching 'along the 401' for a place to die, by Anne Jarvis, Feb. 17.

This article slams Hotel-Dieu hospital for refusing to euthanize a patient. To
be clear, there is a distinct difference between assisted suicide and assisted
dying.

Assisted suicide is providing the means (tools, drugs) to a person who wants to
take his or her own life.

Assisted dying is when a health-care professional injects a lethal solution into
a patient to cause his or her death.

Patients may choose to have assisted death under the current law but healthcare
providers should not be forced against their moral and ethical judgment to
administer the lethal injection.

We need Hotel-Dieu to remain a "safe" hospital where people can receive
palliative care and adequate pain management.

In the Netherlands, Belgium and many other countries that have had legalized
assisted dying in place for years, it is common practice that if a patient
enters a hospital after a certain age, he will never return home.

In addition, health insurance will not cover medications and treatment after a
certain age but will cover assisted death.

We would be naive to think that this will not happen in Canada.

Colette Nantais,

Windsor !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Getty Images; Patients may choose to have assisted death under the
current legislation but health-care providers should not be forced against their
moral and ethical judgment to administer the lethal injection, Windsor resident
Colette Nantais writes.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 Windsor Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 3, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Gay cure' therapies should be made illegal like FGM, says MP

BYLINE: Joseph Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 279 words


A TORY MP is today demanding doctors who practice so-called "gay cure therapies"
be treated like criminals who carry out female genital mutilation.

Mike Freer, MP for Finchley, wants the treatments - the most extreme forms of
which include electric shock therapy or training gay people to feel nauseous if
they have homosexual thoughts - to be outlawed.

In a speech to Parliament he was to demand ministers act to ensure therapists do
not "peddle the myth" that people can be cured of being gay.

While such treatments are not available on the NHS, it is still possible for
people to access them privately.

In January the government launched a voluntary "memorandum of understanding"
saying practitioners should be aware of the ethical issues and the public made
aware of risks. During his speech Mr Freer planned to praise health minister
Jane Ellison for her work outlawing FGM, before adding: "I must ask if she would
have been happy with a memorandum of understanding? Would she have been happy
allowing practitioners to be simply aware to the ethical implications [of FGM]?
I suspect the answer is no."

He added: "It is time to simply say [gay cure therapy] has no medical merit and
can be harmful. It is time to say it is illegal in the UK."

In 2009 the BMC Psychiatry Journal surveyed 1,300 medical professionals and
found 15 per cent had offered some form of such therapy. At the start of the
year NHS staff were told they should not be helping patients access the
therapies. Equalities Minister Nicky Morgan also said last month that they
should be stamped out.

Mr Freer was to add: "Being gay is not a disease. To suggest otherwise is
morally and medically wrong." @JoeWatts_

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Farmers Weekly

                                December 7, 2007

Nod for GM crops in Europe within 10 years

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 250 words


Climate change might benefit UK potato growers

IS IT THE RIGHT TIME TO ADOPT GM?

Q The growth in "ethical food" such as organic and Fair Trade lines might prove
to be a limiting factor in the uptake of GM food by consumers, in the short term
at least. Premium markets are worth about £15bn a year and expected to grow to
£20bn in five years' time, which would outperform the broader grocery market,
said IGD chief economist James Walton.

Some 83% of households bought something organic last year and the Fair Trade
market alone was worth £250m a year.

"Ethics have become mainstream and consumers are more aware of the effects of
their buying decisions. Suppliers have real potential to prosper."

Crops that required little or no processing, such as dairy, eggs, fruit and
vegetables, were most likely to be bought by "ethical shoppers", he added.

Q When asked if it was the right time to grow GMs, 68% of fwi.co.uk users said
"no".

WHAT BENEFITS?

Q Plant traits to allow cropping of marginal land eg, saline resistance, drought
tolerance

Q Reduced chemical inputs and use of more benign products eg, Roundup-ready
crops

Q e_SIhtInclude traits to make crops better able to withstand new pests and
diseases eg, blight resistance, insect resistance (Bt corn)

Q High starch potato crops - potential to use the crop for biofuel

Q GM could turn commodity crops into value-added

Q Build in various health benefits

british potato 2007

Q More conference coverage, including blight concerns, starts in our Arable
section, p55.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2007 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Ethics of Advice

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words


Genetic testing raises some vexing ethical questions, like whether it will cause
unnecessary anxiety or lead to more medical procedures, including abortions.

Now, as the number of tests and the money to be made from them are exploding,
another question is being asked by professionals in the field themselves. Is it
ethical for genetic counselors, who advise patients on whether to undergo
testing, to be paid by the companies that perform the tests?

While it might not always be immediately obvious to patients, some counselors
offering them advice in hospitals and doctors' offices work for the commercial
genetic testing companies, not for the hospitals or doctors themselves.

Critics say the arrangement poses a potential conflict of interest, in that the
company-employed counselors might have an incentive to recommend more testing
than necessary or not to recommend a test offered by a rival laboratory. The
practice, they contend, could undermine trust in the profession just as genetic
counselors are poised to play a growing role in medicine, helping patients sift
through an ever-increasing array of available genetic tests.

''Ultimately, the success of a corporate lab depends on the utilization of their
tests, and therefore, so too does the job security of the genetic counselor,''
Katie Stoll, a genetic counselor at the Madigan Health Care System, a government
medical center in Tacoma, Wash., wrote recently on the DNA Exchange, a Web site
for genetic counselors. Ms. Stoll said she worried that in some cases ''the line
between genetic counselor and sales representative is blurred.''

There are genetic tests for more than 2,500 diseases, up from fewer than 800
diseases in 2001, according to GeneTests, a database supported by the federal
government. UnitedHealth, the big insurer, recently projected that spending on
genetic testing in the United States would grow to as much as $25 billion in
2012, up from $5 billion in 2010.

Some leaders in the genetic counseling profession say that testing companies
have supplied counselors to medical practices for more than 10 years with no
evidence that patients have been harmed.

''I've never heard it being raised as a real issue in the quality of patient
care,'' said MaryAnn W. Campion, director of the master's program in genetic
counseling at Boston University.

Doctors who defend the arrangement say that they cannot afford to hire
counselors on their own because reimbursement for counseling is low.

While Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers often pay for genetic tests, they
are less likely to pay for the counseling sessions, sometimes lasting an hour or
longer, that can precede and follow such testing. Most states do not license
genetic counselors, and it can be hard for a nonlicensed practitioner to obtain
reimbursement.

But testing companies can subsidize the typical $65,000 annual salary of the
genetic counselors from testing revenues.

''The problem is that genetic counseling is a time-consuming, labor-intensive
process that fundamentally is a money loser,'' said Dr. Mark I. Evans, director
of Comprehensive Genetics, a Manhattan practice dealing with high-risk
pregnancies.

While Dr. Evans employs his own counselors, he said the use of company-employed
counselors ''allows patients who would not get access to this information to
have it.''

About 9 percent of the nation's approximately 3,000 genetic counselors now work
for testing laboratories, up from 2 percent in 1990, according to the National
Society of Genetic Counselors. However, the society estimates that only
one-third of those directly counsel patients, with many others advising only
doctors.

The company most known for placing counselors inside hospitals and medical
offices is Genzyme Genetics, which was acquired by LabCorp in 2010 and renamed
Integrated Genetics. Integrated Genetics says it has about 140 counselors
offering services at 200 locations. These counselors deal primarily with
prenatal testing.

Stephen Anderson, a spokesman for LabCorp, said the counseling was part of the
testing service and that counselors were not compensated based on how many tests
were ordered.

''Genetic counselors are not sales people,'' he said ''Our counselors are
trained professionals that are looking to provide appropriate care, period.''

Mr. Anderson said doctors and hospitals using the counselors were not required
to send samples to LabCorp.

Still, some doctors and executives in the testing business say LabCorp needs a
certain volume of testing to justify placing a counselor in a doctor's office.
And the genetic testing industry certainly perceives that those counselors help
bring testing to LabCorp.

Another testing company, Bio-Reference Laboratories, recently started hiring its
own counselors to place in prenatal medical practices. ''You can't compete if
you don't go in and do it,'' said Dr. Marc D. Grodman, chief executive.

Many genetic counselors say there is little risk for patients since genetic
counselors are trained to discuss options with patients but not to make
recommendations. Also, there are guidelines from medical societies as to which
tests are appropriate.

Doctors who use the LabCorp counselors say that the counselors disclose the
relationship to patients and bill patients separately. Also, some doctors say,
they order the tests, not the counselors.

''I order a test because I want to order a test, not because they do,'' said Dr.
Lawrence Platt, director of the Center for Fetal Medicine and Women's Ultrasound
in Los Angeles. He said LabCorp paid rent to the practice for the space occupied
by the counselors.

Still the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, in an opinion
published in 2008, stated that neutral counseling ''may be compromised through
the use of patient education material or counselors that are provided by a
company that might profit from a patient's decision to undergo testing.''

Dr. Richard Fischer, chairman of maternal fetal medicine at Cooper University
Hospital in Camden, N.J., while saying he was pleased over all with the LabCorp
counselors, said that he to resist the company's counselors to offer a test to
all pregnant women that was not recommended by ACOG.

Dr. Cathleen Harris of Scottsdale Perinatal Associates in Arizona said that
after discussions with LabCorp, she opted not to use its counselors ''in part
because we didn't want to have an exclusive agreement with them for all our lab
tests.''

Kara Murphy of Fanwood, N.J., saw a Genzyme counselor after an ultrasound at a
hospital suggested something might be wrong with her fetus. She said she thought
the counselor worked for the hospital.

''Even if she handed me a card that said Genzyme on it, I have no idea what
Genzyme is,'' Ms. Murphy recalled. The counselor discussed numerous testing
options, which Ms. Murphy said would have cost her $2,500 out of pocket, and, in
retrospect, would not have found what was wrong.

She eventually went to Elena Ashkinadze, a genetic counselor at the Robert Wood
Johnson Medical School and president of the Human Genetics Association of New
Jersey. Ms. Ashkinadze, after ordering tests from various labs that cost Ms.
Murphy $600 out of pocket, figured out the rare disease Ms. Murphy's son would
have.

Ms. Ashkinadze said it was not clear if Ms. Murphy had received bad advice from
the Genzyme counselor. But Ms. Ashkinadze said having testing companies provide
such advice could raise suspicions among patients. ''We shouldn't be pawns in
the marketing scheme,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Keegan Murphy was born with a rare genetic disease. His mother,
Kara Murphy, underwent genetic counseling. (B1)
 Kara Murphy, with her husband, Michael, saw a genetic counselor before their
son's birth. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 28, 1987

Law Report: The right to have a baby

BYLINE: By SHIRANIKHA HERBERT, Barrister

LENGTH: 1128 words


Queen's bench Division
 Regina v Ethical Committee of St Mary's Hospital,
 Manchester, ex parte Harriet
 Before Mr Justice Schiemann

 26 October 1987

Where a hospital's ethical committee is set up as an advisory body and a forum
for discussion, rather than a decision making body, the court will not compel
the committee to give advice, or to embark upon an investigation, as to whether
treatment should be given or refused in a particular case.

THE FACTS

The applicant wished to have a child but had difficulty in conceiving. Her
social services department to be allowed to adopt or foster were refused because
of her criminal convictions for running a brothel and soliciting for
prostitution, and her allegedly poor understanding of the role of a foster
parent.

The applicant then sought to be considered for in vitro fertilisation (IVF)
under the National Health Service. In January 1983 she was put on the waiting
list, and in March 1984 a laparoscopy was performed upon her. In July 1984 she
was seen for the first time by the doctor at the IVF unit. In August 1984 her
past convictions were disclosed to a counsellor at the unit.

In December 1984 the doctor saw the applicant again and informed her that it
would not be possible to treat her because of an infection her husband had and
because she had a liver function abnormality.

In March and June 1985 the hospital's ethical committee, which had been
established in the light of the report of the Warnock Committee of Inquiry into
Human Fertilisation and Embroyology (Cmnd 9314), met, and the applicant's case
was probably discussed. Both doctors who were in charge of the IVF unit were on
the committee. The committee emphasised that doctors retained the right to
decide upon treatment vis a vis their clinical judgment.

In September 1985 the applicant and her husband were for the first time informed
of the actual reason for refusal to treat her, namely that adoption agencies had
refused to consider placing children with them.

The applicant sought judicial review of the decision refusing her treatment.

THE DECISION,

Mr Justice Schiemann said that the applicant made no complaint as to the general
policy that couples accepted on the waiting list for IVF must, in the ordinary
course of events, satisfy the general criteria established by adoption societies
in assessing suitability for adoption.

THE CLAIM AGAINST THE COMMITTEE,

There was no statutory duty on anyone to set up the committee and there was no
statutory duty imposed on the committee either to decide or to advise.

The applicant submitted that, once the committee had been asked for advice on
whether treatment should be given to a particular individual, it was obliged
itself to investigate the matter and give advice following such investigation.
The judge rejected that submission. The committee's function was to provide a
forum for discussion among professionals. It was essentially an informal body.
If the committee in a particular case refused to give advice or did not have a
majority view as to what advice should be given, then the courts could not
compel it to give advice or embark upon a particular investigation.

On behalf of the committee it was submitted that judicial review did not lie to
review any advice given by the committee. The judge was doubtful about accepting
that submission in its full breadth. If the committee had advised, for instance,
that the IVF unit should in principle refuse all such treatment to anyone who
was a Jew or coloured, then the courts might well grant a declaration that such
a policy was illegal.

But that was not the situation in the present case. Here the complaint was that
the committee's advice was that the doctor must make up her own mind as to
whether treatment should be given. That advice was unobjectionable.

It was also submitted that the applicant should have beem given an opportunity
to put evidence and submissions before the committee. The judge rejected that
submission. If it was right that the committee was set up to provide a forum for
professionals to talk things over and to provide general guidelines, then the
court should be slow, if indeed it had the power, to force such a committee to
receive representations before it decided not to give advice.

Where, as here, the committee advised the decision taker that it would be proper
for her to reconsider her decision in the light of any new material which the
applicant put before her, there was even less reason for the court to interfere.

THE CLAIM AGAINST THE DOCTOR

The applicant submitted that where a doctor was making a decision removing a
woman from the IVF list, and was taking that decision exclusively or mainly on
social grounds which involved issues of contested fact, then the doctor had a
duty to act fairly.

On behalf of the doctor it was submitted that the doctor/patient relationship
was outside the purview of administrative law. For the purposes of this
judgment, the judge was prepared to assume that the applicant's submission was
correct. But even on that assumption he was not prepared to grant the applicant
relief. There were arguable grounds for criticism of the doctor's decision in
December 1984 not to treat the applicant. That decision was made without first
giving the applicant an opportunity to try and establish that the case was an
extraordinary one in some way, and that therefore she should be accepted for
treatment even though she did not satisfy the general criteria established by
adoption societies in assessing suitability for adoptions.

There were no further arguable grounds for criticism of the doctor's decision
not to inform the applicant until September 1985 of the true reason for the
refusal of treatment. She was misled and was understandably furious that time
went by in what now appeared to have been shadow boxing. However, doctors'
decisions as to whether to give or refuse treatment were not ones which, once
made, rendered the doctors powerless to change their views in the light of new
arguments and new facts.

It was not, and could not be, suggested that no reasonable doctor could have
come to the decision to refuse treatment to the applicant. In those
circumstances there was no reason to grant the relief sought against the doctor.
In consequence there was no need to decide the question whether or not in
principle judicial review would lie in respect of such a decision.

The application was dismissed. Appearances: Mr Louis BlomCooper QC and Mr Edward
Fitzgerald instructed by Hepworth & Halpern, Manchester, for the applicant; Mr
Rodger Bell QC and Mr Bruce Caulfield instructed by the Solicitor North West
Regional Health Authority for the committee.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              359 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     October 11, 2012 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

U-M Health System: Fixing the System: U-M Lecture will Focus on Ethical Reform
of Health Care in U.S

LENGTH: 410  words


New Delhi, Oct. 11 -- Six days before voters head to the polls to vote in the
this year's general election, the University of Michigan will host the president
of the American Medical Association in a lecture dedicated to the divisive
political topic of health care reform.



Jeremy Lazarus, M.D., president of the AMA, will be this year's keynote speaker
at the 17th-annual Waggoner Lecture on Ethics and Values in Medicine, sponsored
by U-M's Department of Psychiatry.

Lazarus, a psychiatrist who has extensive experience studying the ethics of
organized health care, will discuss the topic Oct. 31 at U-M in his presentation
titled, "Fixing Health Care - The Ethical Way". He will deliver his presentation
at 4 p.m. in the Ford Auditorium, University Hospital.

"We face a new set of ethical challenges that are linked to the transformation
of the American health care system," Lazarus says. "Challenges that involve not
just our relationship to each individual patient, but to the larger health care
system. As those on the front lines of care delivery, physicians, nurses and
medical students must ensure that solutions to this country's health care
challenges are ethically grounded."

Lazarus was elected as president of the AMA in June and also is a clinical
professor of psychiatry at the University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine.
During his time with the AMA, he has been one of the chief spokespersons on the
uninsured.

Philip Margolis, M.D., a professor emeritus of psychiatry at U-M and the
lecture's organizer, says Lazarus was the perfect choice to lead this year's
presentation given the upcoming election and his expertise on the hot-button
issue of health care.

"We really wanted someone who could discuss the ethics surrounding the changing
nature of health care in the U.S.," Margolis says. "Dr. Lazarus has spent his
career dedicated to research in this field, and he'll be an especially timely
speaker for this year's lecture."

The Waggoner lectureship is named for the late Raymond Waggoner, M.D., who died
in June 2000 at age 98. He was chair of the U-M Department of Psychiatry for 33
years, from 1937 to 1970.

A noted U-M psychiatrist, medical administrator and government advisor who was
one of the first to see mental illness as both an emotional and physical
problem, Waggoner maintained a strong interest in medical ethics and values
throughout his career. The U-M Department of Psychiatry established the
lectureship in his honor in 1995.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            February 8, 2010 Monday

No easy fix to insurance glitch

BYLINE: Editorials

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 226 words


The glitch in the Massachusetts health care reform law that burdens small
businesses is a byproduct of a cumbersome insurance system based on employment.
It will defy an easy fix.

State law requires all employers to provide health insurance or pay into the
Commonwealth Care Trust Fund if they have 11 "full-time equivalent employees"
determined by hours worked rather than people employed. This financially
penalizes companies that occasionally hire part-timers when business is
thriving, encumbers all small businesses with paperwork, and sets some
businesses up for fines even though they did not intend to violate the law and
may not even be aware that they did.

Representative William "Smitty" Pignatelli has filed a bill calling for the
removal of the word "equivalent" from the law, putting the focus strictly on
full-time workers. The Lenox Democrat acknowledges, however, that this could
create a loophole enabling large businesses to avoid health insurance costs by
hiring part-timers rather than full-time workers.

There is no logic to a health insurance system based on employment as it burdens
ethical businesses, is easily abused by unethical ones, and causes laid off
workers to lose their health insurance as well as their salary. This ridiculous
system, nearly unique in the civilized world, is with us to stay, however,
courtesy of Washington.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            October 28, 2003 Tuesday

Washington roundup

LENGTH: 740 words


Washington roundup

President's council questions biotech's use 'beyond therapy'

By KIM COGHILL  Medical Device Daily Washington Writer  A document exploring the
implications of using biotechnical powers for reasons beyond therapy takes up
controversial issues like the prospect of creating designer babies, and
questions whether such scientific advances are possible and ethical.

Billed as an educational piece, the 310-page ethical inquiry, which also
discusses topics such as mood-altering drugs, was written by President George
Bush's 18-member bioethics council. Chaired by Leon Kass, a professor at the
University of Chicago (Chicago, Illinois), the President's Council on Bioethics
is made up of professors, scientists, theologians, lawyers and humanists.

Titled "Beyond Therapy: Biotechnology and the Pursuit of Happiness," the
document's preface describes it as an inquiry into the potential implications of
using biotechnology beyond therapy in order to try to satisfy deep and familiar
human desires: for better children, superior performance, ageless bodies and
happy souls.

The document concedes that many of the potential uses of biotechnology designed
to satisfy some of those desires are clearly well off in the future;
nevertheless, they are worthy of discussion because of the challenges and
choices they will present.

For example, genetic engineering of desired traits in babies. According to the
report, dreams of fully designed babies based on directed genetic change are -
for now, anyway - pure fantasies.

"There are huge obstacles, both to accurate knowing and to effective doing," the
report said. "One of these obstacles - the reality that these traits are heavily
influenced by environment - will not be overcome by technology."

As technology advances, the authors consider the purpose of biotechnology, i.e.,
is it to give us perfect babies, bigger muscles, rid people of illness and
disease or make us happy?

On the latter, the authors take up the widespread use of mood-altering drugs, or
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as Prozac, Paxil or Zoloft.
The report cites a recent poll that said one in eight Americans use SSRIs,
mostly as treatments for diagnosed illnesses (depression, anxiety).

From an ethical standpoint, the document asks, "Why shouldn't a patient use such
a drug if he feels unfulfilled or steadily blue?"

While there are many positive uses of SSRIs, the document says memory- and
mood-altering drugs pose a fundamental danger to the pursuit of happiness. "In
the process of satisfying our genuine desires for peace of mind, a cheerful
outlook, unclouded self-esteem and intense pleasure, they may impair our
capacity to satisfy the desires that by nature make us happiest," the document
said.

Bill addresses genetic discrimination  The Senate unanimously passed legislation
preventing health insurers and employers from using genetic information to make
discriminatory decisions.

"The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act" was introduced by Sens. Bill
Frist (R-Tennessee), Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Tom Daschle (D-South Dakota), Judd
Gregg (R-New Hampshire), Edward Kennedy (D-Massachusetts) and Mike Enzi
(R-Wyoming).

In a prepared statement, Frist called the legislation a victory for patients,
saying Congress must ensure the public that individual genetic information is
not used to harm them.

"We must protect consumers from the threat that their genetic information may be
used to deny them access to health insurance coverage or to the benefits of
employment," Frist said. "This is a moral responsibility and a practical
necessity. [This legislation] takes that necessary step by protecting
individuals with genetic predisposition toward certain diseases from the threat
of discrimination."

Indeed, Michael Werner, chief of policy at the Biotechnology Industry
Organization (BIO; Washington), saidthat BIO has supported such legislation
since 1996.

"Our view is that all the information that is gleaned and will continue to be
gleaned from genetic information could have an enormously positive impact on
people's lives," Werner said. "We want to make sure that folks take advantage of
those opportunities, and this legislation is designed to help make it happen
because it will remove one of the fears that people have before they try to
access genetic tests."

The House is likely to take up similar legislation sometime this fall, Werner
said.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2003 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 999 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                 March 15, 2005

Ethics earn R&SA spot in top 100 spot

BYLINE: Argus business staff (business@theargus.co.uk)

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 329 words


An insurance company has been named as one of the 100 most ethical companies in
the UK - alongside organic food producers and green energy companies.

Royal & SunAlliance based in Horsham West Sussex has a first-class ethical
record according to the Ethical Company Organisation (ECO).

The group - which produced The Good Shopping Guide - wanted to identify the
companies it believed were most committed to behaving in a socially responsible
way.

Other Sussex companies on the list include Littlehampton-based cosmetics group
The Body Shop and organic food wholesaler Infinity Foods based in Portslade near
Hove.

The list is part of an accreditation scheme run by ECO for companies who can
demonstrate sound policies in a range of areas broadly summarised as "animals
people and the environment".

So far 20 companies have achieved accreditation including Innocent Drinks whose
creative director Dan Germain is speaking at the Sussex Enterprise annual
conference in Brighton today.

A further 80 companies - including others based in Sussex - have now been
invited to apply for accreditation.

William Sankey director of ECO said: "There is a new attitude emerging within a
group of progressive companies determined to act responsibly in everything they
do.

We are delighted with the overall ethical high-standing and opennessof those 20
companies which we have so far accredited and we arelooking forward to working
with this next group of 80, which completethe UK's top 100 ethical companies.

Royal & SunAlliance - famous for its MoreThan brand - topped a giving list
compiled by The Guardian and Business in the Community last November.

The company ploughed more than 8.3 per cent of its pre-tax profits - £1.54
million - back into community-based projects more than any other UK firm.

l To apply for accreditation companies can contact the Ethical Company
Organisation on 0207 229 2115 or info@ethical-company-organisation.org

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


                              363 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                    The Hill

                           February 28, 2006 Tuesday

House GOP calls corruption report corrupt

BYLINE: By Josephine Hearn

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 645 words


The House Republicans' campaign operation is charging that a recently released
Democratic report on Republican corruption violated ethics rules.

The 103-page report, "America for Sale: The Cost of Republican Corruption," was
compiled by the Democratic staff of the House Rules Committee and released by
the panel's ranking Democrat, Rep. Louise Slaughter (N.Y.), last week.

The report reiterates repeats many of Democrats' long-held concerns about
Republicans' actions on healthcare, energy, the environment, homeland security
and Hurricane Katrina.

"It's a political document through and through. The headline is all you need to
know it's a political document," said Ed Patru, a spokesman for the National
Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC). "It's nothing more than Democrats
using official resources to promote political talking points."

House ethics rules prohibit members of Congress from using official resources to
fund campaign activities. Democrats, however, counter that chronicling
Republican ethical abuses is well within the rules.

"It is ... deeply ironic that the NRCC would have the audacity to suggest that a
detailed, fact-based report documenting the collapse of our legislative system
would constitute unethical behavior," Slaughter said in a statement, "while at
the same time, top Republican officials ... have willingly undermined ethical
behavior in our House."

Democrats have focused much of their election-year message on condemning a
"culture of corruption" that they argue pervades Republican-controlled
Washington. More recently, their comments have emphasized the "costs of
corruption," an approach that attempts to link GOP ethical lapses to pocketbook
issues such as prescription-drug coverage and high energy prices.

Republicans have attempted to muddy the water, charging that many Democrats
suffer from similar ethical shortcomings, what they say amounts to a "culture of
hypocrisy." The flap over the corruption report appears to be the latest example
of that ongoing battle.

Ethics experts said it is unlikely that Slaughter's report would be ruled an
ethics violation because it does not contain overt references to campaigns,
calls for fundraising or other red flags.

"I can't recall any ethics ruling that condemned something that vague," said
Brett Kappel, an ethics expert at Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease. "If that were
the standard, then members would hardly be able to talk about the other party at
all."

Slaughter's report was featured recently in @Stake, an e-mail newsletter sent
out by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC).

The report discusses such issues as the surge in the number of registered
lobbyists in Washington - from 10,000 to 34,000 in 10 years - and the
Republicans' infamous K Street Project, through which party leaders sought to
install Republicans in top lobbying jobs. It goes on to address Democrats'
frustration with the workings of the Rules Committee, which routinely blocks
Democratic initiatives, and the ongoing problems with the House ethics
committee, which has not conducted regular business in more than a year.

Yet much of the report deals with concerns about Republicans' handling of such
beyond-the-Beltway issues as the Medicare prescription-drug bill, energy prices,
the environment, homeland security, Hurricane Katrina and defense contractors.

"The culture of corruption has thrived in Republican-controlled Washington
because the Republican Congress has intentionally allowed the processes that
normally hold our politicians accountable to the American people to completely
collapse," the report said.

On the issue of homeland security, Democrats will hear from Stephen Flynn, a
senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, during their caucus meeting
tomorrow. Flynn is working on a book about preparing for natural disasters and
terrorist attacks on American soil.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2006 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 17, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ARTS/ARTIFACTS;
The Cherrys' Trove: Will Ethics Also Be on the Block?

BYLINE: By RITA REIF

SECTION: Section 2;  Page 37;  Column 1;  Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 856 words


THE FIVE-WEEK EXHIBITION OF the Wendell and Dorothy Cherry collection ends today
at the J. B. Speed Museum in Louisville, Ky. -- and the next move part of the
collection makes is raising the hackles of some art world ethicists. Nearly half
of the 88 Old Master, Impressionist, Austrian Expressionist and American
paintings and the palace-quality French and English antiques will be shipped to
Sotheby's in New York to be auctioned next month.

Sotheby's estimates that the sale could reap as much as $27 million, with four
works accounting for half the total: Gustav Klimt's "Lady With a Fan," John
Singer Sargent's "Spanish Dancer" and two lavishly inlaid pieces of French
18th-century furniture -- a desk by Andre Charles Boulle and a commode by a
cabinetmaker to Louis XVI.

The items are from the estate of Wendell Cherry, a founder of Humana, Inc., the
Louisville hospital and health-insurance company, who assembled the collection
with his wife after their marriage in 1977; he died in 1991. The Humana
Foundation, one of the Speed Museum's largest donors, financed the show.

The museum's decision to exhibit the collection a month before it goes on the
block is unusual, and some other curators think it is unethical. They argue that
it makes the museum part of the marketing process: in effect, putting its
imprimatur on objects up for sale, thus possibly adding to their value and
promoting the auction.

The codes of two museum organizations -- the Association of Art Museum Directors
and the American Association of Museums -- say nothing about the issue, but the
former directors of two prominent museums who were asked about it voiced strong
objections.

Sherman Lee, former director of the Cleveland Museum, thinks that exhibiting
objects destined for sale means the museum is attesting to the authenticity of
those works. "I don't think this is an ethical procedure," Mr. Lee says.

J. Carter Brown, director emeritus of the National Gallery of Art in Washington,
says, "Certainly in my time, knowingly to exhibit art before an auction was
something we consistently managed to avoid."

THE SITUATION DOES HAVE precedents. In 1989, 25 paintings from the collection of
John T. Dorrance Jr., an heir to the Campbell Soup fortune, were exhibited at
the Philadelphia Museum of Art two weeks before they were auctioned at
Sotheby's. The auction house sponsored the preview reception at the museum.
Dorrance, a benefactor of the museum -- he donated $5 million two years earlier
-- was its chairman at his death that year.

Some staff members of the Philadelphia museum protested the pre-auction show.

"I don't think there was an uproar," says Robert Montgomery Scott, the
Philadelphia museum's longtime president and chairman of the board. "Merely a
rumble."

"I see the ethical issue," Mr. Scott adds. "But I don't feel that the museum was
misused to benefit the Dorrances or Sotheby's. The public interest was served
because Jack Dorrance's paintings had never been seen together before." The
paintings were shown a week later at Sotheby's.

The organizers of the Cherry exhibition say they think such shows are ethically
permissible under certain circumstances.

"I wrestled with the ethical issue of the museum's separation from the
marketplace," says Peter Morrin, director of the Speed Museum. "I don't think
we've crossed that boundary of inappropriate activity."

Mr. Morrin says he had asked Wendell Cherry in the 1980's for permission to
exhibit his collection. "He always refused," Mr. Morrin says. "He was a very
private man." After Cherry's death, Mr. Morrin renewed the request, and Mrs.
Cherry agreed.

"The show was planned long before Dotty knew anything would go for sale," he
says. The date -- originally for this fall -- was moved up when Mrs. Cherry, an
interior designer, sold her Fifth Avenue cooperative and moved to a smaller
pied-a-terre.

"I don't have rooms for the scale of these pieces of furniture," Mrs. Cherry
says. "It breaks my heart to part with the bureau plat and the chandelier."

The gilded eagle 12-arm chandelier, carved in 1740 to illuminate the dining room
of the fourth Earl of Shaftsbury at St. Giles House in Dorset, England, blazed
with candlelight above the Cherrys' dining table, adding to the shimmer of a
pair of English satinwood commodes on a side wall.

In the spacious living room of their apartment were hung Klimt's portrait from
1917-18, which may bring more than $5 million; Sargent's oil study of a dancer
from 1880-81, which might sell for up to $4 million. Elsewhere in the room the
Cherrys had placed the two lavishly inlaid and gilded pieces of French furniture
-- Boulle's combination table-desk (called a bureau plat) and filing cabinet
with a gilded clock on top, which could fetch $3 million, and the 1770's commode
by Joseph Baumhauer, which could realize as much as $1.5 million.

For Mr. Morrin, other considerations about the Cherry exhibition and auction
prevail. "The meaning of this show to this community is very great," he says.
"This is the most important collection in this part of the world, and it was
created by Kentuckians."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of a pair of 18th-century English commodes from the Cherry
collection. A gilded chandelier carved in 1740 will be auctioned next month. A
combination table-desk and filing cabinet, attributed to Andre Charles Boulle,
circa 1715, could fetch as much as $3 million. (Photographs by Sotheby's)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 27, 2017 Monday

WHO issues ethics guidance to protect rights of TB patients

LENGTH: 219  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Pharmacists Association has issued the following news
release:



 The World Health Organization (WHO) has unveiled its new tuberculosis (TB)
ethics guidance to ensure that countries implementing the "End TB Strategy"
follow ethical standards that safeguard the rights of all those affected. The
guidance emphasizes five key ethical obligations for governments, health
workers, care providers, nongovernmental organizations, researchers, and other
stakeholders, including providing patients with the social support they need to
fulfill their responsibilities and refraining from isolating TB patients before
exhausting all options to enable treatment adherence and only under very
specific conditions. The guidance also calls for stakeholders to enable "key
populations" to access the same standard of care offered to other citizens,
ensure all health workers operate in a safe environment, and rapidly share
evidence from research to inform national and global TB policy updates. "Only
when evidence-based, effective interventions are informed by a sound ethical
framework, and respect for human rights, will we be successful in reaching our
ambitious goals of ending the TB epidemic and achieving universal health
coverage," said Mario Raviglione, MD, director of the WHO Global TB Program.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday

Invasion of children is a worry to old-timers

BYLINE: JO THORNHILL

SECTION: C1; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 570 words


One topic overshadowed the annual general meeting of The Children's Mutual, the
savings and health plan provider, held at London Zoo.

While only 67 people turned up, many of the mutual's 313,000 withprofits members
are concerned about the influx of new investors opening child trust fund
accounts. The society has received more than Pounds 22 million into 185,000 of
these accounts since the Government launched the scheme early last year, and it
expects to attract a further 100,000 accountholders every year.

They will soon outnumber the society's with-profits policyholders, but at the
moment investors in the child trust fund accounts are not offered membership
rights, so they could not have attended or voted at the agm.

If The Children's Mutual was to demutualise, those with money in these accounts
would not receive any windfalls. Only with-profits policyholders would be
eligible.

One anxious member at last weekend's agm asked the board: 'If we allow CTF
accountholders to become members, will we receive compensation for our diluted
membership?' Chief executive David White admitted the society had to come up
with a solution.

'We know the issue has to be addressed, but we are mindful that we have
different categories of members and customers, and whatever decision we arrive
at will affect them in different ways,' he says.

'We must consider the interests of all parties. That said, we are looking at it
very seriously.' Sarah Hughes, 38, a fundraising consultant, and her husband
David, 44, who works in online business development for a travel company,
recently opened an Ethical Baby Bond CTF account with The Children's Mutual for
their three-year-old son Oliver.

Sarah, who is expecting the couple's second child next month, says she picked
the account because of its investment policy.

It mainly backs UK companies that follow key ethical principles.

Managed by insurer CIS, it is the only ethical child trust fund on offer.

Sarah does not understand why the account fails to give Oliver, or her or her
husband, membership of The Children's Mutual.

'I don't see why it cannot allow parents or guardians to represent their
children as members until the child is 18,' she says. 'We are contributing to
the financial health of the company.' Sarah and David, from Tonbridge, Kent, add
to Oliver's account monthly, but say they are keeping an eye on the situation.

She says: 'If decisions made by The Children's Mutual affect the account, I
wouldn't hesitate to switch. I'm happy with it for now, but I will monitor the
situation.' For the first time in the 125-year history of The Children's Mutual,
members were able to vote by post before the agm, though only 386 did.

Though details of executive pay were included in the summary financial
statements sent out to members, no vote was held on remuneration. White promised
that a vote would be held next year.

Last year, White's pay rose 12 per cent to Pounds 355,000, while his pension
grew Pounds 46,000 to Pounds 252,000.

Andreas Whittam Smith, chairman of The Children's Mutual, told members:
'Executive pay can often seem very high, but the financial markets industry is
one of the most successful in the UK economy, which is the primary reason for
high salaries.'

MUTUAL WATCH

IN the latest of Financial Mail's series of reports on the annual general
meetings of mutual building societies and insurers, we visit the agms held by
Royal London and The Children's Mutual.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXCLUDED: THOUGH SARAH AND DAVID HUGHES HAVE OPENED A CHILD TRUST FUND
WITH THE CHILDREN'S MUTUAL FOR THEIR SON OLIVER, THEY ARE STILL NOT CONSIDERED
TO BE MEMBERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Dion Global Solutions Limited

                            December 11, 2015 Friday

Health insurance should be customer driven: IRDAI Chief

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: India


India, Dec. 11 -- T S Vijayan, Chairman, Insurance Regulatory & Development
Authority of India (IRDAI), on Thursday recommended that health insurance should
be driven by the consumer and the community it serves.

"Health insurance is a financing mechanism where in the community pools its
funds to be made available to those who need to pay for their medical expenses,"
he said while addressing the 8th FICCI Health Insurance Conference.

He said that apart from product innovation, affordability of health insurance is
the need of the hour. He suggested that the insurers should work towards
increasing the voluntary customer base, from the current 8 per cent to at least
20-25 per cent of India's population in order to increase affordability. He
emphasized that a balance needs to be created between the expectations of the
consumer and aspirations of the industry.

FICCI health insurance conference has emerged as a public private platform that
has brought together the stakeholders from the government and private sector to
collectively derive solutions for the challenges and barriers faced by the
sector in its growth.

Speaking on the occasion, A Didar Singh, Secretary General, FICCI, in his
welcome address said that continuous stakeholder collaborations, standardization
of processes and transparency in the health insurance sector will lead to
satisfied customers. He mentioned that over the last eight years, FICCI under
the patronage of IRDAI has created a successful PPP platform that has suggested
guidelines which have been notified by the regulator after due diligence to
facilitate ethical and transparent practices.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Dion Global Solutions Limited.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Wire


                  Copyright 2015 Dion Global Solutions Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                          November 16, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

Anti-genetic discrimination bill hits snag; Health Insurance

BYLINE: Ian Macleod, Calgary Herald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N5

LENGTH: 586 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Full Liberal support for proposed national legislation to outlaw genetic
discrimination is in doubt over concern it could intrude on provincial control
of the health insurance industry.

The constitutional worry surfaced Tuesday at the start of committee hearings on
Bill S-201, which would impose criminal liability on employers, insurers and
others who discriminate against individuals based on their genetic makeup and
predisposition to developing diseases and other illnesses.

A broader ethical debate is taking shape, too, over whether limits should be
placed on what people and companies can do with the discoveries, products and
knowledge flowing from the rapid commercialization of genetic science.

Already, there is overwhelming evidence that fears about insurance coverage and
costs are discouraging Canadians from taking advantage of a biotechnology
capable of tremendous potential health benefits, including targeted health care
based on their individual genome.

But health insurers strongly oppose the bill, arguing they have a legitimate
right to material information that helps them accurately calculate financial
risk. While the Liberals are poised to support the bill's provision to amend the
Canadian Human Rights Act to ban discrimination based on genetics against
federally regulated employees, they have yet to embrace the bill's other key
provisions: creation of a genetic non-discrimination act and changes to the
Canada Labour Code to protect employees from being forced to undergo or to
disclose the results of a genetic test, among other protections.

"We're not going to prejudge the outcome of the committee, but we certainly have
questions and concerns around constitutionality that we're going to want
thoroughly probed," Liberal MP Sean Casey, parliamentary secretary to Justice
Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould, told reporters following the hearing. If passed,
the law would bring Canada in line with all other Group of Seven nations and
would be backed with criminal sanctions and maximum fines of $300,000 and $1
million, depending on the severity of the offence.

S-201, a private member's bill authored by Senate Liberal James Cowan, won
Senate approval in May and unanimous support from the Commons in October for the
House justice committee to investigate.

Insurers "now have access to genetic test information, and they understandably
don't want to relinquish that access," Cowan told the committee Tuesday. "They
say that terrible things will happen to insurance in this country if this bill
passes. But there are many countries around the world with prohibitions in place
like the ones in S-201, and the insurance industry continues and does just
fine."

In testimony before a Senate committee this year, insurance industry officials
insisted prospective and existing policy holders must disclose any material
information relevant to assessing the risk of insuring them and setting a
premium reflecting the degree of risk.

It's the same, the industry argues, as people now do when disclosing family
histories regarding cholesterol, hypertension, coronary heart disease, cancer,
diabetes and other conditions with a genetic component.

An industry code already makes a concession when it comes to genetic
information; Canadians cannot be asked to take a genetic test as a condition of
obtaining life insurance. Still, insurers may ask that previous genetic test
results be made available.

imacleod@postmedia.com Twitter.com/imacnewser !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sean Kilpatrick, The Canadian Press; A bill authored by Senate Liberal
James Cowan would impose criminal liability on employers and insurers who
discriminate based on an individual's genetic makeup.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Calgary Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 29, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fairtrade checks in with the hotel business to boost flagging sales of its
cotton

BYLINE: Sarah Butler

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 602 words


The ethical, fashion-conscious consumer may have been the intended ally of the
world's poorest cotton farmers, but the credit crunch and the recession put paid
to that - so Fairtrade is turning its attention to the business world. Fluffy
towels and pristine sheets, hotels and hospitals are being targeted under plans
to increase sales of Fairtrade cotton.

While demand for other Fairtrade products, such as coffee and chocolate, has
continued to grow despite the recession, sales of cotton were hit this year as
fashion stores and shoppers focused on low-price clothing rather than ethical
concerns. Fairtrade cotton sales fell by more than 25 per cent as a result -
after double-digit sales surges for Fairtrade cotton in 2007 and 2008, as
shoppers sought to help farmers in developing countries and retailers competed
on which could be most fashionably green.

Two years ago, for example, Marks & Spencer said that it would use a third of
the world's Fairtrade cotton, Tesco aimed to sell up to 20 million garments
using the fibre and J Sainsbury three million. Farmers expanded as British
retailers promised big orders for the cotton. Now, while Debenhams and some
small brands, such as Gossypium and Pants to Poverty, have continued to report
growth, sales at others, including M&S and Tesco, No 1 and No 2, respectively,
in the list of Fairtrade cotton purchasers, have stalled.

According to Victoria Morton, head of non-food business development at
Fairtrade: "Since the recession hit, retailers and consumers in the UK have
bought less and obviously this has a big impact on farmers, who were given the
impression that there was a huge appetite for Fairtrade cotton in the UK and got
themselves certified. Those farmers may now have to go back to selling cotton
for whatever price they can get, which has an impact on families getting into
debt and many repercussions on health, education, food and water."

Fairtrade says that the retail clothes market remains an important outlet for
its cotton, but it wants to work with businesses less affected by fashion's
whims. It has helped to broker a deal with NHS Supply Chain, which supplies
non-medical products to about 450 NHS trusts, for lab suits, scrubs and T-shirts
made with Fairtrade cotton by Organic Medical Clothing Company. This project
will be expanded if successful.

Andrew Brentnall, at NHS Supply Chain, said: "Sustainability is becoming of
increasing importance to trusts and sourcing Faitrade products is a good way of
bringing it in."

Ms Morton said that Fairtrade was talking to hotels, hoping that British groups
would follow the example of a trial by Hotel Dorint at Amsterdam's Schiphol
Airport, which is setting up entire Fairtrade rooms using towels, bed linen,
toiletries and bathrobes made from the products.

Public services including the Post Office, railway networks and schools have
been approached about using uniforms incorporating Fairtrade cotton, while
discussions are being held with international sports brands.

Efforts are under way to improve the way in which Fairtrade is working with
fashion retailers to improve sales of its cotton. In the past retailers have
complained that the process of certifying every step of their supply chain takes
too long, while their margins are being squeezed by middlemen. Ms Morton said
that Fairtrade was working to make certification for retailers smoother, quicker
and more efficient. Fairtrade has also brought in celebrity cotton ambassadors,
including Lisa Butcher, the former model, to help to raise its cotton's profile.

'Retailers and shoppers have bought less andthis has had an impact'

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A slump in Fairtrade cotton sales hits farmers in all aspects of their
lives
ZAK HUSSEIN / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne)

                             October 3, 2016 Monday

Local briefs 10-2-16

BYLINE: Staff

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Briefs; Pg. 10-2 NEWS LOCAL BRIEFS::1

LENGTH: 562 words


bkm

CHEYENNE

Course will help better explain health insurance marketplace

A free course will be offered from 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Friday for professionals who
routinely offer advice to consumers seeking health insurance through the federal
Health Insurance Marketplace.

The course will be taught in the Cottonwood Room at Laramie County Library, 2200
Pioneer Ave. It will include instruction in legal, ethical, accounting and
enrollment issues often faced by lawyers, accountants, agents, brokers and those
who help advise Wyoming residents through the insurance marketplace.

Tom Glause, commissioner of the Wyoming Department of Insurance, and Steve D.
Easton, a law professor at the University of Wyoming, will be the keynote
speakers.

Other presenters will include experts from the Wyoming Department of Insurance,
Equal Justice Wyoming, the U.S. Small Business Administration and Enroll
Wyoming, one of two federally funded navigator programs in Wyoming that help
consumers understand the marketplace.

Several local agencies, including Wyoming Senior Health Insurance Program,
Wyoming 2-1-1, Wyoming Health Council, Wyoming Institute of Population Health,
Medicaid, United Way of Laramie County, Internal Revenue Service, Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Wyoming and Kid Care CHIP will participate.

To register, contact Monica Jennings at monica.jennings@crmcwyo.org or call
307-432-3640.

Area closure for Snake Fire

in Carbon County lifted

As of 5 p.m. Friday, the area closure for the Snake Fire in southern Carbon
County has been lifted, the U.S. Forest Service announced.

The public may access and use the area with the exception of the Incident
Command Post site off Forest Road 807, which still requires rehabilitation.

Fire staff from the Medicine Bow National Forest will still be present in the
area, as the fire remains in patrol status. It has not been declared fully
contained or controlled (out), but the area as a whole is safe for public use.
Caution is urged in burned areas, as trees may have been weakened by the fire
and could easily fall.

Other nearby fires - the Beaver Creek Fire and the Broadway Fire - are also in
"patrol" status.

The Beaver Creek Fire started June 19 and has burned 38,380 acres about 24 miles
north of Walden, Colorado. It was 75 percent contained as of Thursday. The
Beaver Creek Fire contributed to smoky skies in Cheyenne several times over the
summer, and officials expect coming snowfall to put the fire out.

The Broadway Fire began Aug. 14 and was 40 percent contained as of Thursday.
That fire is located 11 miles south of Encampment and is 2,121 acres in size.

Warning sirens to sound Friday

as part of monthly system test

The Laramie County Emergency Management Agency is once again scheduled to test
the Outdoor Warning Siren system at 10 a.m. Friday in Pine Bluffs and noon
Friday in Cheyenne, Albin and Burns.

The warning sirens will sound a steady signal for one to three minutes on the
first Friday of every month, according to a news release.

The siren signal means "take cover immediately." The sirens are designed to be
heard by people who are outdoors, and they may be heard through open doors and
windows. People inside of buildings might not hear the sirens.

During an actual emergency, once residents have taken shelter, they are advised
to turn radios or televisions to a local broadcast station to get additional
emergency information.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Cheyenne Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The American Banker

A Canadian Credit Union Pushes the Virtual Envelope

                           November 18, 1996, Monday

BY JENNIFER KINGSON BLOOM


Fifty years ago, 25 neighbors in Vancouver, British Columbia, scraped together
22 Canadian dollars to create an association to serve their financial interests.

Some were small-business owners who had to belong to an "employer group" to
qualify for health insurance. Others were women who in those days could not get
bank credit without a husband's or father's signature.

From these modest beginnings grew Canada's largest credit union, with 225,000
members and a reputation as a technology trailblazer. In that tradition,
Vancouver City Savings Credit Union has announced it is establishing Canada's
first "virtual," or branchless, bank.

"We will essentially become the electronic banking arm for VanCity, and we hope
it will become the electronic banking arm for the entire credit union system
across Canada," said Linda C. Crompton, a VanCity vice president who will be
president and chief executive officer of the electronic subsidiary, Citizens
Bank.

The announcement of Citizens Bank - which will serve customers almost
exclusively by telephone, computer, and cable television - was a fresh sally in
the battle between Canada's upstart credit unions and its dominant nationwide
commercial banks.

The banks condescendingly view the credit unions as a blip on the country's
financial radar screen. The credit unions proudly present themselves as a
neighborly alternative to the banks that they describe as arrogant and
profiteering. One credit union - not VanCity - ridicules banks in its
advertising. (See page 10A.)

Credit unions have caught on, particularly in western Canada, where resentment
runs deepest against the Big Five commercial banks, which are Toronto-based. The
credit unions' "good guy" portrayal plays well to the pioneer legacy of British
Columbia, Alberta, and the other western provinces.

The banks are well aware of the credit unions' strategy and admit it strikes a
popular chord.

"In Canada, bank-bashing is a national sport, like hockey," says Joseph A.
Barbera, senior manager of media relations at Bank of Montreal. The credit
unions, he said, "carve out a very strong niche in the West."

Dwarfed in asset size by the nationwide banking monoliths - each would rank in
the United States' top 12 - VanCity prides itself on nimbleness and
technological innovation. CEO Robert D. Quart said his was the first financial
institution in Canada to compound interest daily on savings accounts, to offer
banking by personal computer and interactive cable television, to establish
in-store branches, and to deploy debit cards and stored-value cards.

It was also, he said, the first to offer a set of "ethical" investment funds
that judge companies by the way they treat their employees and the environment.
The Ethical Funds Inc. family of seven funds has accumulated $650 million of
assets.

With Citizens Bank, which aims to open its virtual doors in January, VanCity
hopes to break new ground in more ways than one. "I will be the first Canadian
female bank president," Ms. Crompton said.

VanCity's subsidiary, like some similar ventures in the United States, will be
loosely modeled on First Direct Bank in Leeds, England, a Midland Bank offshoot
that gained renown as that country's first telephone- only bank. In their
research and developement period, VanCity executives visited First Direct as
well as Premier Direct in Dublin (which focuses on remote insurance sales) and
Girobank in London (which is part virtual, part physical).

Citizens Bank plans an idiosyncratic twist on virtual banking, emphasizing the
television and PC.

"The first thing that struck me about First Direct is that they were at that
time not doing anything electronically - their entire business was through the
call center," said Richard Wafer, vice president of information systems at
VanCity.

"I expected they would at least have PC home banking and touch tone," he said.
"It surprised me that they had been so successful without using any technology
approaches and that they didn't have any intention to change."

VanCity's early experiment in banking by television has gotten it a place on the
agendas of conferences worldwide. U.S. community bankers have been particularly
intrigued by the potential of that delivery channel.

But the two-year-old offering has been less well received among VanCity members,
who strongly prefer using the institution's proprietary home banking software on
personal computers. The television product requires users to own a CD-ROM reader
or rent one from the credit union, requiring an audience not on the
technological cutting edge to go to a higher level of sophistication.

"We haven't been very successful in getting the TV across," Mr. Wafer said.
"We've tended to market to people who aren't very technologically aware. The big
box - that's a negative in people's mind. They just don't need another black box
or cable in their room."

On the plus side, Mr. Wafer noted that a new generation of Internet- equipped
televisions is coming to market. "We've got to keep in there with all these
different access methodologies," he said. "That's the philosophy behind the
credit union and behind the new bank, too."

Mr. Quart, the 35-year-old CEO, said 10% of members use television for banking,
a percentage that hasn't changed much for more than a year. "We're not giving up
on TV," he said. "We want to have a product that's working there, and when the
solution becomes more simple, we'll be there."

Remote banking in Canada has evolved more slowly than in the United States. The
major banks were later in installing call centers (behind VanCity's, which
opened in 1985) and in embracing the Internet. Home banking by computer is still
a novelty.

Bank of Montreal, one of the Big Five, recently tried to preempt its
competitors. It launched a virtual banking service Oct. 16 called Mbanx, a
freestanding operation to serve customers in Canada, Mexico, and the United
States by telephone, personal computer, the Internet, or fax - not to mention
mail or courier.

"It's truly the first," said Mr. Barbera of Bank of Montreal. "Many
organizations like VanCity have announced intentions to do things next year, but
that's no fait accompli. The day we announced was the day we were open for
business."

Ms. Crompton and Mr. Quart announced Citizens Bank in September but are still
waiting for final regulatory approval nearly a year after applying.

"We're dealing with a federal regulator located 2,000 miles from here, so there
was an education process and a comfort level that had to be developed," Mr.
Quart said. "We had to get them to see our organization, since it was going to
be the sole shareholder of this bank. We had to build their confidence in our
technology capabilities, our people, our ability to actually pull this off."

Under Canadian law, credit unions may only do business within prescribed
geographic areas. To go national, VanCity has taken a charter for a $600 million
trust company it bought in 1991, Citizens Trust, and applied to convert it into
a banking charter.

Mr. Quart said regulators have given a tacit green light. When final approval
comes, most of the trust company's assets will be transferred to the new bank. A
staff of 60 customer service representatives will spring into action to handle
the calls and electronic transactions.

The bank's business plan calls for it to gain 40,000 to 60,000 customers the
first year and to break even the second year.

Mr. Quart said he hopes for $2 billion (Canadian) of assets - VanCity itself has
$4.7 billion - within five years, an amount he said would barely evoke a yawn
from Canada's banking establishment.

Ms. Crompton said she expects "disenchanted bank customers" to be the first to
sign up.

"Banks are seen as quite exploitative here," she said. "I'm not sure that people
are looking necessarily for service from a credit union, but they do know of our
social mandate and our commitment to service. We don't treat people like an
account number."

Another advantage, she said, would be low overhead relative to the banks'
extensive national branch networks.

"It's our intention to pass along to our customers the cost savings from not
having a branch infrastructure," Ms. Crompton said.

Bankers are undaunted.

"The irony here is that VanCity is actually turning around and applying to
become a bank," said Mr. Barbera. "What is the issue here: If you can't beat
them, join them?"

Linda Thorstad, provincial director of the Canadian Bankers Association for
British Columbia and Alberta, defended the banks, saying they "do a lot in terms
of the community and banking service charges are not out of line.

"But particularly in B.C., the (credit union) movement has been very strong, so
they have made some inroads into the client space."

She said bankers tend to dismiss VanCity's virtual banking enterprise as "more
of a marketing matter."

But Citizens Bank's pitch may resonate among people who remember the days when
banks shunned the immigrants and working classes of western Canada. Women still
are disproportionately represented among the credit union's membership. And
Vancouver's Canby Street still stands as a symbol of how large financial
institutions historically turned their backs.

As Mr. Quart explains it, everything west of Canby Street was considered
carriage trade; everything east was something less. In 1946, when VanCity was
founded, insurance companies were alone in the residential mortgage business.

"Most of those insurance companies were headquartered in eastern Canada," he
said. "They would not lend east of Canby Street, so people who wanted to sell
their homes needed to finance the transactions themselves."

Mr. Quart said area residents still chafe at the pattern of slights. "We want to
be a different kind of bank," he said. "We want people to think of us in that
way."

After the new bank opens, it will take a few months to accept Internet
transactions. Security kinks still have to be smoothed out.

Meanwhile, a Vancouver rival, IWA Community Credit Union, has beaten VanCity to
the Internet punch.

"We are competing against VanCity and the other banks and trust companies in a
very competitive market, and we had to have a system and means of delivering
products quickly," said Robert Parkinson, chief executive of IWA, which
introduced Internet banking Sept. 19.

"Forty percent of Canadian households have a PC; 50% of those have modems; and
half of those are on the Internet," Mr. Parkinson said.

His $160 million-asset credit union, with 12,000 members, opened in 1944 for
woodworking employees. Today it is open to anyone but maintains a strong labor
orientation.

"We are the warm, fuzzy folks," he said. "Even though we're on the Internet,
we're still the warm, fuzzy folks."

VanCity executives said their virtual bank would also offer products such as a
screen phone with smart card reader. In a smart card pilot with Visa, the credit
union lets consumers pay for fast food and other low- dollar items with
stored-value cards; reloadable cards are in the works.

"We hope to have trials of home-based smart card reload in the early part of
next year," Mr. Wafer said, "so people would be able to load them through a
screen phone or a PC."

Not all VanCity's competitors are rushing to top these bold initiatives. Some
Vancouver credit union officials don't believe the market is ready.

A spokesman for Surrey Metro Savings Credit Union, the second- largest in
Canada, said it plans to offer computer banking within a year or two. But he
added, "I don't see us going into virtual banking."

J. Kirk Lawrie, president of Richmond Savings Credit Union, the third-largest,
said, "You can't switch off the traditional and say, 'As of Friday night, that's
it, on Monday we're virtual.'

"The future growth, I believe, is on the virtual side, but it is future growth,
and it's not totally predictable."

Richmond, a suburb of Vancouver, lies below sea level, Mr. Lawrie said.
Historically, he said, banks wouldn't make loans there for fear the investment
could be washed into the Pacific.

Richmond Savings Credit Union has 73,000 members and $1.7 billion of assets.

"We work on developing customers' total financial picture, as opposed to being
cherry-picked and having people treat you as their second or third choice," Mr.
Lawrie said. "If you look at the typical credit union, the average account would
be $3,000, $5,000. VanCity is nowhere near our $25,000."

Mr. Quart said VanCity is the second-largest credit union in the world, behind
only Navy Federal of the United States. Unlike U.S. credit unions, those in
Canada pay taxes and, more often than not, compete directly with one another.

"It's a healthy competitive environment in which everyone agrees that it's
better for the public to select one of the credit unions than a bank," said
Mervin Zabinsky, director of payment and information services for Credit Union
Central of British Columbia, a trade association.

Credit Union Central tries to propagate new ideas among credit unions and their
members, including remote banking. "Our plan is to spread the PC product that
VanCity innovated to all the credit unions in B.C.," Mr. Zabinsky said.

Kevin Finnegan, an analyst at Vancouver-based Pacific International Securities
Inc., said the larger credit unions look and behave like banks but lack a
certain stigma.

"VanCity and Surrey Metro have jumped out and become urbanized banks, even
though they don't like to be called banks," he said. "In effect, they act like
the banks but pride themselves on being more user- friendly, more customer
friendly, less profit-oriented.

"In Vancouver, they've gotten so big that they're stepping on each other's
toes."

SECTION: FUTUREBANKING; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 2320 words

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: quart, Crompton, photos

                      Copyright 1996 American Banker, Inc.


                              372 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Energy News

                     February 19, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Paul Gennaro, AECOM Senior Vice President and Chief Communications Officer,
Joins Advisory Board of Emory University's Center for Ethics

LENGTH: 350  words


New Delhi, Feb. 19 -- AECOM Technology Corporation, a leading provider of
professional technical and management support services for public and private
clients in more than 140 countries around the world, announced today that Paul
J. Gennaro, senior vice president and chief communications officer, has joined
the advisory board of Emory University's Center for Ethics.



As an international leader in the exploration of ethics, the center is dedicated
to exploring how ethical issues underlie the decisions that shape minds, lives
and society. The center is committed to inspiring and advancing scholarship and
education in ethics, igniting the moral imagination of leaders in all walks of
life, and fostering lives of moral meaning and ethical engagement.

"Paul brings strong corporate expertise in advancing ethical communications to
the board," says Dr. Paul Root Wolpe, director of the Emory Center for Ethics.
"Working with Paul and AECOM will provide an excellent, new vantage point for
the Center for Ethics - making our board even stronger than it already is."

As a member of the advisory board, Gennaro will partner with center personnel
and provide insight to the university by leveraging his global experience at
AECOM, which is recognized as "One of the World's Most Ethical Companies" by the
Ethisphere Institute.

"I am truly honored to join the advisory board for the Emory University Center
for Ethics," said Gennaro. "I look forward to interfacing with center staff and
members of the advisory board on the collective need for leaders in business,
government and academia to advance dialogues and actions in support of ethical
cultures and practices."

Gennaro also serves as the chairman of the Ethisphere Institute's Communications
Advisory Board, where AECOM is partnering with Aflac, the Arthur W. Page
Society, Dartmouth University, Edelman, Ford Motor Company, General Electric,
the Panama Canal Authority and Waste Management Inc., to elevate the
conversation around global best practices in internal and external
communications related to the advancement of ethical business cultures.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     November 3, 2015 Tuesday 11:00 AM GMT

Tory MP calls for 'gay cure therapies' to be outlawed

BYLINE: Joseph Watts

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 356 words


A Tory MP is today demanding doctors who practice so-called "gay cure therapies"
be treated like criminals who carry out female genital mutilation.

Mike Freer wants treatments - the most extreme forms of which include electric
shock therapy or training gay people to feel nauseous if they have homosexual
thoughts - to be outlawed.

In a speech to Parliament he was to demand ministers act to ensure therapists do
not "peddle the myth" that people can be cured of being gay.

While such treatments are not available on the NHS, it is still possible for
people to access a range of therapies privately.

In January the government launched a voluntary "memorandum of understanding"
saying practitioners should be aware of the ethical issues and the public made
aware of risks.

During his speech Mr Freer planned to praise health minister Jane Ellison for
her work outlawing FGM, before adding: "I must ask if she would have been happy
with a memorandum of understanding?

"Would she have been happy allowing practitioners to be simply aware to the
ethical implications [of FGM]? I suspect the answer is no."

He added: "It is time to simply say [gay cure therapy] has no medical merit and
can be harmful. It is time to say it is illegal in the UK."

Recent YouGov polling showed one in ten health and social care staff had
witnessed colleagues express a belief that people can be 'cured' of being gay.

In 2009 the BMC Psychiatry Journal surveyed 1300 medical professionals and found
15 per cent had offered some form of therapy.

Read more

Tory candidate Mike Freer: 'Labour canvassers are telling Orthodox

Tory MP Mike Freer calls police 'daft' and protesters

At the start of the year NHS staff were told they should not be helping patients
access such therapies.

Equalities Minister Nicky Morgan also said last month that they should be
stamped out.

Mr Freer was to add: "Being gay is not a disease. Being gay is not an illness.

"It is not something that I or any other gay man or woman can be cured of. To
suggest otherwise is not just demeaning. It is morally and medically wrong."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             March 23, 1979 Friday

Medical care

BYLINE: Titus Owolabi; GAM

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: Toronto ON


I was amazed at the double-think of your editorial, The Health of the
 Plans (March 16): legislate all physicians into the plan indirectly and,
 presto, all ills are cured!
    The conclusion that universal availability of good medical care is
 unattainable if physicians are allowed to opt out could not be more
 incorrect. Furthermore, the practice of physicians billing patients
 directly does not necessarily result in financial hardships for
 patients.

Opted-out physicians (I am speaking as one) are under the strict
 Ontario Medical Association guidelines of ethical billing.

In well over one-third of the patients, Ontario Health Insurance Plan
 cheques are accepted (when and if the patients receive them) as full
 payment for services rendered.

If, as your editorial suggests, OHIP payments were withheld from those
 patients whose doctors are out of the plan, fewer patients will undoubtly
 go to such doctors; some would nonetheless. What then becomes of the free
 universality of medal care for people who choose to see opted-out
 physicians? Physicians who are in the plan will have to carry a heavier
 patient load than they now do. What effect will that have on the quality
 of medical care and convenience for the public?
    The problem is that politicians have oversold free medical care to the
 public. Universality we must continue to have but free it won't be. It
 will be funded by the resources of the province directly or indirectly
 through taxation or with after-tax dollars. The alternative is a system
 that delivers less quality for all or uneven quality within our society.
 Surely that is not acceptable.

Titus Owolabi, MD, FRCS.(C), FACOG
 Toronto

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1979 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2017 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved
                              GlobalData - Events

                               February 14, 2017

                             Alfresa Holdings Corp

                          1-1-3, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku
                                 Tokyo 100-0004
                                     Japan

* * * * * * * * * * EVENTS * * * * * * * * * *


Alfresa Reports Revenue Of JPY2.4 Trillion In Fiscal 2012

   May 09, 2013

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY2.4
trillion in fiscal 2013 compared to JPY2.3 trillion in fiscal 2012. Net income
was JPY20.8 billion, or JPY389.91 per share, in fiscal 2013, compared to JPY6.6
billion, or JPY128.95 per share, in fiscal 2012.


Alfresa Reports Revenue Of JPY1.8 Trillion For Nine Months Ended December 31,
2012

   Feb 05, 2013

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY1.81
trillion for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 compared to JPY1.77
trillion for the nine months ended December 31, 2011. Net income was JPY17.9
billion, or JPY341.08 per share, for the nine months ended December 31, 2012,
compared to JPY5.5 billion, or JPY107.20 per share, for the nine months ended
December 31, 2011.


Alfresa Reports Revenue Of JPY1.16 Trillion In H1 Fiscal 2013

   Nov 05, 2012

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported net sales of JPY1.16 trillion
for the six months ended September 30, 2012 compared to JPY1.1 trillion for the
six months ended September 30, 2011. Net income was JPY6 billion, or JPY117.65
per share, for the six months ended September 30, 2012, compared to JPY3.9
billion, or JPY76.20 per share, for the six months ended September 30,
2011.Qualitative Information on Quarterly Financial Results(1) Qualitative
information on consolidated operating results During the second quarter under
review (April 1 â[#x20ac]" September 30, 2012), the economic outlook for Japan
remained uncertain with debt problems in some European countries and the
prolonged high yen. In the ethical pharmaceutical market, while activities were
stepped up for further market penetration of pharmaceuticals for
lifestyle-related diseases and agents affecting the central nervous system, the
National Health Insurance drug price standards were reduced by an average of
6.0% with the revision of NHI medical service fees this spring, and the use of
generic drugs was promoted. As a result, the market grew 2.6% year-on-year
(estimated by CRECON Research & Consulting Inc.). The Alfresa Group are
continuing to work toward achieving the priority targets under 10-12 Medium-term
Management Plan Advancement and Expansion--Next Stage which was launched in
April 2010, in the plan's final year. This fiscal year in particular, the Group
is actively working on pharmaceuticals distribution reforms based on the urgent
proposals of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare's Council for
Improvement of the Distribution of Ethical Drugs. On July 17, 2012, Alfresa
Holdings Corporation and Tokiwa Yakuhin Co., Ltd. (head office: Ube, Yamaguchi
Prefecture), which is engaged in the wholesaling of ethical pharmaceuticals, OTC
drugs and medical devices/equipment in the Chugoku area centered around
Yamaguchi Prefecture and in the Northern Kyushu area, concluded a stock exchange
agreement whereby Tokiwa Yakuhin Co., Ltd. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Alfresa Holdings Corporation effective October 1, 2012 to strengthen the
functions of both companies and make mutual use of their respective operating
resources. On July 17, 2012, an agreement was also reached to make Kowa
Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (head office: Koriyama, Fukushima PrefectureGroup's
voting rights ratio: 51.0%), a consolidated subsidiary of Alfresa Holdings
Corporation, which is engaged in the ethical pharmaceuticals wholesaling
business, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alfresa Holdings Corporation through a
stock exchange effective October 1, 2012 to enhance the agility of Group
administration and further strengthen Group management. Also in August 2012,
wholly-owned subsidiaries RYUYAKU CO., LTD. (head office: Urasoe, Okinawa
Prefecture) and Alfresa Healthcare Corporation (head office: Chuo-ku, Tokyo)
concluded an agreement whereby the self-medication products wholesaling business
of RYUYAKU CO., LTD. was transferred to Alfresa Healthcare Corporation effective
October 1, 2012 to consolidate the self-medication products wholesaling business
in the Alfresa Group, in order to further strengthen and improve the efficiency
of this business, and enhance customer satisfaction. In the second quarter under
review, while the Group worked to sell products at appropriate prices in the
ethical pharmaceuticals wholesaling business, an extraordinary loss of Â¥689
million associated with a voluntary retirement program at a wholly-owned
subsidiary Alfresa Healthcare Corporation, which is engaged in the
self-medication products wholesaling business, was posted and an extraordinary
loss of Â¥779 million was posted from the full amortization of goodwill related
to the self-medication products wholesaling business. As a result, the Alfresa
Group posted net sales of Â¥1,157,776 million (up 1.0% from the same period of
the previous year), operating income of Â¥11,254 million (up 198.7%), ordinary
profit of Â¥15,560 million (up 88.3%), and net income of Â¥6,025 million (up
54.4%). An outline of performance by business segment is as follows. Ethical
Pharmaceuticals Wholesaling Business In the ethical pharmaceuticals wholesaling
business, while advancing efforts in particular toward pharmaceuticals
distribution reforms, the Alfresa Group continued working to reduce SG&A
expenses ratio. In May 2012, Alfresa Corporation launched operations at the
Aichi Distribution Center (Ichinomiya, Aichi Prefecture), consolidating that
company's distribution centers in the Tokai region, securing sufficient storage
volume, enhancing the product assortment function, and striving to meet customer
needs through safe and reliable pharmaceuticals distribution and to advance
low-cost operations. Furthermore, to respond to the strict temperature control
required for the transportation of antibody drugs and biopharmaceuticals, fields
where distribution volume is expected to increase in the future, Alfresa
Corporation commercialized advanced temperature control distribution, which can
maintain a fixed temperature over a long period of time, with such targets as
investigational drugs and specialty drugs. For this business, Alfresa
Corporation concluded business alliances agreements concerning the distribution
business with Moroo Co., Ltd. (Head office: Chuo-ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido) for the
Hokkaido area and with TOMITA Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Head office: Chuo-ku,
Kumamoto, Kumamoto Prefecture) for the Kyushu area, respectively, and will
develop the business nationwide utilizing Alfresa Group companies in other
areas. In the second quarter under review, net sales amounted to Â¥1,046,023
million and operating income came to Â¥12,484 million. Net sales included
inter-segment sales of Â¥34 million. Self-medication Products Wholesaling
Business In the self-medication products wholesaling business, as a result of
the flat OTC drugs market, a decline of the gross profit margin, and the effects
of the systems integration and operating processes unification from business
consolidation last fiscal year, in the second quarter under review, net sales
amounted to Â¥103,320 million with an operating loss of Â¥1,892 million. Net
sales included inter segment sales of Â¥228 million. Manufacturing Business In
the manufacturing business, while ethical pharmaceuticals were affected by the
NHI drug price revision this spring, contract manufacturing of pharmaceuticals
and other products held steady. In the second quarter under review, net sales
amounted to Â¥13,019 million (up 1.6% from the same period of the previous year)
and operating income came to Â¥483 million (up 118.2%). Net sales included
inter-segment sales of Â¥4,323 million (up 1.3%). From the current consolidated
fiscal year, with the rising position of the self-medication products
wholesaling business from the reorganization of that business, the business
management classificationhas been revised, so the previous wholesaling business
is now divided and reported as the ethical pharmaceuticals wholesaling business
and the self-medication products wholesaling business. For year-on-year
comparisons using the previous business segment classification, refer to 3.
Quarterly Consolidated Financial Statements, (6) Segment information, etc.


Alfresa Reports Revenue Of JPY587.5 Billion In Q1 Fiscal 2013

   Aug 03, 2012

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported net sales of JPY587.5 billion
in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared to JPY573 billion in the same
period of fiscal 2012. Net income was JPY4.2 billion, or JPY82.78 per share, in
the first quarter of fiscal 2013, compared to JPY1.8 billion, or JPY35.77 per
share, in the same period of fiscal 2012.Alfresa is a Japan-based holding
company. The company operates in three business segments. The pharmaceutical
wholesale segment is engaged in the wholesale of medical products, test
reagents, general drugs and medical equipment and materials, as well as the
supply processing and distribution business. The pharmaceutical manufacture
segment is engaged in the manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals, test
reagents, medical equipment and implements, as well as pharmaceutical powders.
The others segment is engaged in the transportation business, the warehousing
business, the insurance agency business, the manpower dispatching business, the
real estate management business, the information system business, the sale of
miscellaneous goods and stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the import and
sale of pharmaceutical powders, as well as the operation of pharmacies, among
others.


Alfresa Reports Revenue Of JPY2.33 Trillion In Fiscal 2012

   May 09, 2012

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported net sales of JPY2.33Trillion
in fiscal 2012 compared to JPY2.2 trillion in fiscal 2011. Net income was JPY6.6
billion, or JPY128.95 per share, in fiscal 2012, compared to JPY6.59 billion, or
JPY129.69 per share, in fiscal 2011. Selling, general and administrative
expenses were JPY134.7 billion in fiscal 2012 compared to JPY133.8 billion in
fiscal 2011.Alfresa is a Japan-based holding company. The company operates in
three business segments. The pharmaceutical wholesale segment is engaged in the
wholesale of medical products, test reagents, general drugs and medical
equipment and materials, as well as the supply processing and distribution
business. The pharmaceutical manufacture segment is engaged in the manufacture
and sale of pharmaceuticals, test reagents, medical equipment and implements, as
well as pharmaceutical powders. The others segment is engaged in the
transportation business, the warehousing business, the insurance agency
business, the manpower dispatching business, the real estate management
business, the information system business, the sale of miscellaneous goods and
stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the import and sale of pharmaceutical
powders, as well as the operation of pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Reports Revenue Of JPY1.8 Trillion For Nine Months Ended December 31,
2011

   Feb 03, 2012

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY1.8
trillion for the nine months ended December 31, 2011 compared to JPY1.6 trillion
for the nine months ended December 31, 2010. Net income was JPY5.5 billion, or
JPY107.20 per share, for the nine months ended December 31, 2011, compared to
JPY10 billion, or JPY197.44 per share, for the nine months ended December 31,
2010.Selling, general and administrative expenses were JPY100.9 billion for the
nine months ended December 31, 2011 compared to JPY99.7 billion for the nine
months ended December 31, 2010.Alfresa is a Japan-based holding company. The
company operates in three business segments. The pharmaceutical wholesale
segment is engaged in the wholesale of medical products, test reagents, general
drugs and medical equipment and materials, as well as the supply processing and
distribution business. The pharmaceutical manufacture segment is engaged in the
manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals, test reagents, medical equipment and
implements, as well as pharmaceutical powders. The others segment is engaged in
the transportation business, the warehousing business, the insurance agency
business, the manpower dispatching business, the real estate management
business, the information system business, the sale of miscellaneous goods and
stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the import and sale of pharmaceutical
powders, as well as the operation of pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Reports Revenue Of JPY1.15 Trillion In H1 Fiscal 2012

   Nov 04, 2011

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY1.15
trillion for the six months ended September 30, 2011 compared to JPY1 trillion
for the six months ended September 30, 2010. Net income was JPY3.9 billion, or
JPY76.20 per share, for the six months ended September 30, 2011, compared to
JPY8.3 billion, or JPY165.05 per share, for the six months ended September 30,
2010.Selling, general and administrative expenses were JPY67.2 billion for the
six months ended September 30, 2011 compared to JPY64.7 billion for the six
months ended September 30, 2010.Alfresa is a Japan-based holding company. The
company operates in three business segments. The pharmaceutical wholesale
segment is engaged in the wholesale of medical products, test reagents, general
drugs and medical equipment and materials, as well as the supply processing and
distribution business. The pharmaceutical manufacture segment is engaged in the
manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals, test reagents, medical equipment and
implements, as well as pharmaceutical powders. The others segment is engaged in
the transportation business, the warehousing business, the insurance agency
business, the manpower dispatching business, the real estate management
business, the information system business, the sale of miscellaneous goods and
stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the import and sale of pharmaceutical
powders, as well as the operation of pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Reports Revenue Of JPY573 Billion In Q1 Fiscal 2012

   Aug 04, 2011

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported net sales of JPY573 billion
in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to JPY529 billion in the same
period of fiscal 2011. Net income was JPY1.8 billion, or JPY35.77 per share, in
the first quarter of fiscal 2012, compared to JPY5 billion, or JPY100.21 per
share, in the same period of fiscal 2011.Selling, general and administrative
expenses were JPY33.2 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to
JPY32.4 billion in the same period of fiscal 2011.Alfresa is a Japan-based
holding company. The company operates in three business segments. The
pharmaceutical wholesale segment is engaged in the wholesale of medical
products, test reagents, general drugs and medical equipment and materials, as
well as the supply processing and distribution business. The pharmaceutical
manufacture segment is engaged in the manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals,
test reagents, medical equipment and implements, as well as pharmaceutical
powders. The others segment is engaged in the transportation business, the
warehousing business, the insurance agency business, the manpower dispatching
business, the real estate management business, the information system business,
the sale of miscellaneous goods and stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the
import and sale of pharmaceutical powders, as well as the operation of
pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Reports Net Sales Of JPY2.2 Trillion For Fiscal 2011

   May 10, 2011

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY2.2
trillion for the year ended March 31, 2011 compared to JPY2.1 trillion for the
same period of 2010. Net income was JPY6.6 billion, or JPY129.69 per share, for
the year ended March 31, 2011, compared to JPY10.5 billion, or JPY227.20 per
share, for the same period of 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses
were JPY133.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2011 compared to JPY128.8
billion for the same period of 2010.Alfresa is a Japan-based holding company.
The company operates in three business segments. The pharmaceutical wholesale
segment is engaged in the wholesale of medical products, test reagents, general
drugs and medical equipment and materials, as well as the supply processing and
distribution business. The pharmaceutical manufacture segment is engaged in the
manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals, test reagents, medical equipment and
implements, as well as pharmaceutical powders.The others segment is engaged in
the transportation business, the warehousing business, the insurance agency
business, the manpower dispatching business, the real estate management
business, the information system business, the sale of miscellaneous goods and
stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the import and sale of pharmaceutical
powders, as well as the operation of pharmacies, among others.


Conclusion Of Basic Agreement For Comprehensive Business Ties Among Liaoning
Chengda, ITOCHU, And Alfresa Holdings

   Mar 10, 2011

   Liaoning Chengda Co., Ltd. (Liaoning Chengda), ITOCHU Corporation, and
Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) concluded a basic agreement for
comprehensive business ties (the agreement). Under the agreement, the three
companies will set up a promotion committee and will consider specific ideas,
such as forming a capital alliance and exchanging personnel. Retail areaITOCHU
and Alfresa will support and give advice to CDFY Pharmacy Chain Investment Co.,
Ltd. (CDFY), a pharmacy chain and drug distribution subsidiary of Liaoning
Chengda, for the advancement of its pharmacy operation and logistics. The two
companies also aim to support strengthening CDFY by enhancing the supply of
products, especially Japanese products through REMEJE PHARMACEUTICALS (CHINA)
CO., LTD (REMEJE), a joint venture of ITOCHU and Alfresa. CDFY reportedly is
operating one of the largest pharmacy chain in China, with 780 pharmacy stores,
and is aiming to expand their stores to become a No.1 pharmacy chain in China in
the near future. Distribution and wholesale Basing on the pharmacy chain and
drug wholesale and logistics business of CDFY, the three companies will consider
creating and developing new business, by establishing intermediate drug
distribution as a social infrastructure. Other Paying attention to the new
healthcare reform that the Chinese government is carrying outthe three companies
will jointly study and discuss about the possibility of creating new business
opportunities, primarily in the medicine and healthcare area. The three
companies agreed on establishing comprehensive business ties to contribute to
improving healthcare in China with the strengths and experience of each company.
Liaoning Chengda is a conglomerate including CDFY, a pharmacy chain in the
northeastern part of China, as a subsidiary. CDFY became the first pharmacy
chain to be certified as 'Chimei-Sho-hyo' (National Brand) by the Chinese
government in October last year. It has received high acclaim as a reliable and
renowned corporate brand in China, operating pharmacy chain business and drug
wholesale and logistics business. ITOCHU considers the consumer-related sector
as one of the major source of revenues with a focus on Asia, especially China.
Through comprehensive business ties, ITOCHU will introduce Japanese products
with high added value with security and safety, especially in drugs and
healthcare products. Alfresa has established efficient and high value-added drug
distribution with traceability in Japan. The company will aim to develop drug
distribution business in China by using its experience and expertise.


Alfresa Reports Net Sales Of JPY1.63 Trillion For Nine Months Ended December 31,
2011

   Feb 04, 2011

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY1.63
trillion for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 compared to JPY1.57
trillion for the same period of 2009. Net income was JPY10 billion, or JPY197.44
per share, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010, compared to JPY7.3
billion, or JPY163.29 per share, for the same period of 2009.Selling, general
and administrative expenses were JPY99.7 billion for the nine months ended
December 31, 2010 compared to JPY97 billion for the same period of 2009.Alfresa
is a Japan-based holding company. The company operates in three business
segments. The pharmaceutical wholesale segment is engaged in the wholesale of
medical products, test reagents, general drugs and medical equipment and
materials, as well as the supply processing and distribution business. The
pharmaceutical manufacture segment is engaged in the manufacture and sale of
pharmaceuticals, test reagents, medical equipment and implements, as well as
pharmaceutical powders. The others segment is engaged in the transportation
business, the warehousing business, the insurance agency business, the manpower
dispatching business, the real estate management business, the information
system business, the sale of miscellaneous goods and stamps, the rental of
welfare equipment, the import and sale of pharmaceutical powders, as well as the
operation of pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Reports Net Sales Of JPY1.05 Trillion For H1 Fiscal 2011

   Nov 04, 2010

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY1.05
trillion for the six months ended September 30, 2010 compared to JPY1.01
trillion for the same period of 2009. Net income was JPY8.3 billion, or
JPY165.05 per share, for the six months ended September 30, 2010, compared to
JPY3.8 billion, or JPY89.11 per share, for the same period of 2009.Selling,
general and administrative expenses were JPY64.7 billion for the six months
ended September 30, 2010 compared to JPY64.5 billion for the same period of
2009.Alfresa is a Japan-based holding company. The company operates in three
business segments. The pharmaceutical wholesale segment is engaged in the
wholesale of medical products, test reagents, general drugs and medical
equipment and materials, as well as the supply processing and distribution
business. The pharmaceutical manufacture segment is engaged in the manufacture
and sale of pharmaceuticals, test reagents, medical equipment and implements, as
well as pharmaceutical powders. The others segment is engaged in the
transportation business, the warehousing business, the insurance agency
business, the manpower dispatching business, the real estate management
business, the information system business, the sale of miscellaneous goods and
stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the import and sale of pharmaceutical
powders, as well as the operation of pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Reports Net Sales Of JPY523 Billion For Q1 Fiscal 2011

   Aug 04, 2010

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY529 billion
for the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to JPY507.3 billion for the
same period of 2009. Net income was JPY5.05 billion, or JPY100.21 per share, for
the three months ended June 30, 2010, compared to JPY1.5 billion, or JPY36.33
per share, for the same period of 2009.Selling, general and administrative
expenses were JPY32.4 billion for the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared
to JPY32.2 billion for the same period of 2009.Alfresa is a Japan-based holding
company. The company operates in three business segments. The pharmaceutical
wholesale segment is engaged in the wholesale of medical products, test
reagents, general drugs and medical equipment and materials, as well as the
supply processing and distribution business. The pharmaceutical manufacture
segment is engaged in the manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals, test
reagents, medical equipment and implements, as well as pharmaceutical powders.
The others segment is engaged in the transportation business, the warehousing
business, the insurance agency business, the manpower dispatching business, the
real estate management business, the information system business, the sale of
miscellaneous goods and stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the import and
sale of pharmaceutical powders, as well as the operation of pharmacies, among
others.


Alfresa Reports Net Sales Of JPY2.1 Trillion For Fiscal 2010

   May 11, 2010

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY2.05
trillion for the year ended March 31, 2010 compared to JPY1.9 trillion for the
same period of 2009. Net income was JPY10.5 billion, or JPY227.20 per share, for
the year ended March 31, 2010, compared to JPY5.6 billion, or JPY133.28 per
share, for the same period of 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses
were JPY128.8 billion for the year ended March 31, 2010 compared to JPY130.1
billion for the same period of 2009Alfresa is a Japan-based holding company. The
company operates in three business segments. The pharmaceutical wholesale
segment is engaged in the wholesale of medical products, test reagents, general
drugs and medical equipment and materials, as well as the supply processing and
distribution business. The pharmaceutical manufacture segment is engaged in the
manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals, test reagents, medical equipment and
implements, as well as pharmaceutical powders.The others segment is engaged in
the transportation business, the warehousing business, the insurance agency
business, the manpower dispatching business, the real estate management
business, the information system business, the sale of miscellaneous goods and
stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the import and sale of pharmaceutical
powders, as well as the operation of pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Reports Net Sales Of JPY1.6 Trillion For Nine Months Ended December 31,
2009

   Feb 04, 2010

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY1.6
trillion for the nine months ended December 31, 2009, compared to JPY1.5
trillion for the same period of 2008. Net income was JPY7.3 billion, or
JPY163.29 per share, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009, compared to
JPY7.1 billion, or JPY170.14 per share, for the same period of 2008.Selling,
general and administrative expenses were JPY96.9 billion for the nine months
ended December 31, 2009 compared to JPY99 billion for the same period of
2008.Alfresa is a Japan-based holding company. The company operates in three
business segments. The pharmaceutical wholesale segment is engaged in the
wholesale of medical products, test reagents, general drugs and medical
equipment and materials, as well as the supply processing and distribution
business. The pharmaceutical manufacture segment is engaged in the manufacture
and sale of pharmaceuticals, test reagents, medical equipment and implements, as
well as pharmaceutical powders. The others segment is engaged in the
transportation business, the warehousing business, the insurance agency
business, the manpower dispatching business, the real estate management
business, the information system business, the sale of miscellaneous goods and
stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the import and sale of pharmaceutical
powders, as well as the operation of pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Reports Net Sales Of JPY1 Trillion For H1 Fiscal 2010

   Nov 04, 2009

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY1 trillion
for the six months ended September 30, 2009, compared to JPY947.2 billion for
the same period of 2008. Net income was JPY3.8 billion, or JPY89.11 per share,
for the six months ended September 30, 2009, compared to JPY4.8 billion, or
JPY115.92 per share, for the same period of 2008.Selling, general and
administrative expenses were JPY64.5 billion for the six months ended September
30, 2009 compared to JPY65 billion for the same period of 2008.Alfresa is a
Japan-based holding company. The company operates in three business segments.
The pharmaceutical wholesale segment is engaged in the wholesale of medical
products, test reagents, general drugs and medical equipment and materials, as
well as the supply processing and distribution business. The pharmaceutical
manufacture segment is engaged in the manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals,
test reagents, medical equipment and implements, as well as pharmaceutical
powders. The others segment is engaged in the transportation business, the
warehousing business, the insurance agency business, the manpower dispatching
business, the real estate management business, the information system business,
the sale of miscellaneous goods and stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the
import and sale of pharmaceutical powders, as well as the operation of
pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Reports Net Sales Of JPY507.3 Billion For Q1 Fiscal 2010

   Aug 04, 2009

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation (Alfresa) reported a net sales of JPY507.3
billion for the three months ended June 30, 2009 compared to JPY480.5 billion
for the same period of 2008. Net income was JPY1.5 billion, or JPY36.33 per
share, for the three months ended June 30, 2009, compared to JPY4.15 billion, or
JPY99.38 per share, for the same period of 2008.Selling, general and
administrative expenses were JPY32.2 billion for the three months ended June 30,
2009 compared to JPY32.3 billion for the same period of 2008.Alfresa is a
Japan-based holding company. The company operates in three business segments.
The pharmaceutical wholesale segment is engaged in the wholesale of medical
products, test reagents, general drugs and medical equipment and materials, as
well as the supply processing and distribution business. The pharmaceutical
manufacture segment is engaged in the manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals,
test reagents, medical equipment and implements, as well as pharmaceutical
powders. The others segment is engaged in the transportation business, the
warehousing business, the insurance agency business, the manpower dispatching
business, the real estate management business, the information system business,
the sale of miscellaneous goods and stamps, the rental of welfare equipment, the
import and sale of pharmaceutical powders, as well as the operation of
pharmacies, among others.


Alfresa Signs Business Alliance Agreement To Create New Businesses In Food And
Health Field

   Feb 03, 2009

   Alfresa Holdings Corporation, Nippon Access, Inc., CS YAKUHIN CO., LTD., an
Alfresa Holdings Corporation subsidiary, and Alfresa Healthcare Communications
Corporation, an Alfresa Holdings Corporation subsidiary (collectively Alfresa),
have concluded a business alliance agreement with Link & Communication Inc. for
creating new businesses in the food and health field, which constitutes a core
of the self-medication business.Reasons for the business alliance include: Amid
rising consumer health awareness, distribution companies are being pushed to
respond to more sophisticated and diversified demands, and to provide higher
value added distribution functions.To proactively respond to changes in the
industry environment, the four companies Alfresa Holdings Corporation, CS
YAKUHIN CO., LTD., Alfresa Healthcare Communications Corporation and Nippon
Access, Inc. have been working to build up a business model which transcends the
boundaries of the food and over-the-counter drug industries with food and health
as the key slogan. The company said that it found it necessary to establish more
competitive advantages as intermediate distribution companies by accurately
grasping final consumer trends and developing appropriate marketing activities
to retailers and manufacturers, in order to build up a higher order cooperation
structure, including the creation of new business opportunities. The contents of
the business alliance include: Retail support business: provide retail support
to drug stores, supermarkets, convenience stores and other retailers in the
self-medication fieldManufacturer support business: provide marketing support to
manufacturers in the self-medication fieldand Consumer support business: provide
consumers with food and health information in the self-medication field.
* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *
Company Overview                        Events
Financial Ratios                        Investments
Key Employees                           Key Facts
Locations and Subsidiaries              Major Products and Services
Top Competitors

 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *

   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its
information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and
expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company
websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of
this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted
in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts
of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot
be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations
that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith
from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a
position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for
actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be
incorrect.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2017


                              376 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               February 25, 2008

Letters to the Editor - Feb. 25, 2008

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18 Vol. 51 No. 8

LENGTH: 618 words



HIGHLIGHT: 'Less work for ethics committees as consensus replaced controversies'
and other items

Less work for ethics committees as consensus replaced controversies

Regarding: "Willing, but waiting: Hospital ethics committees" (AMNews, Jan. 28):
Ethics committees have lost their bearings for two reasons.

First, the controversial ethical issues that they were formed to address --
controversies over the ethical appropriateness of withholding or withdrawing
various medical treatments under various circumstances -- largely have been
resolved. Through input from legal, bioethical and religious leaders, we have
reached a societal consensus on most of the matters that were deeply divisive 20
years ago.

Today, cases like those of Karen Quinlan or Nancy Cruzan would not need to go to
ethics committees. Even the case of Terri Schiavo, for all the legal
maneuvering, ultimately reinforced the prevailing consensus. After all was said
and done, even Congress and the president couldn't stop the removal of Schiavo's
feeding tube.

A second reason why ethics committees are less active than they used to be is
that most hospitals now have palliative care services. These specialists do a
lot of the work that ethics committees once did. They help patients and families
come to decisions about what to withhold or withdraw.

Does this mean that there is nothing left for ethics committees to do? Probably
not. But ethics committees need to understand better the flashpoints of
disagreement that arise in hospitals today with regard to end-of-life
decision-making.

Those disagreements likely are quite different now than they used to be. But
they are unlikely to have gone away entirely.

John Lantos, MD, Kansas City, Mo.

Financial transparency is essential to creating best possible health system

In the debate about the promises and perils of a single-payer health care system
for the United States, I have been surprised to hear so little about a vital
function our present system cannot provide: priority setting by democracy.

Currently, financial decisions that have major impact on the dynamics and
capacity of health care delivery are made strategically by market-driven
business entities, the processes of which often are private and the data usually
proprietary. This necessarily interferes with any effort by physicians, patients
or their advocates to set or enforce a meaningful agenda for health care at the
state or national level. Accountability to the true needs and priorities of our
society is nominal.

No system guarantees perfect decisions, but in a single-payer system the
decision-making process at least would be in the public record, open to
scrutiny. Obvious examples include how reimbursement rates are set, premiums
calculated, formularies structured, covered versus noncovered benefits
determined, and investments in health infrastructure allocated. Without this
information, our discourse about health care goals is purely academic.

Just as a free press has been essential to protecting our political vitality, a
transparent health care financing system will be essential to optimizing the
application of finite resources for our medical common good.

Andre Gerard, MD, Healdsburg, Calif.

Turnabout is fair play when medicine meets anonymous online venting

Regarding "Insurers' online forums invite patients to vent" (AMNews, Jan. 28):
America is a heterogeneous society with many differing values of what is
appropriate medical care and behavior.

If patients may use fake names to critique physicians, then let's balance the
field and allow physicians using fake names to post critiques of patients. Among
many other things, this would quickly make public persons abusing and exploiting
physicians' good will and dedication in order to fraudulently obtain narcotics.

Earl J. Carstensen, MD, Aurora, Colo.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Floats Retail investor guarantee

BYLINE: Jessica Gardner; Georgia Wilkins

SECTION: A; Pg. B007

LENGTH: 564  words


Floats Retail investor guarantee Medibank's $2 share price cap Jessica Gardner
Georgia Wilkins Finance Minister Mathias Cormann and Medibank managing director
George Savvides.Photo: Luis Ascui Retail investors will pay no more than $2 a
share for a piece of Medibank Private when it floats in November.

The pricing was revealed alongside other key details of the federal government's
$4 billion-plus sale of the health insurer released in a prospectus on Monday.

Finance Minister Mathias Cormann said the IPO would include a price cap of $2 a
share for retail investors, even if the final price comes in above the
indicative range of $1.55 to $2.

The cap will apply to the first $250,000 allocated to individual applicants
under the retail offer.

Just over 750,000 Australians have pre-registered for the Medibank float.

Medibank Private managing director George Savvides and advisers from the three
investment banks marketing the float will begin meeting with fund managers on a
roadshow this week.

Goldman Sachs Australia chief Simon Rothery, who is helping broker the share
sale, denied 'mum and dad' retail investors would be priced out of the
prospectus.

"The JLMs (joint lead managers) have done pre-offer research and got feedback
from the institutions on the back of that research and the price range is set
within those boundaries," he said. "In terms of both private health insurance
stocks and health sector stocks, we think the range setting for Medibank is
indicative of the sector."

Mr Savvides has said slashing management costs and reining in the amount
Medibank pays out to healthcare providers are two key ways he will boost
earnings for investors who buy into the insurer's $4billion-plus float.

The prospectus showed the insurer has already made some progress on its margins.

Medibank increased its operating profit margin from each $1 of premium revenue
to 4.4¢ in the 2014 financial year, from 3.7¢ in the previous year.

It also cut the cost of administering policies to 9.2¢ in the dollar in the year
ended June 30, from 9.6¢ in the year prior. Both measures are predicted to
improve further in the 2015 year, forecasts made in the prospectus showed.

Fund managers said Medibank's ability to boost earnings by lowering its costs
made it an attractive investment.Andy Gracey, a fund manager at Australian
Ethical Investment, said investors would be factoring cost savings in to the
market price, especially as Medibank moves from government to private ownership.

"The margins Medibank Private earns against peers are low, so people can see
efficiencies in taking costs out of the business," MrGracey said.

The indicative share price range suggests a market value of between $4.3 billion
and $5.5 billion, which would make Medibank one of the market's top 100 largest
companies and the biggest government privatisation since Telstra.

The valuation suggests a price that is equivalent to 16.5 to 21.3 times forward
earnings. The multiple is used to determine how expensive a company is compared
with its peers.

The market's only listed insurer, nib, trades on a multiple of about 18 times
forward earnings.

Hugh Dive, a fund manager at Philo Capital, said improvements were available for
Medibank's margins that "could be very beneficial for investors".

Medibank shareholders will get a fully franked dividend for the seven months to
June 30, 2015 of 4.9¢ a share, the prospectus shows.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TT


       Copyright 2014 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                           September 12, 2008 Friday
                                 Metro Edition

U considering McGuire as a business school expert;
A unit of the Carlson School of Business might make him an "executive in
residence." Ethical concerns were considered.

BYLINE: CHEN MAY YEE, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 730 words


The University of Minnesota is courting William McGuire, the health insurance
executive who lost his job in a stock options scandal, as "executive in
residence" at its business school.

Stephen Parente, director of the Medical Industry Leadership Institute in the
Carlson School of Management, said the school had given him the go-ahead to
explore the idea with McGuire, former chief executive of Minnetonka-based
UnitedHealth Group.

"We are courting him to be an executive-in-residence at Carlson," Parente said,
adding that McGuire's immense experience in health care is what appealed to the
university.

The position is a new one and explorations are still highly preliminary, with
the possibility of teaching, mentoring and research all on the table. Whether
McGuire will be paid is also up in the air.

Bob Chlopak, a spokesman for McGuire, said nothing was close to being decided.

"Dr. McGuire greatly values his relationship with the University of Minnesota,
but he has not made any decisions about the next step in his career, and is not
expecting to do so in the immediate future," Chlopak said.

"Dr. McGuire continues to be active in the health care sector, focusing his time
on how to expand access and improve both the efficiency and quality of our
current health care system. He also continues to pursue his philanthropic work
on issues surrounding access to quality education for disadvantaged people, and
preserving and protecting the environment."

In 2003, McGuire's family foundation gave $10 million to help build the McGuire
Translational Research facility at the university, and he has given almost $10
million for undergraduate scholarships for needy students.

The U's approach

McGuire stepped down as chief executive of UnitedHealth Group in late 2006 after
an internal investigation found that stock options at the company had likely
been backdated.

This week, he agreed to pay a record $30 million to settle a class-action
lawsuit led by the California Public Employees' Retirement System without
admitting wrongdoing. He earlier paid a record $7 million fine to the Securities
and Exchange Commission and relinquished a total of $618 million in options and
other benefits obtained while running UnitedHealth.

While head of UnitedHealth, McGuire regularly spoke at national events,
including the World Health Congress, a large annual conference attended by the
biggest names in medical care and insurance.

Parente said he first reached out to McGuire in August 2007, inviting him to be
the keynote speaker at an invitation-only event attended by 70 to 80 guests at
the Lafayette Club in Minnetonka Beach. The subject of McGuire's talk was the
future of health care.

McGuire hit familiar themes during the hourlong speech, including the need for
universal access to health care and the need to track the quality of care by
physicians and to pay them accordingly.

Parente said his approach to McGuire was along the lines of: "We don't really
care about the stock options. You know stuff. Tell us what you think."

Since then, McGuire has attended two seminars at the Carlson school, including
one where he arrived unannounced.

Parente said McGuire knew of him from his research into consumer-driven health
plans, which are high-deductible plans linked to health savings accounts.
Parente is known nationally for his work tracking the development of these new
plans and he is a health adviser to Sen. John McCain's presidential campaign.

Ethics concerns discussed

There was some discussion within the school, Parente said, on whether it was
appropriate to engage McGuire, given the lawsuits and investigations in which he
was embroiled. The conclusion was that it was.

"It's one thing if you're bringing in a criminal to speak. But if someone's
under investigation, that's fair game," he said.

Since then, McGuire has acted as "ad hoc kitchen-cabinet adviser" to him,
Parente said.

In June, when Parente presented a paper titled "Is Consumerism at Odds with
Prevention?" at the American Society of Health Economics at Duke University, he
listed McGuire as one of six co-authors.

The university has not paid McGuire for any of his work.

"This is a very smart, very engaged, very energetic person," Parente said. "He
seems to have, despite everything else, decided to stay in the area. It would be
pretty much negligent on my part not to attempt to engage him."

Chen May Yee - 612-673-7434

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

LETTERS FROM READERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 1609 words


Thanks for reminding me of where we still stand

I thank Bill McClellan for reminding me in his column "Our failures are bitter,
but at least the water tastes good" (Sept. 9) of where I stand academically in
this society. I almost forgot that I was not as smart as the average white
person in America. I must have been fooled by my formal educational training. It
could have something to do with being an honor-roll student through most of high
school, carrying a 3.0 grade-point average, or the 26 I scored on the ACT. Maybe
it was the 3.0 I carried in college. Then again, it may have something to do
with finishing in the top 6 percent in my fire academy class.

I get the gist of what Mr. McClellan was saying; still I thank him for saying
what many people think. It's the same attitude and perception that permeates
throughout society, affecting the true growth and advancement of any minority
group.

In regard to the contested exam, it's rather odd that both the city's attorney
and the judge stated that while the results may have had adverse effects, there
were no intentional biases noted. A bias - intentional or not - is a bias.
There's no gray area, so let's not minimize this issue.

Thomas Payton | St. Louis

Don't back down

We've all heard of the "dumbing down of America." The article "City drops
firefighters' entry test" (Sept. 6) is a classic example of the failure of some
of our educational facilities. In an effort to provide the best applicants, the
fire chief and the firefighters union both support the test that was chosen.

Why, then, would the city back down and try to find a simpler test that more
applicants could pass? What if the results were the same? I recommend that the
applicants who passed the test be allowed to proceed to the next level. Let's
not waste more time and money looking for results that could be the same as
before. Even more embarrassment for the city clearly would be the outcome.

Jack Crosby | Maryland Heights

Get the kids ready

Regarding "36 percent of Missouri grads need remedial college courses" (Sept.
9): There are ways to ensure that all freshmen at public universities and
colleges in Missouri are ready for college coursework. One is to require those
students who aren't ready for college courses to attend junior college first.
That way, the state will incur lower costs in getting the students ready. Also,
high schools could have four diplomas: college prep, which guarantees that a
student is ready for college; general high school, which indicates a student has
completed coursework satisfactorily; vocational-technical for various trades;
and attendance, which shows the student attended school regularly but did not
master coursework. If a high school has issued a student a college prep diploma
and the university finds that the student requires remedial coursework, the
school district should reimburse the university for failing to properly educate
the student.

The tests determining whether a student is ready for college-level courses
should be offered to high school students at the end of their junior year so
that they and the school district can assess where the students are in their
academic progress for attending college.

Remedial education for college students costs the state a lot of money because
the students pay only a fraction of the cost to educate them in a public
institution. This money could be used to lower tuition, improve academic
programs, free professors to teach more courses, etc. Additionally, the state
should publish statistics of what percentage of those who need remedial
coursework complete their degrees. That may show if the universities are
admitting students who shouldn't be admitted in the first place.

Paul Michalski | Warson Woods

No application needed

Regarding "Vietnam War-era vets get medallion" (Sept. 9): This is another
example of one department of the state not talking to another department. The
article states that to receive this award, veterans must apply for it. An award
should be something that is presented to a person for his accomplishments or
service, not something for which one must apply.

There are many Vietnam War veterans driving around Missouri with state-issued
license plates that show that they are veterans of the Vietnam War. To get this
license plate, they had to submit to the state documentation that they actually
served in Vietnam, not just in the military during the time of the Vietnam War.
Since that information already is on file with the state, why would those
veterans have to apply for the new medallion?

If Missouri wants to honor Vietnam veterans, the Office of the Adjutant General
could ask the Missouri Department of Revenue to provide information on who has
been issued a Vietnam Veteran personalized license plate and then make an award
of the medallion to that Vietnam Veteran. After all, he or she actually was "in
county" and already had to pay an extra license fee to have the honor of having
a special license plate.

Fred D. Marquard | Webster Groves

Mighty separation

I am intrigued with all the proposals to enlarge and enhance the Arch grounds.
Since moving to the area 12 years ago, I've wondered why St. Louis separates
people from its major visual symbol of history and from the riverfront of one of
the world's mightiest rivers.

When this project is decided, there will be obstacles: the complicated task of
federal approval, winning local financing and heartfelt support, assuring
tasteful planning and upkeep and acquiring private sector participation. All
would be hard-won, taking time and patience. But the benefits would showcase the
city grandly, with its rich heritage and thriving rebirth. The resulting
advantages for downtown go without saying.

Cities throughout our country take advantage of natural or created features by
developing around them. St. Louisans, however, occasionally voice a second-class
feeling about their hometown. Could it be that their most precious piece of real
estate seldom is experienced up close and personal?

Ginny Fazzari | Union

Haunting image

The picture of a Marine staff sergeant on the cover of the Sept. 9 PD-TV should
be tattooed on the foreheads of President George W. Bush, Vice President Dick
Cheney and former Secretary of State Donald Rumsfeld so they would see it every
time they looked in a mirror. I hope it haunts them until their dying day.

Cal Taylor | St. Charles

Moral structure

Regarding "Britain is poised to OK part-human research embryos" (Sept. 6): In
World War II, we - the Allies - including England, condemned the Nazis for doing
animal-human experiments. What's the point? Medical advances? At what cost to
our moral structure?

If it is true that such research is being done in this country as long as
federal funds are not involved, then our research community needs a history
lesson.

P.A. Murphy | Creve Coeur

Put care before profits

Congress expanded the State Children's Health Insurance Program, making
affordable health insurance available to millions more kids while also
strengthening Medicare. Alarmists have made the outrageous claim that expanding
the SCHIP will "crowd out" private insurers. For decades, Medicare and SCHIP
have made health care accessible to millions of Americans more efficiently than
private insurers ever could. Protecting insurance company profits must take a
back seat to the health care needs of real Americans.

Taxpayers now overpay private insurance companies providing Medicare Advantage
plans an average of 12 percent over the cost of covered services: $54 billion in
unnecessary costs over the next five years. The House version of SCHIP expansion
ends these overpayments and shifts the government's role from corporate welfare
agent to efficient administrator of affordable health insurance programs for the
people who need it most: kids, seniors and people with disabilities.

Why are insurance companies averse to competing on a level playing field with
Medicare and SCHIP? Perhaps because the insurance companies fail to make
high-quality, affordable insurance available to working families. Today, more
children than ever need the affordable health insurance SCHIP provides. The
Census Bureau reported that, for the sixth year in a row, the number of
uninsured has risen. The number of children without health insurance now is 8.3
million. SCHIP programs work and are a good investment of taxpayer dollars.

Katie Coombes | Chicago Organizing Director, Citizen Action/Illinois

Attacking the messenger

A recent letter had a quip about forming "Animals For the Ethical Treatment of
Humans." The writer, apparently, is furious about the rare shark or alligator
attack - almost always the result of human encroachment on wildlife habitat. He
objects to natural predation in the wild and wants to form AETA: Animals for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals. Sorry, AETA is taken. Last year, Congress enacted
the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act, a law that shields animal-use corporations
from legal protest and criminalizes protected free speech and assembly.

Apathy and unconstitutional laws do not hide that it's not about People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals. It's about the cow slaughtered while conscious in
an industrialized livestock operation. It's about the monkey shivering in a
barren lab for redundant research. It's about an elephant who lays down to die
after multiple circus performances.

When we excuse blatant cruelty because victims are deemed undeserving of our
mercy, society is capable of great bloodshed. We never should close our hearts
to the suffering of others, even if we detest the messengers who speak on their
behalf.

Brenda Shoss | University City President, Kinship Circle

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  YOUR VIEWS OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday

After New Hampshire primary: Will voters 'fire' Romney?;
Mitt Romney's comment on firing people only helps open a debate about
'traditional' economics. Even economists are torn - after being humbled by the
Great Recession. Can politics fill the void?

BYLINE: the Monitor's Editorial Board

LENGTH: 689 words


Does Mitt Romney really enjoy "firing people"?

Probably not if he doesn't need to. Few people would relish hurting others.
Still, his poor choice of words during the New Hampshire GOP primary was
insensitive, especially at a time of high unemployment.

In context, however, the former venture capitalist was stating a basic point of
standard economics: People must have the freedom to drop a service, such as
health insurance, if it doesn't measure up. Personal choices drive markets,
either up or down. Layoffs are often necessary. An economy can't remain static.

Not so fast, say Mr. Romney's opponents, including a few Republican presidential
candidates. Closing a company and laying off its workers while also making a
profit from the transaction is unethical, they say.

"If somebody comes in, takes all the money out of your company, and then leaves
you bankrupt while they go off with millions, that's not traditional
capitalism," Newt Gingrich said.

Romney's former private-equity firm, Bain Capital, is indeed a master at
investing in companies, even if nearly a quarter of the firms during Romney's
time there filed for bankruptcy or closed their doors, according to a Wall
Street Journal probe. Overall, Bain ended up creating jobs by pushing efficiency
and results, claims both the company and Romney.

The 2012 presidential race may hinge on which candidate is viewed as the best
"job creator." But even economists are divided over how to nurture a sluggish
economy back to health and what is "traditional" capitalism.

Economists were humbled after the 2008 financial crash. Their mathematical
models for assessing risk only pushed financial firms to make false assumptions
- especially about the value of home mortgages. Few economists predicted the
Wall Street meltdown and the Great Recession.

The "dismal science" is focused mainly on the study of markets, although many
economists also offer policy advice. This week, the profession offered up its
first ethical code, calling on members whose articles are published by the
American Economic Association to disclose potential conflicts of interest.

The AEA, which sees its profession as merely fact based, has avoided an ethical
code up to now. Still, a group of some 375 economists sought the new ethical
code while also pushing the profession to go further and press for reducing
inequality.

The "Occupy" movement, too, has made demands on "traditional" economics, or the
idea that self-interest is the root of all market behavior. Last fall, 70
students walked out of a Harvard professor's class because he was teaches
free-market fundamentals.

After Romney's comment on firing people, the GOP primaries will likely join the
debate over whether economic policy can make markets more "fair" and create
rapid job growth. About half of Americans have a favorable view of capitalism,
while 40 percent do not, according to polls. Either way, capitalism continues to
evolve, which is why it won out over communism and socialism.

Even its supporters want to ensure that markets reward people by merit, that
earners pay taxes, that credit isn't recklessly dispensed, and that risks are
born by those taking them, not taxpayers or consumers. Those flaws were fully
exposed by the Great Recession.

Humbled as they might be now, most economists still prefer that politics
generally decide questions of policy rather than having their profession adopt
ethical standards to their "science." The flaws of economists themselves in
either causing or not predicting the financial crisis emphasizes just how much
human behavior can't be pinned down by statistics and models.

Romney's mistake may not be that his comment was insensitive but in his
certainty of knowing how to direct the broad currents of human society.
Overconfidence by economists can misdirect an economy. At best, they can say
what theories haven't worked in the past. But the future? Like a free market,
voters must choose the candidates whose policy positions best fit their own
understanding of what an economy should be.

And they can also fire politicians with failing policies - although just don't
say one enjoys doing so.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 999 DOCUMENTS


             Journal Record Legislative Report (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              June 2, 2008 Monday

Oklahoma's Blue Cross president has three goals in mind

BYLINE: Heather Caliendo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 560  words


When Rodney Huey was appointed president of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Oklahoma in November 2007, Bert Marshall said the staff was buzzing with
excitement.

But just a month later, Huey died from a stroke. Marshall was approached to
serve as interim president, and after a lengthy search was given the job
full-time earlier this month.

"So I'm excited about the job, but I'm not terribly excited about the
circumstances of it," said Marshall, president of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Oklahoma. "Rodney was a good friend to me personally, to my family, and of
course to everyone at Blue Cross. "

Oklahoma born and bred, Marshall has been with Blue Cross for more than 10
years, and prior to his appointment served as vice president of external
operations.

Though Huey's passing was a tragic experience for Marshall and the staff, he is
ready to implement a new set of goals and continue successful ventures for the
state's largest private insurer.

"The plan by which all decisions are made is that we have to make sound business
decisions that make sense financially, and we've got to be ethical, we have to
be moral and right - that is the framework for making decisions," he said.

Marshall foresees three goals Blue Cross must execute: increase health care
coverage, improve the state of Oklahoma's health and employ more Oklahomans.

He said the dramatic rate at which health care costs are rising is something
that is increasingly becoming a concern.

Part of the answer in achieving more coverage, Marshall said, is to be
opportunistic and creative. The company is working with provider communities and
some Indian nations to extend coverage there as well.

Marshall said a percentage of people can afford health care coverage but choose
not to buy it. He said the "young invincibles" are a category of young, healthy
people who make a fair amount of money but don't use insurance.

"We have got to be more flexible on our products and some of our advertising
needs to be targeted toward them," said Marshall. "We are working on programs
right now that are specifically designed to attract a younger population, those
people who don't buy health insurance for whatever reason. "

Improving the health of Oklahomans is an area Marshall said is critical. In the
past the focus of health care was on the chronically sick, but Marshall said
Blue Cross has taken a broader view of their membership and population in an
effort to craft better programs. Those programs tackle wellness, nutrition and
exercise.

Some programs target childhood obesity and tobacco use.

"Statistics say something like a quarter of kids smoke and that is
unacceptable," he said. "Those are the kids that will enter the work force and
cost society money by driving up the cost of health care. So we need to
intervene at an early age. "

Since Blue Cross is an Oklahoma company, Marshall believes that presents the
company with a positive public perception and sets them apart from the
competition.

Blue Cross can bring in Oklahoma employees if they follow a natural process, he
said.

"If we are successful, if we cover more Oklahomans, stay financially strong, and
keep making good moral, ethical decisions, then we will grow and hire on more
people," he said. "We are something different; we mean something different to
the public as well as our employees. It's been sixty years of doing the right
thing. "

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday

Oklahoma's Blue Cross president has three goals in mind

BYLINE: Heather Caliendo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 560  words


When Rodney Huey was appointed president of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Oklahoma in November 2007, Bert Marshall said the staff was buzzing with
excitement.

But just a month later, Huey died from a stroke. Marshall was approached to
serve as interim president, and after a lengthy search was given the job
full-time earlier this month.

"So I'm excited about the job, but I'm not terribly excited about the
circumstances of it," said Marshall, president of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Oklahoma. "Rodney was a good friend to me personally, to my family, and of
course to everyone at Blue Cross. "

Oklahoma born and bred, Marshall has been with Blue Cross for more than 10
years, and prior to his appointment served as vice president of external
operations.

Though Huey's passing was a tragic experience for Marshall and the staff, he is
ready to implement a new set of goals and continue successful ventures for the
state's largest private insurer.

"The plan by which all decisions are made is that we have to make sound business
decisions that make sense financially, and we've got to be ethical, we have to
be moral and right - that is the framework for making decisions," he said.

Marshall foresees three goals Blue Cross must execute: increase health care
coverage, improve the state of Oklahoma's health and employ more Oklahomans.

He said the dramatic rate at which health care costs are rising is something
that is increasingly becoming a concern.

Part of the answer in achieving more coverage, Marshall said, is to be
opportunistic and creative. The company is working with provider communities and
some Indian nations to extend coverage there as well.

Marshall said a percentage of people can afford health care coverage but choose
not to buy it. He said the "young invincibles" are a category of young, healthy
people who make a fair amount of money but don't use insurance.

"We have got to be more flexible on our products and some of our advertising
needs to be targeted toward them," said Marshall. "We are working on programs
right now that are specifically designed to attract a younger population, those
people who don't buy health insurance for whatever reason. "

Improving the health of Oklahomans is an area Marshall said is critical. In the
past the focus of health care was on the chronically sick, but Marshall said
Blue Cross has taken a broader view of their membership and population in an
effort to craft better programs. Those programs tackle wellness, nutrition and
exercise.

Some programs target childhood obesity and tobacco use.

"Statistics say something like a quarter of kids smoke and that is
unacceptable," he said. "Those are the kids that will enter the work force and
cost society money by driving up the cost of health care. So we need to
intervene at an early age. "

Since Blue Cross is an Oklahoma company, Marshall believes that presents the
company with a positive public perception and sets them apart from the
competition.

Blue Cross can bring in Oklahoma employees if they follow a natural process, he
said.

"If we are successful, if we cover more Oklahomans, stay financially strong, and
keep making good moral, ethical decisions, then we will grow and hire on more
people," he said. "We are something different; we mean something different to
the public as well as our employees. It's been sixty years of doing the right
thing. "

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Personnel or management changes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

               The Mississippi Association of Health Underwriters

                           4209 Lakeland Drive  #267
                               Flowood,  MS 39232
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.ms-ahu.org

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   The Mississippi Association of Health Underwriters (MAHU) is a nonprofit
professional organization of health insurance professionals dedicated to serving
the health insurance needs of small and large employers in our state, and those
seeking individual health insurance coverage. We also serve the public by
strengthening the insurance industry, advocating for effective legislation,
ethical leadership and professional standards, and by educating our members and
the clients they serve. Our members strive to obtain insurance for clients who
struggle to balance their need to purchase comprehensive health coverage with
the reality of rapidly escalating medical care costs.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              384 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                          Health Insurance Washington

                            14715 Pacific Ave S #602
                               Tacoma,  WA 98444
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (877) 539-9041
URL: www.health-insurance-washington.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Health-Insurance-Washington.com is a small dedicated group of health
insurance industry professionals based in Tacoma, Washington who formed in 2004
with the sole purpose of taking the confusion out of finding great coverage for
medical, dental, prescriptions, and hospitalization benefits. We here at
AffordableMedicalDental.com have researched many of the top medical benefit
organizations and health insurance companies in the nation and have many options
available to meet your needs. We are independent agents with creative solutions
and we are here to help you get what you need at a price you can afford. All of
our agents must maintain the absolute highest in ethical standards for our
customers and the companies that we represent. We are here to earn your business
and your trust. By utilizing the latest in internet technology for web
conferencing and telecommunications for doing business over the internet, we are
able to show you exactly what your plan will cover and what it will cost in a
fast and secure manner. We are not just here for the one time sale. We are here
for the long haul to help you with whatever your life and health insurance needs
are for today and the future, and to make the whole process as simple as
possible for you. Click on an agent's picture to visit their bio page.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              385 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                          February 24, 2010 Wednesday

Britain - Child sweatshop fears over NHS equipment

BYLINE: Will Stone, Health Reporter

LENGTH: 271 words


Medical experts warned yesterday that surgical equipment used by the NHS could
be made in child sweatshops.

Concern over child labour and poor working conditions in Pakistan, where many
NHS equipment is produced, has been flagged by the British Medical Association.

NHS National Services Scotland, which procures most medical supplies on behalf
of health boards, gets surgical instruments through contracts with multinational
companies but the region where the instruments are made is not specified in
contracts because of EU rules.

Dr Mahmood Bhutta, who is an advisor on the BMA medical fair and ethical trade
group, said: "There is evidence to suggest that many supplies used in the NHS
are produced in unhealthy, unsafe and unfair working conditions.

"Workers in the developing world are poorly paid and are exposed to hazardous
conditions where they risk serious injury and even death.

"Many surgical instruments are made in Pakistan, where workers work 12 hours a
day, seven days a week. Some suffer serious injuries due to poor standards of
health and safety. There is also a use of child labour, with some workers as
young as seven."

The BMA has been working with the NHS in England to produce guidance on ethical
purchasing, which is to be published soon, while the Scottish government is
being urged to follow suit to coincide with Fair Trade Fortnight.

A spokesman for NHS National Services Scotland said: "Our terms and conditions
of contract do require that participants to our agreements operate and apply
ethical standards and require that these are applied to all parts of the supply
chain."

willstone@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               November 15, 1998

Money Matters: SPECIAL REPORT: ETHICAL INVESTMENT: 'Nutty' funds are not

BYLINE: JILL INSLEY

SECTION: The Observer Business Page; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 668 words


WHEN Friends Provident launched the first ethical fund in 1984, it was referred
to in City circles as the Brazil fund because of its 'nutty' aims.

But 14 years on, more than 250,000 people in the UK have invested pounds 1.93
billion in ethical funds, typically those that do not invest in firms trading in
arms or responsible for pollution.  Most of this money is invested in unit
trusts or personal equity plans.

Investors wanting to apply their beliefs to their financial arrangements have
until now had a limited choice. Although Friends Provident launched ethical
investment, life and pension funds simultaneously, other insurers were slow to
follow.

Martin Mullany, a director of London independent financial adviser Brooks
Macdonald Gayer, blames the slow development of the ethical financial product
market on worries about the investments long-term performance.

Now the growing popularity of socially responsible investing has been met with a
wave of new financial products. Large insurers such as Standard Life and Axa Sun
Life have launched ethical products, and companies which already run ethical
funds have added to their ranges.

Amanda Davidson, a partner with London independent financial adviser Holden
Meehan, says several insurers are relaxing their selection criteria, adapting
ethical funds to a wider range of uses.

As a result, investors can choose from ethical financial products sold by more
than 30 different companies. 'It is possible to link ethical funds to almost any
insurance or pension product,' she says. 'The only exceptions are with -profits
funds and annuities.'

Friends Provident, which manages pounds 378 million on behalf of pension
investors in the Stewardship Pension Fund, a UK equities fund, has just launched
two 'managed' life and pensions funds. Phil White, assistant product manager for
the Friends Provident Stewardship range of funds, says the new funds will invest
in both UK and overseas equities, while 10 per cent of their portfolios will
comprise ethically screened fixed-interest bonds.

Axa Sun Life is also attempting to make ethical funds appeal to a wider range of
investors by reducing risk. Andy Woollon, marketing development manager for
investments, says the fund's criteria have been relaxed slightly to enable it to
invest in bigger companies.

He says: 'Ethical investors were prepared to forgo ethical criteria for personal
choice issues such as smoking and drinking, as opposed to things they had no
control over, such as nuclear power.'

By including companies concerned with the production and distribution of alcohol
and tobacco, Axa Sun Life found it could invest in about 30 of the FTSE 100
companies.  The fund is sold as a unit trust, with an initial charge of 5 per
cent and annual management charge of 1.5 per cent, or as an investment fund for
Axa's personal pensions and group personal pensions.  It can be used with Axa's
unit-linked products, including endowments, critical illness insurance and
whole-life assurance. NPI has also added to its ethical product range to attract
risk-averse investors.  The insurer has adapted the popular index-tracker
concept to develop its own Social Index tracker fund. The index comprises 150
companies from the FTSE All-Share index, assessed as being the most effective in
managing their environment and social impact. Figures supplied by NPI show that
cumulative returns from the Social Index companies have increased more than
3.5-fold since January 1990, bettering a threefold increase by the FTSE
All-Share index.

The Social Index fund is an Open Ended Investment Company (Oeic), a pooled
investment fund whose assets are split into an unlimited number of shares that
are traded on the Stock Exchange. The initial charge is 4.5 per cent; the annual
management charge is 1 per cent. NPI sells shares in the fund as a taxable
investment, but it plans to offer a Pep, a pension fund, and an individual
savings account option from next year.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              387 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             May 26, 2001 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Ministering to the AMA: take one boot twice a day

BYLINE: Padraic P. McGuinness

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; News Review; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 876 words


THERE'S a certain old man in Queensland who must be watching the punch-up
between the Federal Health Minister, Dr Michael Wooldridge, and the president of
the Australian Medical Association, Dr Kerryn Phelps, with a great deal of wry
amusement. And although he would not admit it publicly, he is probably
barracking for Wooldridge.

This is of course Bill Hayden, the man who introduced Medibank, the forerunner
of Medicare, to the Australian health system, and later became governor-
general. He knows that the AMA is not a collection of genteel and caring
professionals, but a militant union whose leaders have often conducted
themselves more like the bare-knuckled streetfighters of the old Builders
Labourers Federation than highly educated

professionals. The AMA fought bitterly against the introduction of Medibank (the
name survives in the health insurance company Medibank Private, a real irony in
the light of the fact that Medibank was originally planned as a step towards the
abolition of private health insurance), and fought in the dirtiest fashion it
knew how. Not that it was alone.

As Hayden wrote in his autobiography, "Behind those comforting stethoscopes
lurked some of the toughest and most unscrupulous trade union officials I ever
met. When I used one loose word, it would be wrenched into a new shape to imply
something sinister, and off they would streak to misrepresent what I was
proposing. For a well-educated, generously remunerated professional group who
functioned according to a lofty ethical code it was disappointing to observe
that all they ever wanted to talk about was money, more precisely how much they
were determined to earn ... Behind certain buzz words like `doctor-patient
confidentiality' and `patient privacy' loitered a very well-developed sense of
personal greed ... The tragedy of this debate, as with so much industrial
politics, was that certain of the leadership groups were not well representative
of the doctors who beavered away at their various practices looking after
people."

Hayden had to put up with a massive campaign of slander and whispers against
him. This had several strands. One version was that he was mentally unstable,
had been treated for mental breakdown, and was not even sane. To anyone who knew
the man, as I did (and do) this was totally absurd. He had his share of neuroses
and disappointments, like the rest of us, and family tragedies, but he always
has been eminently sane and rational, and able to change his mind under the
force of argument much to the chagrin of the ideological enforcers

of his own side of politics. His family was also subjected to filthy rumours
spread by doctors who had little if any awareness of medical ethics. He was
still dealing with the echoes many years afterwards. Not a single one of them
had any foundation in fact.

Now the bullies of the AMA are ranged against a different minister from the
other side of politics. But the issues are essentially the same money and power.
And there has been a laughable threat to sue Wooldridge for defamation for some
remarks he has made. Whether or not the present Government survives the next
election, it would be wise for Labor to tread carefully in this matter since,
they know, or ought to know, that the AMA cares little for political loyalties
of any kind.

The biggest mistake Wooldridge has made so far is to allow the AMA to get away
with restricting entry into general practice. It is clear that too many doctors
are graduating from the universities to allow general practice to survive in its
old form of individual practitioners, who can enjoy a substantial income, even
though this is underwritten by Medicare. To give each new graduate after
postgraduation training a prescription pad, which amounts to a blank chequebook
on the government, would lead to a rapid increase in expenditures. The response
to this should not have been to maintain the incomes of those in practice at the
expense of new graduates, but to allow the competition to lower the average
incomes of general practitioners and drive some of them out of this kind of
business. There are plenty of other suitable jobs for qualified medical
practitioners working in country hospitals, for example.

Not all GPs are either rich or grasping. Some are desperate as they see their
incomes being squeezed and find themselves unable to give as much time to each
patient as he or she deserves. But they are just the industrial cannon fodder.
The present confrontation is about an attempt to limit excessive prescription of
some particularly expensive drugs in this case, cholesterol-lowering drugs,
where the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee has said that only if blood
cholesterol

is above a certain level should the drugs be subsidised. But the AMA loves being
generous at somebody else's expense and pretends it knows better than expert
advisers.

Individual general practice is probably outmoded. Managed care and patients'
advocates to act as informed intermediaries between patients and doctors are
both possible paths against which, of course, the AMA will fight tooth and nail.
There has never been a better time for Wooldridge and the Government to put the
boot into the AMA. It can only win votes by doing so.

ppmcg@ozemail.com.au

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2001 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Drive Edition

THEY CAN BE A MOUTHFUL ;
Careful with acronyms

BYLINE: J.E. McReynolds

SECTION: OPINION; WRITER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 531 words



Reaction was swift (and overwrought) to associating the name "Geronimo" with the
operation that resulted in Osama bin Laden's death. Still, government officials
must take caution with the names and acronyms they use to describe agencies,
programs and initiatives.

ARRA (American Recovery and Reinvestment Act) isn't a reference to a weapon once
employed by Geronimo's Apache brethren. WIPP (Waste Isolation Pilot Project)
intends no glorification of violence - or a device used to brutalize slaves.
GIPSA (Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration) isn't a
reference to a maligned people who prefer to be known as Romanis rather than
"Gypsies."

Uncle Sam USES (United States Employment Service) scores of acronyms, so many
that it takes a glossary to tame this TIGER (Transportation Investment
Generating Economic Recovery) of terminology. One can BARC (Beltsville
Agriculture Research Center) all night and still not match FIDO (Federal
Intragency Databases Online). GWoB doesn't mean "Government without a Bush" but
"Government without Boundaries." WAPA isn't an ethnic slur of Italians. It's
Western Area Power Administration.

People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) might squirm at COOP
(Continuity of Operations) for conjuring caged domestic birds but it should like
FERA (Federal Interagency Databases Online) for evoking wild animals.

Hail a computer HAC (Health Administration Center) and you can take an ECAB
(Employees' Compensation Appeals Board) and MARVEL (Machine Assisted Realization
of the Virtual Electronic Library) at the passing scenery. Stop for an OAT
(Office for the Advancement of Telehealth) cookie and wash it down with a COLA
(cost of living adjustment) cooled by a CHIP (Children's Health Insurance
Program) of ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) - although the
carbonization might cause you to SBRP (Superfund Basic Research Program).

Crank up the AC, sit in an IC (Intelligence Community) cold room and watch a
science fiction movie featuring CPO (Correction Program Office), a ROBO
(Releases of Beneficial Organisms) cousin of C-3PO. But don't let your trash
LIHEAP (Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program) on the floor. That's the
behavior of a LAUS (Local Area Unemployment Statistics)!

The NEJAC (National Environmental Justice Advisory Council) reaction to the
Geronimo reference briefly put the White House on the RAT (Recovery
Accountability and Transparency) list and mitigated the JOLI (Job Opportunities
for Low-Income Individuals) mood most of us were in following the OWOW (Offices
of Wetlands, Oceans and Watersheds) moment when we heard of bin Laden's demise.
WHO (World Health Organization) would have thought this man would be found? Came
as no surprise to those who PIN (Public Integrity Section) their hopes on
special ops.

Other than FBI, what's the most common federal acronym? ITS (International
Treasury Services) probably ZIP, the last item on the list. Those who know what
ZIP stands for are good STEWARDS (Sustaining the Earth's Watersheds,
Agricultural Research Data System). They obviously have Uncle Sam's TBAC (Tribal
Budget Advisory Council).

McReynolds is The Oklahoman's chief editorial writer.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

Wanted: healthy employees, or liars

BYLINE: Tom Lyons

SECTION: B SECTION; Comment; Pg. BS1

LENGTH: 407 words


A practice that seemed to encourage hiring liars almost became Sarasota County
policy 10 years ago.

Tucked into a 1998 County Commission consent agenda was a plan by County
Administrator Jim Ley to ban hiring smokers.

That ban was to apply to anyone who had smoked even once in the previous year.
Admitting even to a celebratory birthday cigar would have meant mandatory
rejection.

Since it would have been so tough to check on declarations of a smoke-free year,
I wrote then that the policy would cause discrimination in favor of liars.

One county commissioner, Shannon Staub, decided to pull the item off the consent
agenda and make an issue of it. Soon, the plan was dropped.

Staub, a former smoker, thought a hiring ban too severe a form of government
intrusion into personal decisions. I agreed. But Staub has changed her mind.

"I guess I've matured," she said Friday. After 10 years, she is more aware of
the consequences of smoking, and of the effectiveness of workplace policies that
encourage healthier living.

So this month, Ley had no problem installing a virtually identical hiring ban,
after quietly having his staff present it privately to each commissioner
individually.

Ley used the reasons always cited: Statistically, smokers increase health
insurance costs and use more sick days.

But the same problems could be tackled with a suggestion just sent to Ley by
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. PETA, citing evidence that a
vegetarian diet reduces the rate of several major health problems, is asking the
county not to hire meat eaters.

No one takes that seriously, of course. No one will until four out of five
people are vegetarian, just as four out of five people are now nonsmokers. Only
then might it seem acceptable to view omnivores as people with a disgustingly
unhealthy meat habit and in need of guidance in the form of severe economic
discrimination.

Commissioner Jon Thaxton says he raised no objections to Ley's hiring ban, but
now plans to raise the topic at Tuesday's meeting.

Partly he's been mulling the personal freedom, government intrusion thing. But
there's also his CPA.

The man is an excellent accountant and could probably save the county big bucks
if he'd agree to work there, Thaxton said. But he smokes.

The ban could force the county to settle for a far less qualified person,
Thaxton said.

Yes, and maybe a less honest one, too.

Tom Lyons can be contacted at tom.lyons@heraldtribune.com or (941) 361-4964.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                             July 16, 2002 Tuesday

Report from Europe

LENGTH: 994 words

Report from Europe

Public debate recommended on priorities for British healthcare

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report Some members of Parliament recommended in a
report last week that the British government should sponsor a public debate on
spending priorities for healthcare treatments.

"We wish to record our view that the government must work to achieve a
comprehensive framework for healthcare prioritization, underpinned by an
explicit set of ethical and rational values to allow the relative costs and
benefits of different areas of National Health Service (NHS) spending to be
assessed in an informed way," the MPs said. They added, "Such a framework would
need to secure the input of the wider population as well as NHS patients and
staff, policymakers and academics."

The National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE), which evaluates the
cost-effectiveness of drugs and other medical treatments and issues guidance to
health authorities, already operates as an assessment body. But Reuters reported
that after taking evidence about the way NICE operates, the MPs recommended in a
report that the government should ensure a more open public debate on healthcare
priorities.

David Hinchliffe, chairman of the Health Select Committee, told Reuters that the
state of Oregon in the United States serves as a good example, noting that
residents there have ranked hundreds of health interventions in order of
priority in order to decide which should be funded.

Hinchliffe said that NICE has been handed an "impossible" task. "We believe
there is a need for a much more wide-ranging debate." He said that NICE's
guidance on healthcare technologies and treatments, which is binding throughout
England and Wales, has led to new problems, with NHS managers saying that they
risk having to cut back on other services in order to meet mandatory NICE
recommendations.

"This is clearly an emotive and difficult issue, but one we should not shy away
from," Hinchliffe said, "which is why we have recommended that the government
should work to achieve a comprehensive framework for healthcare prioritization,
underpinned by an explicit set of ethical and rational values, which will help
people make these decisions . . . in a more informed and consistent way."

The MPs' report recommends several broader changes, including a shift in NICE's
work program away from isolated technology appraisals toward broader clinical
guidance. It adds that where isolated technology appraisals remain necessary for
new treatments, those should be issued at the time of a treatment's launch.

CellFactors seeks $12.4M for bone-repair product CellFactors (Cambridge, UK)
said it is seeking to raise $12.4 million through an offer to existing investors
and institutions to finance the development of Skeletex, its bone-repair
product. CEO Iain Cubitt told Medical Device Daily's sister publication,
BioWorld International, "We have started the process of raising the money. We
are not going for classical venture capital but high net-worth individuals. The
whole area [of cell therapy] has captured the imagination and we've got a large
shareholder base of private individuals who have said to us they want the chance
to put in more money." The fund raising is expected to close in mid-August.

Skeletex is yet to be assessed in clinical trials, but Cubitt said the company
is in discussions on licensing deals with a number of large orthopedic
companies. "Skeletex is not in the clinic yet and people want to batter the door
down. Because we have interest from several [potential licensees], I think we
can get good value at an early stage," Cubitt said.

The company established a GMP manufacturing facility for Skeletex, which is not
a cell line but a cartilage matrix containing a mixture of growth factors and
other proteins that initiate the process of bone formation in humans. Cubitt
said samples have been forwarded to potential licensees for testing.

In the orthopedic market, CellFactors does not intend to grant a broad license,
but to license by applications, such as spinal fusion and coated prosthetics.
The company is developing the product itself for dental applications and has a
tie-up with Sheffield University, where one of the company's co founders,
Bradley Stringer, is based.

The fund raising also will allow CellFactors to advance the development of its
second product, a cell line for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. "We want
to keep Skeletex moving forward, and also get the Parkinson's product through to
the same stage of development," Cubitt said.

EP votes for tougher GMO controls The European Parliament voted for tougher
controls on genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in its recent plenary debate
in Strasbourg, France, to the consternation of the European biotechnology
industry. The proposed new European Union controls not only were approved, but a
loud chorus also went up from Socialists and Green Group politicians for the
control provisions to be made even more stringent.

The European biotechnology community described the vote as "a disappointment for
green biotechnology." EuropaBio said the controls will be impossible to
implement, will discriminate against the new technology, reduce consumer choice,
and disrupt trade with third countries, "while adding nothing to safety." Simon
Barber, director of EuropaBio's plant biotechnology unit, accused the majority
in the Parliament of being "unrealistic" and of taking the same over-cautious
approach that led to the de facto moratorium of new GMO products in the EU,
which has stopped "while the rest of the world evaluates, authorizes and
cultivates new products that are bringing significant environmental and economic
benefits."

EuropaBio said after the vote: "The ability of green biotech to contribute to
the goal of Europe becoming the world's most competitive knowledge-based
economy, as set out in the EU's own life sciences and biotechnology action plan,
is now in question."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2002 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 17, 1997 Wednesday

DAILY FUND ACTION

BYLINE: Biggest movers

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS; Pg. B14

LENGTH: 173 words


ALL FUNDS
First Canadian Global Science & Tech  +3.54
                                      %
AGF American Growth Class             +3.39
                                      %
Manulife AGF American Growth Class    +3.35
GIF                                   %
Ethical North American Equity         +3.32
                                      %
NN Can-Daq 100                        +3.31
                                      %


CANADIAN EQUITY FUNDS
NN Canadian 35 Index                +2.11
                                    %
Caldwell Canadian Equity            +1.75
                                    %
Altamira Capital Growth Fund        +1.73
Limited                             %
20/20 RSP Aggressive Equity         +1.64
                                    %
Resolute Growth                     +1.63
                                    %


U.S. EQUITY FUNDS
AGF American Growth Class             +3.39
                                      %
Manulife AGF American Growth Class    +3.35
GIF                                   %
Ethical North American Equity         +3.32
                                      %
NN Can-Daq 100                        +3.31
                                      %
Growsafe U.S. 21st Century Index      +3.30
                                      %


INTERNATIONAL EQUITY FUNDS
First Canadian Global Science &     +3.54
Tech                                %
Infinity International              +2.97
                                    %
Fidelity Focus Financial Services   +2.87
                                    %
RCC Euro                            +2.28
                                    %
Fidelity Focus Technology           +2.27
                                    %


As of 6:00 p.m. Sep. 16, 1997. All prices show the % change from the previous
day. Data supplied by Fundata Canada Inc. Pricing is for information purposes
only and cannot be guaranteed for accuracy. Check with your fund sponsor before
buying or selling. Results in this table exclude offshore funds such as Global
Manager.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1997 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     June 28, 1995, Wednesday, ALL EDITIONS

HEALTH WATCH;
MIND & BODY;
Ethical questions need attention

BYLINE: M. A. J.; McKenna

SECTION: HEALTH WATCH, Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 626 words


The ethical problems raised by prenatal genetic testing are as varied as the
pregnancies themselves. Genetic specialists have learned how much time and
effort exploring them requires.

The Human Genome Project, whose goal is delineating genes and potential
mutations on each of the 46 chromosomes, set aside 15 percent of its funds to
look specifically at ethical and legal issues, said Dr. Paul Fernhoff, medical
director of Emory University's Genetics Laboratory. "They're asking how this
information will be used and how we can prevent it from being misused," he said.

Concerns about misuse of test results have surrounded everything from sex
selection of fetuses (which many geneticists believe is already practiced in
Asia) to job discrimination against adults with genetic defects.

Some geneticists refuse to test for the gender of an embryo if their preliminary
analysis shows no signs of a sex-linked condition. And some are concerned about
tests incorporating recently discovered cancer genes such as BRCA1 and p53. Both
substantially increase the probability of cancer, but not to 100 percent, and
both may be complicated by environmental factors.

Once that fetus becomes an adult, "health and life insurance will be almost
impossible to get, if they are honest about their condition," Fernhoff said.
"And it will probably be very difficult for them to find employment, because
they're uninsurable."

Others raise the possibility of more subtle discrimination - within a family,
for instance, if the parents are aware of a diagnosis that is not known to the
child. For instance, fragile X syndrome causes profound mental retardation in
males; its influence on females ranges from retardation to learning disabilities
to no detectable effect.

"The problem is when a parent is hypersensitive to the possibilities," said Dr.
Raymond Allen, an Atlanta perinatologist specializing in high-risk pregnancies.
"What is a behavioral problem for a young adult and what is abnormal?"

Geneticists have already faced the problem of sharing information among adult
family members. Identifying exact mutations frequently requires linkage testing,
which compares genetic material from close relatives. But once the mutation is
identified, confidentiality requires disclosing the results to the patient who
initiated the testing - and keeping it from the rest.

"In family evaluations for fragile X syndrome, we might find that certain women
in that family are carriers of the gene, and thus at risk themselves to have
affected sons," Fernhoff said. "But we cannot go directly to those people; they
didn't ask us to get involved with them."

As more tests become available, the question of who should be tested becomes
more acute. Absent a known family history of disease, amniocentesis and
chorionic villus sampling are mostly limited to women older than 35 - because at
that age, the risk of having an affected child outweighs the risk of miscarriage
from the procedure. But as tests begin to indicate conditions that are unwanted
but not life-threatening - like cleft palate or club foot - younger patients may
press to share in the results.

Some of the public concern over genetic testing undoubtedly masks distress at
the possibility that testing will lead occasionally to abortion.

But ethicists reject making judgments about which conditions are serious enough
to require pregnancy termination. They point out that abortion patients who
haven't had genetic testing aren't asked to justify their decisions.

"What people do with the information is their own business," Allen said. "I am
constantly amazed by what people do and don't do. Many people choose to continue
a pregnancy when the prognosis for the fetus is hopeless."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: Conditions diagnosed by prenatal testing:
-Anencephaly
-Cystic fibrosis
-Duchenne muscular dystrophy
-Fragile X syndrome
-Hemophilia
-Huntington's disease
-Lesch-Nyhan syndrome
-Spina bifida
-Sickle cell anemia
-Tay-Sachs disease
-Thalassemia
-Trisomy 13 (retardation)
-Trisomy 18 (retardation)
-Trisomy 21 (Down's syndrome)

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution


                              393 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Medibank's $2 share price cap;
Floats - Retail investor guarantee

BYLINE: Jessica Gardner, Georgia Wilkins with AAP

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 534 words


Retail investors will pay no more than $2 a share for a piece of Medibank
Private when it floats in November.

The pricing was revealed alongside other key details of the federal government's
$4 billion-plus sale of the health insurer released in a prospectus on Monday.

Finance Minister Mathias Cormann said the IPO would include a price cap of $2 a
share for retail investors, even if the final price comes in above the
indicative range of $1.55 to $2.

The cap will apply to the first $250,000 allocated to individual applicants
under the retail offer.

Just over 750,000 Australians have pre-registered for the Medibank float.

Medibank Private managing director George Savvides and advisers from the three
investment banks marketing the float will begin meeting with fund managers on a
roadshow this week.

Goldman Sachs Australia chief Simon Rothery, who is helping broker the share
sale, denied 'mum and dad' retail investors would be priced out of the
prospectus.

"The JLMs (joint lead managers) have done pre-offer research and got feedback
from the institutions on the back of that research and the price range is set
within those boundaries," he said. "In terms of both private health insurance
stocks and health sector stocks, we think the range setting for Medibank is
indicative of the sector."

Mr Savvides has said slashing management costs and reining in the amount
Medibank pays out to healthcare providers are two key ways he will boost
earnings for investors who buy into the insurer's $4 billion-plus float.

The prospectus showed the insurer has already made some progress on its margins.

Medibank increased its operating profit margin from each $1 of premium revenue
to 4.4Â¢ in the 2014 financial year, from 3.7Â¢ in the previous year. It also
cut the cost of administering policies to 9.2Â¢ in the dollar in the year ended
June 30, from 9.6Â¢ in the year prior. Both measures are predicted to improve
further in the 2015 year, forecasts made in the prospectus showed.

Fund managers said Medibank's ability to boost earnings by lowering its costs
made it an attractive investment.

Andy Gracey, a fund manager at Australian Ethical Investment, said investors
would be factoring cost savings in to the market price, especially as Medibank
moves from government to private ownership.

"The margins that Medibank Private earns against peers are low, so people can
see efficiencies in taking costs out of the business," Mr Gracey said.

The indicative share price range suggests a market value of between $4.3 billion
and $5.5 billion, which would make Medibank one of the market's top 100 largest
companies and the biggest government privatisation since Telstra.

The valuation suggests a price that is equivalent to 16.5 to 21.3 times forward
earnings. The multiple is used to determine how expensive a company is compared
with its peers.

The market's only listed insurer, nib, trades on a multiple of about 18 times
forward earnings.

Hugh Dive, a fund manager at Philo Capital, said improvements were available for
Medibank's margins that "could be very beneficial for investors". Medibank
shareholders will get a fully franked dividend for the seven months to June 30,
2015 of 4.9Â¢ a share, the prospectus shows.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Finance Minister Mathias Cormann and Medibank managing director
George Savvides. Photo: Luis Ascui

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            January 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 CITY-D Edition

When a health insurer says it won't pay;
Ethicists and economists say a 17-year-old girl's case points up complex
questions on rationing resources.

BYLINE: By Stacey Burling; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; P-com Biz; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1266 words


Somebody has to say no.

The question of who should say it and how is, in the medical world, the stuff of
epic ethical battles, the elephant in the room in any discussion of health
reform.

That a for-profit health insurance company - Philadelphia-based Cigna Corp. -
said no last month to a dying 17-year-old girl in California, then changed its
mind after bad publicity, has made for a compelling, highly emotional story.
Mark Geragos, the attorney for the girl's parents, and presidential candidate
John Edwards have blamed Cigna for her death.

But health-care ethicists and economists say it is not that simple. Nataline
Sarkisyan's case raises complex questions about how we ration resources - money
and, in this case, transplantable livers - and how we make medical decisions in
what one ethicist called "last-chance" situations. While doctors are the experts
on medical care, ethicists said, insurance companies have a responsibility to
steward subscribers' money.

"No health-care system could provide everybody with everything they want," said
Mary Ann Bailey, a health economist and bioethicist at the Hastings Center.

The case also illustrates how the payment battleground has shifted, said Mark
Pauly, a health economist at the Wharton School. In the past, most disputes
between patients or medical providers and insurance companies were about
contract language, he said. Now, they are more likely to be about whether there
is science to support a treatment. "I think the trend," Pauly said, "has
definitely been to move everything in health care, including health insurance,
more toward an evidence base."

Evidence or not, ethicists said patients would not trust insurers unless they
were up-front about how they made decisions, because everyone knows they save
money when they say no. And the amount of money some of them save works against
them in the quest for public sympathy. Cigna expects to make $1.2 billion this
year. Its CEO's total compensation in 2006 was $21 million.

People tend to see this kind of dispute as "bean counters vs. human caring,"
said James Sabin, a Harvard University professor who is director of Harvard
Pilgrim Health Care's ethics program. "You know, who's going to side with the
bean counters?"

But doctors are fallible. Several ethicists pointed out that, in the '90s, many
insurers gave in to pressure to cover bone-marrow transplants for women with
breast cancer. The treatment ultimately proved unsuccessful.

Sarkisyan's liver failed after she received a bone-marrow transplant for
leukemia. Her doctors at UCLA Medical Center argued that a liver transplant
would give a 65 percent chance of surviving six months. Cigna initially said it
would not pay for the transplant, sparking protests. After consulting with
outside doctors, the company changed its mind, it said, out of "empathy," even
though it still thought the treatment was "unproven and ineffective." Sarkisyan
died the day Cigna relented.

Geragos has said the hospital turned down two livers for the girl while waiting
for Cigna's approval. UCLA and Cigna have both said they could not discuss the
case because of privacy protections.

Jeffrey Kang, Cigna's medical director, said outside experts determined that a
liver transplant likely would not help Sarkisyan. Transplant doctors' guidelines
oppose giving organs to patients with other medical problems that would likely
severely limit their survival. "There is no insurance system . . . that would
have covered this," Kang said.

Asked whether doctors or insurance company employees should make treatment
decisions, Kang said Cigna did not decide whether she should have a transplant.
"All we do is make a decision as to whether or not it is covered by the
employer's medical plan," he said.

Cigna never argued that it refused to pay for the transplant because it was
expensive, though its critics did. Cigna said paying for the transplant would
have been the responsibility of Sarkisyan's father's employer, a self-insured
company for which Cigna managed claims and coverage. Cigna ultimately
volunteered to pay the bill itself.

There is no denying that liver transplants are big-ticket procedures. The
charges for a liver transplant and a year of follow-up treatment totaled nearly
$450,000 in 2005, according to Milliman USA. Insurers generally negotiate
discounted rates.

Given the estimate of Sarkisyan's chances of survival and the long list of
patients needing livers, Bailey said she was surprised Sarkisyan would be
considered a good transplant candidate. She also said she thought Cigna's
reversal of its decision confused subscribers.

"They should have made up their minds and stuck with it," she said. Deciding
later to cover the transplant was a "very bizarre thing to do," she added, and
it leaves subscribers feeling "there is no systematic way of doing things."

Asked to explain the reversal, Kang said: "We can't comment on the unusual
circumstances here that caused us to make, in essence, a charitable contribution
if UCLA would not proceed with this without a payment source."

Haavi Morreim, an ethicist at the University of Tennessee Health Sciences
Center, said cases like Sarkisyan's were so rare that it was difficult to amass
adequate evidence on which treatments would work. Because there are not many
other subscribers in the same position, a decision to pay for a new treatment
also will not set an expensive precedent.

Arthur Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of
Pennsylvania, said there was still no escaping emotion as a factor in U.S.
medicine.

People here put tremendous effort, he said, into saving trapped miners, little
girls in wells, hikers stranded on frigid mountains.

"Americans are interested in spending money on things that work," he said, "but
we are also a society that does value rescue."

And, he said, people want to go the extra mile for children.
"Seventeen-year-olds and younger have special moral status," he said. "They're
seen as people who, I'll just say it bluntly, deserve more."

He said he thought insurers should factor the U.S. penchant for rescue into
their budgets, or the rest of us should figure out another way to finance care
for people in desperate straits.

In his blog, Sabin criticized Edwards for capitalizing on the Sarkisyans'
tragedy and presenting the denial as a "moral crime." It is reasonable to argue
whether the facts justified a denial, he said, but "health-care limits,
well-set, are an ethical necessity, not a moral abomination."

He said he thought the scientific bar for covering "promising but unproven"
treatments should be lower for dying patients who have no other treatment
alternatives. But he also said he thought that patients' doctors, whose "bias is
and should be full-court press," are not the best people to make payment
decisions.

Instead, insurance companies need to develop fair systems that take into account
the needs of the individual, the evidence supporting a treatment, and the needs
of the broader population served by the insurer. He liked one company's
approach: Only independent outside experts could deny care. For credibility,
Sabin said, those experts must be named. "You want the experts to have their
name on the line," he said.

Kang, who wouldn't name the outside experts Cigna used to review the Sarkisyan
case, said he believed doctors preferred to shun the limelight. "Being able to
do this anonymously," he said, "allows people to give as objective a decision as
they're able to without fear of retribution."

Contact staff writer Stacey Burling at 215-854-4944 or sburling@phillynews.com.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: Feed Loader

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                       March 13, 2017 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Principal Again Named One of the World's Most Ethical Companies

LENGTH: 468  words


March 13 -- For the seventh time, Principal Financial Group is one of the
World's Most Ethical Companies. Principal is one of only 124 companies globally
chosen by Ethisphere Institute for this recognition.

The program honors companies that excel in three areas - promoting ethical
business standards and practices internally, enabling managers and employees to
make good choices, and shaping future industry standards by introducing
tomorrow's best practices today.

"We continually reinforce the importance of innovation, collaboration, and
taking action," said Dan Houston, president, chairman and CEO of Principal. "All
of those help drive better solutions for our customers around the globe."

This is the eleventh year Ethisphere has honored companies who recognize their
role in society to influence and drive positive change, consider the impact of
their actions on their employees, investors, customers and other key
stakeholders and use their values and culture as an underpinning to the
decisions they make every day.

"Over the last eleven years we have seen the shift in societal expectations,
constant redefinition of laws and regulations and the geo-political climate. We
have also seen how companies honored as the World's Most Ethical respond to
these challenges. They invest in their local communities around the world,
embrace strategies of diversity and inclusion, and focus on long term-ism as a
sustainable business advantage," explained Ethisphere's Chief Executive Officer,
Timothy Erblich. "Congratulations to everyone at Principal for being recognized
as a World's Most Ethical Company."

Methodology & scoring

The World's Most Ethical Company assessment is based upon the Ethisphere
Institute's Ethics Quotient (EQ) framework which offers a quantitative way to
assess a company's performance in an objective, consistent and standardized way.
The information collected provides a comprehensive sampling of definitive
criteria of core competencies, rather than all aspects of corporate governance,
risk, sustainability, compliance and ethics.

Scores are generated in five key categories: ethics and compliance program
(35%), corporate citizenship and responsibility (20%), culture of ethics (20%),
governance (15%) and leadership, innovation and reputation (10%) and provided to
all companies who participate in the process.

Honorees

The full list of the 2017 World's Most Ethical Companies can be found at
http://worldsmostethicalcompanies.ethisphere.com/honorees/.

Best practices and insights from the 2017 honorees will be released in a series
of infographics and research throughout the year (view or download the 2016
insights). Organizations interested in how they compare to the World's Most
Ethical Companies are invited to participate in the Ethics Quotient.

Source: Principal Financial Group

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             April 27, 1982 Tuesday

Control, not cash, called MD issue

BYLINE: Walter Fox; GAM

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: Toronto ONT


The great professional rip-off continues.

In a carefully worked out publicity campaign, the Ontario Government
 has created a situation which must ultimately destroy the professional
 aspects of medicine in Ontario.

The essence of the Government campaign is to create a scenario where
 the issue seems to be money-hungry doctors versus politicians who are
 defending the provincial treasury. The campaign works because it is
 received and orchestrated by the media, which have not carefully examined
 their own professional responsibility and possible conflicts of interest.

Most writers, broadcasters, reporters and editors consider themselves
 professionals and to some extent must identify with the doctors, despite
 the fact that some doctors would claim their professional responsibility
 to their patients is of a different order than, say, a reporter's
 responsibility to his readers. Both doctors and reporters must recognize
 that they have professional obligations that raise ethical and moral
 questions and make their work more than just getting the story and
 collecting a pay cheque or prescribing the drug and billing OHIP.

The general public, which is not made up of professionals, wants
 individualized, personal, professional, ethical and responsible service
 and hopes to pay for it on some kind of negotiated hourly rate. The rate,
 of course, is to be fixed by some arbitrary process unrelated to
 performance and will automatically punish those who provide high quality
 individualized service. It will instead reward mediocrity and volume.

The real problem is not the dollar amounts of doctors' incomes, but who
 decides and controls those incomes. As soon as the politicians declared
 that doctors' incomes would be totally regulated by them and would bear no
 relation to the quality of medicine delivered, medicine died as a
 professional discipline and we all lost.

If a professional's income is not directly linked to his performance,
 he may as well be working on an assembly line, turning one bolt after
 another. At least the blue collar worker, if his income depends on factors
 unrelated to his performance, does not have the awesome responsibility
 that doctors carry.

Responsibility without power is the classic definition of stress. Ask
 any doctor if he feels the stress.

Walter Fox    Toronto

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1982 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Deming Headlight (New Mexico)

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday

Roots of Congress' unpopularity

BYLINE: For the Headlight

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 901 words


I suppose it's possible that Congress could enjoy even less popularity than it
does at the moment, but it's difficult to imagine. Recent public opinion polls
show it plumbing depths that have rarely been seen before.

Certainly that's true of a survey just conducted by the Center on Congress at
Indiana University, which I direct. Every year, we measure national public
opinion about Congress in an effort to gauge how relevant it is to Americans'
lives and whether they feel it's living up to the Framers' expectation that it
serve as "the people's branch" of the federal government. This year, a
jaw-dropping 84 percent of those we surveyed said they disapprove of the job
Congress is doing.

If this were all the survey had found, it would be bad enough. But Americans
consistently grade Congress at a D or worse on such fundamental measures as
whether it is dealing with key issues facing the country, keeping excessive
partisanship in check, holding its members to high ethical standards, and
controlling the influence of special interests.

Even worse, when asked, "What do you think is the main thing that influences
what members of Congress do in office," an abysmal 84 percent believe that
either "personal interest" or "special interests" drive congressional action.
Very few people, in other words, believe that members of Congress have the best
interests of the country, or even of their constituents, at heart.

This may be why proposals like the "Congressional Reform Act of 2011," a set of
suggestions for stripping members of Congress of alleged perquisites, have
enjoyed such popularity in online forums. Parts of the proposal are based on
misleading or outdated information - contrary to the text circulating on the
Web, members of Congress do pay Social Security taxes, for instance; and their
pensions are generous but not outlandish, averaging $36,732 a year for those who
pay into the federal retirement fund that has existed since 1984.

Nonetheless, the perception that members enjoy benefits unavailable to ordinary
Americans is widespread, and occasionally right. For instance, while members of
Congress participate in a health-insurance program similar to other federal
employees mainly for their families, they also have free or very modest cost
access to care in the Capitol, including annual physical exams, and to superb
outpatient care and other services at military hospitals like Bethesda Naval
Hospital.

So congressional reform initiatives that take aim at legitimate issues ought to
have a place at the table; especially in tough times, it's important for
Congress not to appear to be getting special breaks at the taxpayer's expense.

Still, in the end these fixes are not the most important issue.

The more fundamental questions have to do with how Congress behaves. Ordinary
citizens believe that members of Congress pay close attention to special
interests because, in fact, they do. There's a widespread belief that Capitol
Hill protects its own when it comes to ethical transgressions because there has
been far too great a reluctance to pursue misbehavior aggressively.

People are tired of partisan gamesmanship because, quite simply, there's been
too much of it. Voters feel ignored -- or at least unheard -- because for all
the efforts members of Congress put into communicating with their constituents,
so much of their time is spent with donors, party activists, and like-minded
supporters that the multitude of their constituents' concerns can go
unappreciated, and their legislative duties are neglected.

There are remedies for all of these issues, from beefing up ethics enforcement,
to strengthening lobby limits and disclosure laws, to recognizing that
partisanship and the narrow political bases that feed it have created a true
crisis of confidence in our representative system. Congress has it within its
own power to reverse its dangerous fall in the public's estimation.

But the American people, too, have a role to play. Looking at the shifts in
congressional standing over a period of decades, a trio of political scientists
-- the late Robert Durr of Washington University, John Gilmour of William &
Mary, and Christina Wolbrecht of Notre Dame -- came to a startling conclusion a
number of years ago: that Congress often suffers for doing what it's supposed to
do.

"As the representatives of a diverse and heterogeneous country, members seldom
find themselves in agreement," they wrote. "To the public, then, the very
activities which characterize Congress and the legislative process -
deliberation, debate, and decision making - cause it to appear quarrelsome,
unproductive, and controversial, and thus diminish it in the public eye."

The poll findings by the Center on Congress and others clearly ought to alarm
congressional leaders and encourage them to look deeply at their institution's
behavior. But they also should serve as a spur to ordinary citizens not to write
Congress off, but to seek to understand it better, take aim at the fundamental
problems, and avoid deriding Congress for doing what it was set up to do:
debate, deliberate, and make decisions for a diverse and often contentious
nation.

Lee Hamilton is Director of the Center on Congress at Indiana University. He was
a member of the U.S. House of Representatives for 34 years. Hamilton writes
regularly about Congress and what individuals can do to make our representative
democracy work better.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2011 Deming Headlight, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             May 17, 1990 Thursday

ABORTIONS COST TAXPAYERS $7M, COMMISSION TOLD

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: GUBBY R

LENGTH: 384 words


Abortions cost taxpayers $7m, says commission By RACHEL GUBBY MORE than $7
million of taxpayers money funded 66,420 abortions last year, the Health
Insurance Commission said yesterday. Medicare rebates were paid at an average
rate of $20,000 a day to 66,420 women who had abortions in 1989. The Right To
Life Association Queensland vice-president, Mrs Winifred Egan, said it was
scandalous that taxpayers who did not condone abortions were being forced to
fund them. ""It is outrageous that tax dollars are funding the killing of
Australians _ especially when there is no Government funding for the removal of
sun spots," Mrs Egan said. ""There is no justification for abortion in most
cases. Only about two abortions a year are done to save the life of the mother.
""The amount of money spent on funding this killing could be far better used to
help in the treatment of women with genuinely difficult pregnancies." Mrs Egan
said Australians had never been asked whether or not they wanted to fund
abortions. She said taxpayers also had no idea how much of their money was spent
on funding abortions in public hospitals. ""If abortion is decriminalised in the
new criminal code, the number of abortions will increase dramatically and so
will the cost to the taxpayer," she said. Mrs Egan said the actual number of
abortions performed in Australia last year was about 200,000 _ three times the
number claimed on Medicare. Dr Peter Bayliss, who runs a Brisbane abortion
clinic, said 150 doctors in Queensland performed ""therapeutic terminations". Dr
Bayliss, who would not disclose the number of abortions he performed last year,
said there were ""many more therapeutic terminations performed than the Health
Commission figures showed". He said it would be impossible to tell how many were
carried out. A Health Insurance Commission spokesman said the Medicare rebate
for an abortion was about $275. This figure included operation, anaesthetic,
blood test and pregnancy test costs. A spokeswoman for the Federal Health
Minister, Mr Howe, said the legal and ethical responsibility for determining
medical expenses lay with doctors, working within the laws of each State. She
said the Federal Government allocated $12.14 million to fund the Family Planning
Association in 1989-90.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              399 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

               September 15, 1991, Sunday, SUNDAY SECOND EDITION

Should bad genes rob you of life or health insurance? Rapid progress in
identifying genes that predispose people to hereditary diseases is starting to
raise a major ethical dilemma

BYLINE: By Catherine Arnst REUTERS NEWS AGENCY

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 832 words

DATELINE: LONDON


   LONDON - Should insurance companies be allowed to insist on genetic screening
before issuing life or medical coverage?

The question is fast moving out of the hypothetical into the real world as
scientists identify more and more genes that cause hereditary disease. And the
issue is arousing deep ethical misgivings.

Trigger-genes that predispose people to about 4,000 diseases from cystic
fibrosis to alcoholism are already known. It is a relatively short step to
devise blood tests to show whether an individual - or an unborn offspring - is
likely to get such a disease.

Doctors report that some big companies in North America and Europe already use
genetic screening to weed out job applicants who have high disease risks, and
say it is only the next step for insurance companies to follow suit.

Life insurance firms in Holland introduced guidelines on genetic screening last
year, but were challenged by the European Parliament. The European Commission is
now studying the issue.

Britain's leading medical ethicist, Baroness Mary Warnock, who helped shape
legislation on embryo research, recently caused a flurry of public interest by
calling for legal safeguards to stop compulsory testing.

"Insurance companies will demand a genetic printout as now they demand a medical
examination, and the result will be that people and their families will be
compelled to discover things that they would have preferred not to know," she
told an international meeting of geneticists in London.

"The problems that are likely to arise are not medical, but political and
social."

Such public pressure led Britain's Nuffield Foundation for medical ethics to
agree to discuss genetic screening for the first time at a meeting later this
month.

California is already moving to pre-empt genetic screening. The state
legislature is expected to pass the first bill in the world that would
specifically ban the use of genetic information to discriminate in selling
health insurance.

The state's insurance companies dropped their initial opposition because the ban
will be in place for only eight years and most insurers do not expect to use
large-scale genetic screening before then.

But the issue will loom large when the ban expires due to the rapid progress of
a huge international effort to identify all the genes that make up a human
being.

There are more than 100,000 human genes and only 2,000 have been identified to
date. But scientists expect all will be mapped by the target date of 2006.

Those already identified are among the most important in terms of genetically
based disorders. Scientists know the genetic trigger of cystic fibrosis,
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Down syndrome, Marfan syndrome (a congenital heart
condition that affects the aorta) and inherited blindness, among others.

Blood tests are available for some diseases, giving people the choice of being
tested or having the fetus tested.

Expectant parents can already determine if their children will be born with Down
syndrome. Many who find they will, have chosen abortion, but they may be less
likely to end a pregnancy if they learn that the child is fated to develop
Alzheimer's disease (premature senility) by the age of 60.

But some scientists fear the choice will be forced on parents by their insurer,
in the name of assessing risk.

Ethicists fear a future in which insurers could demand that parents have
prenatal testing, and then deny coverage to any child found to have a
"pre-existing condition" in the womb. Or worse, deny coverage even before a
pregnancy occurs if one of the parents carries a deadly gene.

Insurance dilemmas could also arise from many diseases that have a genetic
factor but are also influenced by environmental and other factors, such as
cancer, heart disease, schizophrenia and alcoholism.

Should the presence of the gene alone bar a person from standard insurance
rates?

There are other ethical issues.

What if parents insist on having children despite known and serious genetic
defects? Posing that question, William Alexander, vice-president of Cologne Life
Reinsurance Co., asked further:

"Does this couple have the 'right' to produce 10 children afflicted with cystic
fibrosis and then demand the state (or private insurers) provide the best of
care for them until they die?

"These are tough questions," Alexander said in a series of articles written for
the industry last year.

David Purchase, deputy chief actuary of Sun Life Assurance, in a recent letter
to the Financial Times newspaper, said banning genetic testing by life insurance
companies could leave the system open to abuse.

He gave an example of a person who knows he is at high risk but hides the
information and takes out an insurance policy for $400,000 rather than the
standard $85,000.

"The community - here the remaining policyholders - are paying not only for the
higher risk but paying for it fivefold."genetics; health; insurance; ethics

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              400 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 28, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

When It Comes to Health, Remember the Children

SECTION: Section 3;  Page 34;  Column 1;  Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 250 words


To the Editor:

"A Double Standard in Health Coverage" (March 17) was on the mark, but it did
not discuss how the differences in health coverage between company executives
and rank-and-file workers affect the nation's children.

We tend to think of health coverage as being for executives and/or for employees
without noticing that their children's health benefits reflect the same
inequities. This raises ethical issues. While one might defend the different
levels of health coverage for the highly paid, sought-after executive versus the
assembly-line worker, how can anyone defend the different levels of coverage for
the dependent children of these adults?

Children do not negotiate their health coverage. They are not free to switch
jobs if they don't like their coverage, and they can't switch parents.

It is time for all of us to demand universal health coverage as a right, not as
a perk for the privileged. As a first step, I suggest that we guarantee such
coverage to all dependent children, so we can say at least that all American
children have equal access to health care.

Many people will object that the cost of such a plan will be prohibitive. But I
ask them how much is it costing the nation now to deal with health problems that
might have been ameliorated or even prevented by adequate health care during
childhood?

"An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure," is not just a clever saying.
It's true.

JOHN McDONAGH
Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., March 18

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              401 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    November 7, 1991, Thursday, City Edition

The voters have spoken A wake-up call

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 1027 words



Pennsylvania voters have spoken, and morning finally has broken for Democrats
and their 1992 presidential hopefuls. The outcome in the U.S. Senate race
Democrat Harris Wofford, the political neophyte, upset Republican Dick
Thornburgh, the political heavyweight is the closest thing so far to a voter
referendum on the Bush administration's neglect of domestic concerns. It has
focused next year's political debate squarely on the issues where Bush may be
most vulnerable.

    Pennsylvania's economy is deep in recession. People are worried about their
economic future. They want President Bush to stay home and give as much
attention to domestic problems as he has to foreign policy. They want jobs, and
if jobs are not available, they want expanded unemployment benefits. They are
concerned about health care, education and the direction of the country.

 8    Democratic presidential candidates are beginning to feel like Rocky
Balboa. Suddenly, their presidential nomination is worth more than Confederate
money. The Wofford victory has convinced Democrats they have the right message
even if they haven't yet found the right messenger. Wofford, a former Peace
Corps director who was appointed six months ago to the Senate seat left vacant
by the death of Republican John Heinz, campaigned on such issues as national
health insurance (Bob Kerrey's issue), economic populism (Tom Harkin's), putting
America first (Douglas Wilder's) and  education (Bill Clinton's).

    These are strong Democratic issues. But the Wofford-Thornburgh race may not
be as clean a referendum on those issues as some might think. There were
indications that voters also were venting disgust and anger with Washington
politicians and the lack of leadership on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue.
Although he was the incumbent, Wofford ran as an outsider and linked Thornburgh,
a former two-term governor who served as Bush's attorney general, to the
president's policies and to the mess in Washington.

    While savoring Pennsylvania, Democrats should not overlook what happened
next door in New Jersey. Democratic Gov. James Florio, whose name was not on the
ballot, had urged voters to send Bush a message. Instead, the voters, angered
over hefty tax increases, turned on Democrats with a vengeance. Republicans won
control of the state senate and the assembly for the first time in 20 years.

    That and the election of a Republican governor in Mississippi were Bush's
only consolation as he left Wednesday for Rome to attend a NATO meeting. Before
leaving Washington, he canceled plans for a two-week trip to Asia early next
year. He also promised to "try even harder" to repair the economy and to expand
jobless benefits and health insurance. Sounds like Pennsylvania voters got his
attention.

 Facing the reality of death . . .


   Washington state voters Tuesday became the first in the world to speak
formally on the issue of euthanasia. They barely rejected a trailblazing "death
with dignity" initiative that would have legally sanctioned physician-assisted
suicide for dying patients. The whole world was watching, especially Florida,
Oregon, California and Washington, D.C., where similar proposals are pending.

    The campaign was open, intense, gut-wrenching and troubling.  Yet it was
sorely needed, because public squeamishness has relegated those suffering from
terminal illness or interminable pain to an ethical limbo that only increases
their suffering.

    It's not clear whether the bill itself was accorded the death with dignity
it sought to institutionalize: Strong feelings produced troubling rhetoric on
both sides. Some proponents charged that distortions and misrepresentations
caused the initiative's defeat; but that too easily dismisses the legitimate
concerns raised about a new class of legalized killing and where it might lead.
In turn, some opponents branded the measure legalized murder, when clearly the
medical circumstances the bill tried to address were unique and tragic.

    Those problems won't go away, and that's why Initiative 119 was the
beginning, not the end, of a public dialogue over a very troubling ethical
issue. We can only hope that it will not degenerate into the rancor and
distortion that now characterize the discussion of abortion.
 . . . And preserving the right to run


   In analyzing Washington state's election results, career politicians who
oppose term limitations should observe the same caveat as should opponents of
euthanasia: Don't breathe a collective sigh of relief just yet.

    Voters defeated a much-watched initiative that would have imposed strict
limits on terms of office for state and federal officials, but not because
throwing the rascals out has lost its appeal. More likely, the proposal was
simply too sweeping for Washington's special case: It would have cost the state
the speakership held by Rep. Tom Foley, and giving up that much hard-won clout
in Congress is too much to ask of even the most selfless electorate. Such
dilemmas, of course, are precisely what is wrong with the concept of term
limitations.

    Even so, the measure mustered 46 percent support, and weaker limits were
upheld the same day in Cincinnati, Houston and Worcester, Mass. That, and the
general drubbing dished out to incumbents across the country Tuesday, should be
the strongest warning yet that voters are fed up with politics as usual. They
want good management and good leadership instead of the steady diet of
self-serving, sleaze, dirty-dealing and general incompetence they're now
getting.

    Term limitation remains a shortsighted idea, an illusory quick fix, an
abdication of responsibility by an electorate too lazy to learn enough to vote
intelligently. But with as many as 21 states facing term-limitation initiatives,
including Florida, a quick fix is precisely what we'll get if politicians don't
clean up their act voluntarily.

    Above all, they must restructure election laws to remove the outrageous
advantages of incumbency that lead to a re-election rate of 96 percent.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, Clay
Bennett; Pennsylvania Sen. Harris Wofford and Sen. Charles Robb, D-Va., meet
with reporters in Washington Wednesday to discuss Wofford's victory in the
elections; Two signs on the highway, one points to the real world, the other to
Washington D.C

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              402 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Medibank's $2 share price cap;
Floats - Retail investor guarantee

BYLINE: Jessica Gardner, Georgia Wilkins with AAP

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 534 words


Retail investors will pay no more than $2 a share for a piece of Medibank
Private when it floats in November.

The pricing was revealed alongside other key details of the federal government's
$4 billion-plus sale of the health insurer released in a prospectus on Monday.

Finance Minister Mathias Cormann said the IPO would include a price cap of $2 a
share for retail investors, even if the final price comes in above the
indicative range of $1.55 to $2.

The cap will apply to the first $250,000 allocated to individual applicants
under the retail offer.

Just over 750,000 Australians have pre-registered for the Medibank float.

Medibank Private managing director George Savvides and advisers from the three
investment banks marketing the float will begin meeting with fund managers on a
roadshow this week.

Goldman Sachs Australia chief Simon Rothery, who is helping broker the share
sale, denied 'mum and dad' retail investors would be priced out of the
prospectus.

"The JLMs (joint lead managers) have done pre-offer research and got feedback
from the institutions on the back of that research and the price range is set
within those boundaries," he said. "In terms of both private health insurance
stocks and health sector stocks, we think the range setting for Medibank is
indicative of the sector."

Mr Savvides has said slashing management costs and reining in the amount
Medibank pays out to healthcare providers are two key ways he will boost
earnings for investors who buy into the insurer's $4 billion-plus float.

The prospectus showed the insurer has already made some progress on its margins.

Medibank increased its operating profit margin from each $1 of premium revenue
to 4.4Â¢ in the 2014 financial year, from 3.7Â¢ in the previous year. It also
cut the cost of administering policies to 9.2Â¢ in the dollar in the year ended
June 30, from 9.6Â¢ in the year prior. Both measures are predicted to improve
further in the 2015 year, forecasts made in the prospectus showed.

Fund managers said Medibank's ability to boost earnings by lowering its costs
made it an attractive investment.

Andy Gracey, a fund manager at Australian Ethical Investment, said investors
would be factoring cost savings in to the market price, especially as Medibank
moves from government to private ownership.

"The margins that Medibank Private earns against peers are low, so people can
see efficiencies in taking costs out of the business," Mr Gracey said.

The indicative share price range suggests a market value of between $4.3 billion
and $5.5 billion, which would make Medibank one of the market's top 100 largest
companies and the biggest government privatisation since Telstra.

The valuation suggests a price that is equivalent to 16.5 to 21.3 times forward
earnings. The multiple is used to determine how expensive a company is compared
with its peers.

The market's only listed insurer, nib, trades on a multiple of about 18 times
forward earnings.

Hugh Dive, a fund manager at Philo Capital, said improvements were available for
Medibank's margins that "could be very beneficial for investors". Medibank
shareholders will get a fully franked dividend for the seven months to June 30,
2015 of 4.9Â¢ a share, the prospectus shows.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Finance Minister Mathias Cormann and Medibank managing director
George Savvides. Photo: Luis Ascui

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            April 27, 1978 Thursday

'I have erred in many ways' in obtaining data   from hospitals for adjusters,
doctor testifies

BYLINE: Thomas Claridge; GAM

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: Toronto ON


By THOMAS CLARIDGE
  A doctor employed by the Ontario Health Insurance Plan testified
 yesterday that on six to 12 occasions over a 10-year period he developed
 information on accident victims for insurance adjusters in the knowledge
 he was doing so without the victims' consent.

Acknowledging that his action was in conflict with a doctor's ethical
 responsibility to keep information on a patient in confidence, Dr. John
 McGee Porter told the Royal Commission on Confidentiality of Health
 Records: I frankly admit that from time to time I have erred in my
 ways.

Dr. Porter said that on some occasions he got the information by
 calling other doctors. At other times, he went to hospitals, donned a lab
 coat and then examined X-rays and medical records.

He said that in some instances it was possible to walk into a
 hospital, check the records and walk out without anyone knowing you were
 there.

On other occasions, he had been able to walk in, take X-rays out of a
 rack and look at them.

The doctor said procedures were more lax in some hospitals than in
 others. In at least two, Toronto General and North York Branson, he said,
 patients' X-rays were housed in boxes or filing cabinets along a
 corridor, with a viewing apparatus beside them.

Dr. Porter said that at Branson X-rays were basically under the
 control of no one until the patient in question left the hospital. Then
 they were placed in a room, but he had been able to gain access to them
 simply by identifying himself as Dr. Porter.

The doctor said clinical records of patients are readily available at
 nursing stations in Branson and other large hospitals.

Asked by Commission Counsel Harvey Strosberg whether he wore a lab
 coat while examining the records, Dr. Porter said he did at times.

Describing procedures in several Metro hospitals, the witness said
 X-ray security at teaching hospitals was generally pretty tight and at
 York-Finch Hospital X-rays were retained under fairly adequate control.
 At Toronto Western, the discharge area was inviolate.

He said he could remember asking for a patient's X- ray at Queensway
 Hospital and getting it, and at St. Joseph's Hospital X-rays had been
 made available, but protection of clinical records was excellent.

He was questioned at length concerning reports he prepared for
 adjuster John Pinkerton on a Buffalo couple injured in a car crash near
 Lindsay.

Dr. Porter said he couldn't specifically recall Mr. Pinkerton's having
 told him consent to examine the couple's records had been refused, but
 from other things that were said I was led to that belief.

He said that on or about Nov. 17, 1974, he entered Toronto General
 Hospital and went to a nurse's station where he spent 10 or 15 minutes
 examining the files of the young couple, identified at the commission
 hearings only as Mr. and Mrs. Z, and making notes for his report to Mr.
 Pinkerton.

The reports confirmed the adjuster's belief that the husband had been
 paralyzed below the waist and the severity of the spinal injury was such
 that his life expectancy had been shortened.

Asked by Mr. Strosberg why he had taken the assignment from Mr.
 Pinkerton, Dr. Porter said he had decided it was a very serious
 situation; I had to decide whether or not Mr. Z was paralyzed.

Mr. Strosberg asked, What possible justification was there for you to
 impose yourself into this situation?
    When no answer came immediately, the commission lawyer answered his
 own question.

You did it for the money, he suggested.

The witness at first objected and then agreed that the fees for his
 service - $100 for the report on Mr. Z, $35 for the one on Mrs. Z - had
 been a factor.

When the witness said he had never really put money at the top of the
 list for anything, Commissioner Horace Krever said he was inclined to
 agree.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1978 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                         Arizona Health Insurance Quote

                            14715 Pacific Ave S #602
                               Tacoma,  WA 98444
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.arizona-health-insurance-quote.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Arizona Health Insurance Quote.com is a small dedicated group of health
insurance industry professionals based in Tacoma, Washington who formed in 2004
with the sole purpose of taking the confusion out of finding great coverage for
medical, dental, prescriptions, and hospitalization benefits. We here at
AffordableMedicalDental.com have researched many of the top medical benefit
organizations and health insurance companies in the nation and have many options
available to meet your needs. We are independent agents with creative solutions
and we are here to help you get what you need at a price you can afford. All of
our agents must maintain the absolute highest in ethical standards for our
customers and the companies that we represent. We are here to earn your business
and your trust. By utilizing the latest in internet technology for web
conferencing and telecommunications for doing business over the internet, we are
able to show you exactly what your plan will cover and what it will cost in a
fast and secure manner. We are not just here for the one time sale. We are here
for the long haul to help you with whatever your life and health insurance needs
are for today and the future, and to make the whole process as simple as
possible for you. Click on an agent's picture to visit their bio page.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              405 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Contra Costa Times (California)

                            October 16, 2005 Sunday

U.S. standards could be raised;
RANDY COHEN: THE ETHICIST

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. F4

LENGTH: 532 words


Q: I have an employee with no health insurance -- he opted out of our company
plan -- with a wife and children who rely on his income. He has been loyal and
productive. I have no bad things to say about him. Recently he was diagnosed
with cancer and will not be able to perform his job. Should I continue to pay
his salary even after he stops working? How should employers handle such
situations?

A: On the face of it, it is not your individual obligation to continue to pay a
person who cannot do his job, although it would be generous of you to do so.
There is another way, however, to look at this situation.

If your employee opted out of the health plan because it is too expensive or the
deductible too high, you should re-examine the plan. In addition, a more
generous leave policy would obviate your question. If one were in place, paid
time off would be an ailing employee's right, not an employer's ethical
conundrum.

Such programs do place a financial burden on employers, but it is one that
employers in many developed nations are able to bear. In France and Germany, for
example, according to Tom Geoghegan, an employment lawyer, situations like yours
are covered not just by taxpayers but also by employers.

The laws in other countries are not an invariable guide to right conduct -- as
our mothers chided us, "If Belgium jumped off the roof ..." -- but they can
reveal what many nations similar to ours regard as ethically necessary and
economically feasible. "If in most European democracies he'd be doing more by
law," Geoghegan says of any employer, "it's not morally acceptable to take
advantage of the lower standards here." This is a stern but not unreasonable way
to put it.

Sometimes it is what we do long before a moment of crisis that is most ethically
significant. And it is how we phrase the question that determines what we see as
our ethical obligation.

Update: This employee is no longer able to come to work. The employer pays him
to work from home a few days a week, but does not know what he will do if the
employee's condition worsens.

Q: A woman sitting near me in a local coffee shop asked me to watch her things
for a few minutes while she went across the street to her home. She said she
wouldn't leave anything valuable. She was gone for over an hour, returning as I
was about to ask someone else nearby to take over the surveillance and then
leave myself. Would I have been wrong to do so?

AYou were free to go after ... 10 minutes? Five minutes? It's hard to offer a
precise time, but certainly it's well under an hour.

Every promise includes assumptions, whether stated or not. When you accepted
sentry duty, the assumption was that even if something delayed this woman beyond
the "few minutes" she predicted, she would not be away for an unreasonably long
time -- for example, that she would not take a two-week vacation in Tuscany.

If you had left, you would have done well either to ask another patron to take
over, as you contemplated, or to leave this woman's stuff with one of the
clerks; the waiters are there as long as the place is open.

Randy Cohen's The Ethicist runs Sundays in A&E. E-mail him at
ethicist@nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 2005 Contra Costa Times (Walnut Creek, CA)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright (c) 2012 DePaul University
                               DePaul Law Review

                                  Spring, 2012

                               DePaul Law Review

                             61 DePaul L. Rev. 861

LENGTH: 3186 words

SYMPOSIUM: CHANGING CONCEPTIONS: EXPLORING THE MEDICAL AND LEGAL ADVANCES IN
FERTILITY PRESERVATION: TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL LAW REVIEW SYMPOSIUM: COMMENTARY:
CANCER, INFERTILITY, AND THE NARRATIVE OF PROGRESS

NAME: Sarah Rodriguez*

BIO: * I would like to thank Lisa Campo-Engelstein, Teresa Woodruff, and Linda
Emanuel for reading this Article in its various stages and Katie Watson for
helping me refocus it. I also want to thank those who commented on this
Commentary following a presentation of an earlier version at an American Society
of Bioethics and Humanities conference as well as at a symposium at the DePaul
University College of Law. Research was supported by the Oncofertility
Consortium grants (NIH 1 UL1 DE019587 and RL1HD058296) from the National
Institutes of Health. The content is solely that of the author.

TEXT:
 [*861]

   The four essays preceding this one each focused on aspects of the
increasingly diverse and complicated area of reproduction. As the concluding
essay in this Symposium Issue, I will weave these essays into my overview of
cancer funding in the United States and my critique of the "progress against
cancer" narrative.

   Three of the essays examine fertility preservation for cancer patients to
varying degrees, and so I will begin with the seeming outlier: Arshagouni's Be
Fruitful and Multiply, by Other Means, if Necessary: The Time Has Come to
Recognize and Enforce Gestational Surrogacy Agreements, which is not explicitly
about oncofertility. Rather, he argues for federal legalization of gestational
surrogacy. A gestational surrogate, he states, "provides a noble service that
should be respected and honored," and the fact that such an act is not honored
without "reservation" is, to Arshagouni, "mystifying." n1 Arshagouni lays out at
length the legal and moral arguments others have made against allowing
gestational surrogacy and makes his case for why each of them comes up short.
The compilation of studies he uses to illustrate that some of the fears of those
who argue against gestational surrogacy - such as the fear that it will be
detrimental to the child born in such a manner - are so far unfounded, and his
addressing many of the legal and ethical concerns contributes to a more robust
debate about this practice. But in his effort to illustrate that this form of
reproduction is not the harmful or risky endeavor as argued by others, he does
not address the possibility of harm or risk. Reproduction, in all its old and
more recent methods, is based within medical,  [*862]  legal, physiological,
social, familial, and economic understandings and relationships, making it an
inherently complicated and complex endeavor.

   Though gestational motherhood is a possible resource for some women who lose
both their fertility and their capacity to bear a child as a result of cancer
treatment, the remaining three essays all centrally concern fertility
preservation and cancer treatment. Because of changes in cancer treatment, many
people within (or before) their childbearing years who have cancer will either
be cured or have their lives significantly extended, and many within this
population are concerned about the impact their cancer treatments may have on
their future fertility. n2 The preservation of fertility for young people before
they undergo potentially infertility-inducing cancer treatments is a fairly
recent development for oncologists to consider. n3 Indeed, scientists are still
investigating many of the emerging options within the field of oncofertility, in
particular the options for women and girls not yet of reproductive age. These
include whole ovary and oocyte cryopreservation as well as the freezing of
ovarian tissue. For boys not yet of reproductive age, and thus unable to
cryopreserve semen, investigational options include the freezing of testicular
tissue. n4

   Health insurance itself is a relatively recent phenomenon, and even more
recent is the legal mandate that certain procedures be covered by private health
insurance. n5 One of these more recent, and far from universal, mandates is
coverage of assisted reproductive treatment by health insurance companies. In
her commentary, Campo-Engelstein argues for the need for an extension of
insurance coverage to include fertility preservation before cancer treatment as
part of routine care. n6  [*863]  To do so, she compares the loss of fertility
as part of cancer treatment with the loss of a breast for cancer treatment,
asserting that because insurance companies pay for breast replacement surgery
after cancer therapy, these companies should envision fertility preservation as
part of this routine of care in order to create consistency and fairness in
coverage.

   While Campo-Engelstein argues for fertility preservation as a matter of
fairness in insurance coverage for cancer patients, Cholst is concerned about
the lack of regulation concerning another assisted reproduction option for women
who have undergone cancer treatment: the use of donor oocytes. n7 Cholst,
speaking from the perspective of a clinician, is concerned that, while this form
of reproduction is viable, it lacks regulation - a concern for both the donor
and the recipient of the oocyte. She concludes, however, by noting that while
patients need support to adjust to their cancer diagnosis and progress through
their treatment, a "focus on technological solutions alone for quality-of-life
issues," such as the desire to parent, does not provide the patient with a full
perspective. n8

   In her article, Roberts, too, is concerned with the focus on technological
solutions. But while both Campo-Engelstein and Cholst touch upon the social
context of oncofertility, for Roberts, the underlying social structures of
injustice is central to any conversation about the ethics of oncofertility. n9 I
will return to Roberts at the end of this Commentary, and I am mindful of the
larger social concerns Roberts and others have brought to the fore about
fertility preservation, such as whether it reinforces the primacy of biological
parenthood. n10

   But what I want to question in the remainder of this Commentary is the
framing of fertility preservation technologies within the narrative of progress
against cancer. In their recent article, Pasquale Patrizio and Arthur Caplan
argue that on an individual patient level, so long as the standard of informed
consent - with particular attention to the pediatric patient - is met, there
should be no ethical issues in offering fertility preservation services to
cancer patients. n11 But they, as well many others who have discussed fertility
preservation, including the  [*864]  author, place the emergence of fertility
preservation technologies within the "progress against cancer" narrative. n12 Is
it really progress to be considering preserving the fertility of a young person
diagnosed with cancer nearly seventy-five years after the creation of the
National Cancer Institute and forty years after the "war on cancer" was
launched? Should we not primarily ask why a ten-year-old or twenty-five-year-old
is even getting cancer - with rates of some common childhood cancers increasing
- and what we should be doing to prevent this diagnosis? n13

   Cancer has a long history, but here I am concerned with the more recent
development of our cultural acceptance of it within a biomedical and individual
model: cancer is something we treat, either through surgery, chemotherapy,
radiation, or some combination rather than something we collectively prevent.
Beginning with the creation of the National Cancer Institute in 1937, the
foundation of the biomedical model of cancer was established, and, though
curtailed with the entrance of the United States in World War II, it rose again
with the influx of even more funding soon after the war's conclusion. n14 The
strong investment in science by the federal government during the war incited an
interest in the expansive possibilities of scientific research among Americans.
n15 The push to fund biomedical research grew out of this larger cultural hope
that the application of scientific knowledge could improve and lengthen lives;
this belief grew not just from the advances themselves, but also in the belief
in further advances and the unlimited possibilities of science. n16 This
economic investment, supported by cultural belief, in the potential of
scientific and medical research profoundly altered Americans' postwar health
expectations by reinforcing the conviction that advancing scientific progress
would  [*865]  easily translate into medical progress, thus preserving and
lengthening lives. Scientific developments created an impression of inevitable
progress, with illness and disability no longer viewed as inevitable parts of
life, but rather as problems to be overcome by scientific and medical advances.
Americans' belief in the unlimited potential of science and its resultant
medical advances was further influenced by dramatic changes in the social and
economic situation for many Americans, in particular a rise in the standard of
living. The combination of a higher standard of living and a belief in science
(as well as its clinical applications supporting a longer life) resulted in
Americans spending more on health care and a rise in the expectations of that
care. n17

   Private organizations such as the American Cancer Society and, increasingly
in more recent decades, the pharmaceutical industry also came to play a
significant role in funding, thus establishing and reinforcing the biomedical
model of cancer. Here, I simply note the increased funding allocated by the
federal government to this model as a force behind the model. n18 The U.S.
government greatly intensified the funding of biomedical cancer research as part
of the beginnings of a national medical research policy. n19 Following World War
II, the federal government dramatically amplified spending on cancer research:
in 1947, $ 14 million went to fund cancer research, and this grew to $ 110
million in 1961, increasing to more than $ 200 million in 1970. n20 In 1971,
Congress and President Richard Nixon declared a "war on cancer," resulting in
the federal government doubling the amount of biomedical research funding
directed at the disease within one year. Indeed, this war saw a vast amount of
money directed to the biomedical research of cancer: in 1973, $ 500 million was
allocated to the cancer research, then $ 600 million in 1974, with another $ 1.5
billion to be spent over the next three years. n21 More recently, from 2005
through 2010, the budget for the National Cancer Institute has averaged $ 4.9
billion annually. n22

   I am not questioning the spending of this money on biomedical research, the
resulting clinical advancements of which can be seen in the control of many
manifestations of cancer, including testicular cancer and leukemia. I am not
opposed to the biomedical model of cancer  [*866]  that focuses on the
individual. But this model developed, and is today reinforced, largely at the
expense of collective cancer prevention. And this is what I, following others
before me, am questioning. This is not to say that cancer prevention has been
absent. Indeed, prevention against cancer, with an emphasis on individual
responsibility, has remained a popular goal, though an elusive one, since the
beginning of the biomedical model of cancer. n23 In recent decades, increased
attention has been devoted to examining behavioral factors as well as to genetic
susceptibility to cancer. n24 With respect to some cancers this emphasis on
personal behavior has worked, most notably the tie between smoking and lung
cancer, just as it has in the case of early screening (such as with cervical
cancer) or with determining genetic factors (such as with certain forms of
breast cancer).

   But despite a growing emphasis on genetic risk and lifestyle factors, the
dominant model remains the biomedical approach to a diagnosed disease.
Activists, especially within the last two decades and in particular
environmental breast cancer activists, have begun questioning the dominant
biomedical model of addressing the disease after it develops and instead argue
for more attention paid to possible environmental factors as a means to prevent
the occurrence of cancer. n25 Clinicians and scientists have also recently
expressed concern about the effects of environmental factors; a recent
President's Cancer Panel report was centrally concerned that the "true burden of
environmentally induced cancer has been grossly underestimated." n26 Attention
to the possible environmental factors places the responsibility for dealing with
cancer not on individuals, but on the institutions responsible for exposure to
carcinogens in our homes, workplaces, and communities, thus changing this model
to include social structures as well as medical ones. And it refocuses the model
of cancer from attention to the disease once it has occurred to prevention of it
from occurring.

   Perhaps the increased awareness of the possibility of infertility for
children and young adults as a result of cancer treatments will initiate a
discussion about the limits of this biomedical model of cancer. Perhaps the
emergence of fertility preservation for children and young adult cancer patients
will initiate a discussion about why young people are still getting cancer and
thus increase the calls for research on the  [*867]  prevention of cancer, and
perhaps that discussion will take into account the social structure factors over
which individuals have little control. This, at any rate, is my hope.

   But I worry that such optimism could be misplaced by our cultural love affair
with technological interventions to endemic problems, both medical and
otherwise. Instead of addressing the root of the problem, we may continue along
with the biomedical model and search for a "cure" for cancer, accepting this as
the definition of progress. I fear, then, that fertility preservation
technologies for cancer patients could become one more example of the
classically American solution to medical and social problems: a technological
fix to provide a solution at the end, rather than acting to prevent a problem
from the beginning. As Roberts so compellingly and forcefully argues both in
this Issue and elsewhere, technological solutions to social problems often
results in further oppressing already-disadvantaged groups. n27 Discussing this
reliance on high-tech, end-point solutions rather than on prevention is where,
perhaps, the conversation regarding fertility preservation should occur.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Family LawPaternity & SurrogacySurrogacyAgreementsHealthcare
LawInsuranceExperimental TreatmentHealthcare LawTreatmentReproductive
TechnologyGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Paul G. Arshagouni, Be Fruitful and Multiply, by Other Means, if Necessary:
The Time Has Come to Recognize and Enforce Gestational Surrogacy Agreements, 61
DePaul L. Rev. 799, 847 (2012).





n2.  Patient's Fact Sheet: Cancer and Fertility Preservation, Am. Soc'y for
Reprod. Med. (Jan. 2004), http://www.asrm.org/uploadedFiles/ASRM
Content/Resources/Patient Resources/Fact Sheets and Info Booklets/cancer.pdf.





n3.  See generally Jacqueline S. Jeruss & Teresa K. Woodruff, Preservation of
Fertility in Patients with Cancer, 360 New Eng. J. Med. 902 (2009); Teresa K.
Woodruff, The Emergence of a New Interdiscipline: Oncofertility, in
Oncofertility: Fertility Preservation for Cancer Survivors 3 (Teresa K. Woodruff
& Karrie Ann Snyder eds., 2007).





n4.  Mary E. Fallat & John Hutter, Preservation of Fertility in Pediatric and
Adolescent Patients with Cancer, 121 Pediatrics e1461, e1463 (2008); Pasquale
Patrizio & Arthur L. Caplan, Ethical Issues Surrounding Fertility Preservation
in Cancer Patients, 53 Clinical Obstetrics & Gynecology 717, 718 (2010); see
also Jeruss & Woodruff, supra note 3, at 909.





n5.  See generally Paul Starr, Remedy and Reaction: The Peculiar American
Struggle over Health Care Reform (2011); see also Paul Oliver, Cal. HealthCare
Found., State Employer Health Insurance Mandates: A Brief History (2004),
available at
http://www.masscare.org/wp-content/uploads/2007/05/CHCFEmployerMandatesHistory.p
df.





n6.  Lisa Campo-Engelstein, Commentary, Insurance Coverage for Cancer-Induced
Conditions: Comparing Fertility Preservation Technology and Breast
Reconstructive Surgery, 61 DePaul L. Rev. 849 (2012).





n7.  Ina N. Cholst, Oncofertility: Preservation of Reproductive Potential, 61
DePaul L. Rev. 763 (2012).





n8.  Id. at 774-75.





n9.  Dorothy E. Roberts, The Social Context of Oncofertility, 61 DePaul L. Rev.
777 (2012).





n10.  See Shauna L. Gardino & Linda L. Emanuel, Choosing Life When Facing Death:
Understanding Fertility Preservation Decision-Making for Cancer Patients, in
Oncofertility: Ethical, Legal, Social, and Medical Perspectives 447, 447 (Teresa
K. Woodruff et al. eds., 2010).





n11.  See Patrizio & Caplan, supra note 4, at 717-20.





n12.  See Susan L. Barrett & Teresa K. Woodruff, Gamete Preservation, in
Oncofertility: Ethical, Legal, Social, and Medical Perspectives, supra note 10,
at 25, 31; Patrizio & Caplan, supra note 4, at 718.





n13.  Cf. President's Cancer Panel, Reducing Environmental Risk, 2008-2009
Annual Report 111 (2010), available at
http://deainfo.nci.nih.gov/advisory/pcp/annualReports/pcp08- 09rpt/PCP Report
08-09 508.pdf ("It is vitally important to recognize that children are far more
susceptible to damage from environmental carcinogens and endocrine-disrupting
compounds than adults.").





n14.  See Siddhartha Mukherjee, The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of
Cancer 26 (2010); James T. Patterson, The Dread Disease: Cancer and Modern
American Culture 137 (1987); David Cantor, Introduction to Cancer Control and
Prevention in the Twentieth Century, in Cancer in the Twentieth Century 5-6
(David Cantor ed., 2008).





n15.  See Gerald N. Grob, The Deadly Truth: A History of Disease in America 256
(2002).





n16.  See Judith P. Swazey & Renee C. Fox, Remembering the "Golden Years" of
Patient-Oriented Clinical Research: A Collective Conversation, 47 Persp. Biology
& Med. 487, 487-88 (2004).





n17.  See Grob, supra note 15, at 245; Mukherjee, supra note 14, at 121.





n18.  See R. F. Bud, Strategy in American Cancer Research After World War II: A
Case Study, 8 Soc. Stud. Sci. 425, 431 (1978).





n19.  See Grob, supra note 15, at 256; Mukherjee, supra note 14, at 121.





n20.  Patterson, supra note 14, at 171-72, 245.





n21.  Mukherjee, supra note 14, at 188.





n22.  Cancer Research Funding, Nat'l Cancer Inst. (June 2, 2011),
http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/factsheet/NCI/Fs1 1.pdf.





n23.  Grob, supra note 15, at 260.





n24.  Barbara L. Ley, From Pink to Green: Disease Prevention and the
Environmental Breast Cancer Movement 5 (2009).





n25.  Ley, supra note 24, at 30-31.





n26.  Letter from LaSalle D. Leffall, Jr., Chair, President's Cancer Panel, to
President Obama, in President's Cancer Panel, supra note 13.





n27.  See Dorothy Roberts, Killing the Black Body: Race, Reproduction, and the
Meaning of Liberty 269 (1997).


                              407 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sucheta Dalal

                       January 6, 2017 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Ills of Healthcare in India

BYLINE: Sucheta Dalal

LENGTH: 740  words


After Dissenting Diagnosis by Dr Arun Gadre and Dr Abhay Shukla (reviewed in
Moneylife, 10 June 2016), The Ethical Doctor is another lucid expose of the
rampant malpractices in the healthcare industry.

The author, Dr Kamal Kumar Mahawar, writes about corrupt practices in India, but
from the United Kingdom. This combination of circumstances has many
advantages-he writes with empathy for doctors, covers all aspects of the
problem, including the clueless and corrupt Medical Council of India (MCI), and
is in the happy position of not having his frank writing affect how own career
as a consultant general and bariatric surgeon with the National Health Service
of the UK.

The book needs to be read, and discussed, widely because we are all potential
victims of rapacious hospitals and unscrupulous medical practitioners. But it is
even more important that it is read by activists, policy-makers, administrators,
investigators and judges. This is because it tackles life and death issues as
well as the quality of our lives and of those we care about. The Ethical Doctor
is not merely an expose of a seriously flawed and corrupt healthcare system, but
an objective and unbiased analysis of the entire healthcare system, including
its socio-political dimensions. More importantly, it offers a clear roadmap for
change and improvement.

Dr Mahawar starts with a detailed analysis of MCI and its impractical and
legally binding code of ethics. If the code is followed in its totality, every
doctor would need to be a saint, he says, and goes on to provide a clause by
clause analysis of what is unworkable. He suggests a more practical code for MCI
to adopt and exhorts the medical profession to adopt a culture of self-audit.

He goes on to discuss malpractices by various stakeholders in the healthcare
industry in separate chapters: the pernicious practice of cuts and commissions
to doctors for referrals as well as for diagnostic tests (he says that
specialist doctors even pay advance commissions to general practitioners as an
incentive to refer more patients and build their practice), the scam of
unnecessary tests and treatments, the role of drug companies and appliance
manufacturers, how the poor and vulnerable are exploited, role of touts and
quacks (where he describes fakes as well as qualified professionals who practice
outside their field), etc.

Dr Mahawar points out that the acute shortage of doctors and trained healthcare
professionals has meant that people in many parts of the country have no option
but to depend on quacks.

An entire chapter is devoted to discussing the trend of doctors burnishing their
image through meaningless degrees/diplomas, hiring PR agents, making claims of
breakthrough treatments and even buying awards, not to mention constant
travelling for conferences that are usually paid for by pharmaceutical companies
and equipment manufacturers. The PR agents, reputation-building efforts and
commissions ensure that most people have no way of knowing who is a genuinely
good doctor and who has simply built up his reputation by dubious means.

This is followed by two detailed chapters on the strengths and weaknesses of
public sector and the private sector hospitals, including the role of
infrastructure, manpower, and private medical colleges that grant admission
based on capitation fees. There is also a long discussion on the need to
regulate various stakeholders in the healthcare chain along with relevant
comparisons of how other countries handle such issues.

Each of these chapters comes alive with his personal anecdotes and observations
as well as examples of abhorrent malpractices reported by the media. The book
covers issues like surrogacy, organ donations, medical trials and downright
cheating (like the uterus scandal at Samastipur, where a poor woman is asked to
get expensive tests and then told to have a hysterectomy to take advantage of a
government insurance scheme).

Dr Mahawar ends the book by suggesting radical reform and a series of actions
that the government can take to reform the system. The last chapter, aptly
titled 'The Way Forward', makes some of these suggestions cry out for their
immediate incorporation into the National Medical Commission Bill that is
proposed by the government. With an estimated 39 million families pushed into
poverty every year as a result of mounting healthcare expenses, India simply
needs to get its act together on reforming the system.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


      Copyright 2017 Moneywise Media Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              July 21, 2003 Monday

School Board to vote on switching health insurers

BYLINE: REBECCA CATALANELLO

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 535 words


Pasco County school employees might soon see a change in their health insurance
provider.

After weeks of negotiations with two insurance companies, the Pasco County
School Board on Tuesday will vote on plans to switch from United HealthCare to
Blue Cross/Blue Shield.

Blue Cross/Blue Shield undercut the $27.5-million United HealthCare bid by
$650,000, according to documents provided by the school district. But one United
HealthCare consultant is taking the district's decision to task, saying the
company still has a right to match the lowest bid.

"He's absolutely dead wrong," said Bill Alexander, director of employee benefits
and assistance. "We determined that would not be legal or ethical."

Jon Coley, an independent consultant representing United HealthCare, is pushing
for the district to reconsider. Coley said he thinks the cost of the district
switching  to a new provider would end up being more expensive.

But Alexander, district purchasing agent Kendra Goodman and superintendent John
Long said that after they ended negotiations and asked  the companies to make
their  final offers, Blue Cross offered a better deal. The district's written
request for bids  said the awards would be made to "the lowest and best bidder."

"I'm a little embarrassed for United," Goodman said. "I think you have to
understand that in most atmospheres, "best and final' pretty obviously means
"best and final.' "

School officials have been  waiting for final insurance bids to help them decide
on $500,000 in additional budget cuts this fall. After the state Department of
Education announced school grades last month, the district's chief financial
officer warned that the monetary awards granted to A-schools might  affect the
district's  budget.

Though the final health care bids were in Friday, it was not clear what the
bottom-line budgetary impact would be. The district was still shopping around
for  prescription coverage.

Besides submitting the lower bid, Goodman said, those on the district's
15-member insurance committee liked Blue Cross/Blue Shield's hospitalization
plan. The company offered a $300-per-day deductible for up to five days in the
hospital compared with United's $500-per-day deductible for up to three days.

Coley countered that United HealthCare's plan offers more opportunities for
customers to go directly to specialists.

Under Blue Cross/Blue Shield, the ability to see specialists without a primary
physician referral would depend on which plan employees choose.

The regular doctor visit co-pays are the same under both companies' plans,
according to documents provided by the district: $15 for a primary care
physician, $25 for a specialist.

But Roger Rollman, a spokesman for United HealthCare, said school district
employees have been satisfied with the company's care for the past few years.
Eighty-five percent of the respondents in a March survey said they considered
the service excellent or good.

Rollman said the company would be willing to close the spread if the district
asked.

The Tuesday meeting is set for 6 p.m. at the district's administrative offices
at 7205 Land O'Lakes Blvd. in Land O'Lakes.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              409 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Sunday Tasmanian (Australia)

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday

Vetting the vet can make good sense

BYLINE: Anne Boxhall

SECTION: SUNDAY; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 333  words


MORE often than not, a trip to the vet turns out to be an expensive exercise.

Pet owners often query why it seems more expensive to take our animals to the
vet than it is to take ourselves to the doctor.

It helps to remember that a visit to the vet includes payment not only for the
consultation, but also for blood tests, prescriptions and other medications.

The total amount can seem like a lot all at once.

When we go to the doctor, we usually pay only for the consultation and then get
another bill at the chemist or from pathology.

If we're lucky, we may never even see the total bill for many of our own medical
expenses because they are paid for us through bulk-billing or private health
insurance.

Unless you have taken out pet health insurance, vet bills often seem high in
comparison.

Interestingly, vets have an ethical obligation to relieve an animal's pain and
suffering by appropriate use of painkillers regardless of the owner's financial
status.

However, this obligation doesn't extend to diagnostic tests, treatments or long
hospital stays.

It's important you are happy with your vet and trust in their abilities and
motives.

So, how do we find the right vet?

A good starting point is to ask for a recommendation from a fellow animal lover,
animal shelter, trainer or groomer who may be able to guide you in the right
direction.

It's a good idea to request a list of prices for services from several vets.

Some vet practices may also provide information on pensioner discounts, reward
card schemes, discounted consultation fees for two or more pets and the
availability of emergency or specialist services.

On the practical side, check if parking is convenient and the waiting room is
clean and comfortable and reception staff are calm and caring. If so, you know
you're off to a good start.

Finally, when the vet turns out to be your pet's second best friend -- after
you, of course -- then you know your companion is in the right hands. * Anne
Boxhall for the Tasmanian Animal Welfare Coalition

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 25, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSINESS DIGEST

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 619 words


Boeing Fires Executives For 'Ethical Misconduct'
Boeing dismissed its chief financial officer and a vice president for what it
called ethical misconduct in the hiring of the vice president, a former Pentagon
official who was involved in contract negotiations with the company.

The chief financial officer, Michael Sears, was fired for discussing a job with
the Pentagon official, Darleen Druyun, above, while she was representing the
Pentagon in negotiations with the company over a multibillion-dollar contract to
supply aerial refueling tankers. An internal inquiry found that Mr. Sears and
Ms. Druyun, who was also fired, tried to cover up their discussions, Boeing
said.  Page A1.


Media Ownership Deal Reached
The White House and Congress settled their dispute over media ownership rules, a
move that could allow Congress to complete work on a $330 billion catch-all
spending measure covering a third of all federal programs. Networks will be able
to own stations reaching 39 percent of all audiences.  A20.

NASD Considers I.P.O. Rules
NASD is considering whether to require underwriters to justify the prices they
set for initial public offerings. It proposed a series of rules involving parts
of the new offering process, including one aimed at keeping retail investors
from accidentally paying inflated prices for hot new offerings once they begin
trading. Floyd Norris: Market Place.  C9.

Senate Clears Way for Medicare Bill
The Senate beat back two major challenges to a bill that would add prescription
drug benefits to Medicare. The votes cleared the way for Congress to approve the
biggest changes in the program since it was created in 1965 as a cornerstone of
the Great Society.  A1.

The drug industry appears on the cusp of an enormous victory won in part by
millions in political donations and an expensive lobbying campaign.  A20.

Shares Return to Positive Territory
Stocks rallied, shaking off two consecutive weeks of declines, as investors
scooped up shares in anticipation of strong economic data later in the week. The
Dow rose 1.24 percent, to 9,747.79; the Nasdaq rose 2.81 percent, to 1,947.14;
and the S.&P. 500 climbed 1.62 percent, to 1,052.08. Bonds retreated slightly on
the stock rally, while the dollar rose against the euro and the yen.  C9.

Putnam Investments had a $9 billion decline in assets under management last
week, but was able to handle client redemptions without increasing transaction
costs, its parent, Marsh & McLennan Companies, said.  C3.

Sprint to Lay Off 2,000 Employees
Sprint said it would lay off 2,000 workers, or 2.9 percent of its employees, as
it reorganizes operations to contend with falling long-distance sales. The
company will record unspecified costs for the reductions this quarter. Jobs will
be cut in all divisions, including the wireless and long-distance units. Sprint
shares rose 18 cents, to $15.56. The stock that tracks the wireless division
rose 26 cents, to $4.61. Sprint plans to do away with those shares.  C8.

Pointing Fingers in Enron Case
The bankruptcy-court-appointed examiner in the Enron case said in his final
report that sufficient evidence existed to prove that the company's former
chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, and its former chief executive, Jeffrey K. Skilling,
failed to adequately oversee Enron's use of financing methods to hide debt and
inflate profits.  C13.

Germany and France Win Time
Germany and France won extra time to reduce their budget deficits, overriding
objections from four smaller countries that the compromise risks the credibility
of the euro by undermining European Union fiscal rules.  C6.

The Hotel Irritants' List
Business travelers confirm that they find many hotel gadgets frustrating. Joe
Sharkey: On the Road.  C4.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,747.79 up 119.26Nasdaq
composite -- 1,947.14 up 53.2610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.23% up 0.07The euro --
$1.1770 down 0.0145The dollar -- 100.43 yen up 0.63 Graph tracks Sprint's share
price for last week.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              411 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             August 17, 2012 Friday

Obama campaign taking us from belief to betrayal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 584 words


In the innocent, bygone days of February, President Obama told NBC News that the
campaign would get negative against him, but provided this assurance: "I think
that you will be able to see how we conduct ourselves in the campaign. I think
it will be consistent with how I conducted myself in 2008 and hopefully how I
have conducted myself as president of the United States."

Not since Gary Hart urged reporters to follow him around because "they'd be very
bored" has an assurance been more of an indictment. The Obama campaign has
targeted and intimidated Republican donors on an Internet enemies list. It has
engaged in the juvenile mockery of Mitt Romney's singing. It has suggested,
without evidence, that Romney may have committed the felony of falsifying FEC
documents. It has speculated, without proof, that Romney has avoided paying
taxes. When Joe Biden engages in racially charged hyperbole, he is awkwardly but
accurately reflecting the spirit of the 2012 Obama campaign.

But the most vivid accusation (made by a closely associated PAC and embraced by
the campaign itself) is that Romney's ruthless business practices were
responsible for the closing of a firm, the loss of a couple's health insurance,
and thus the death of a woman from cancer. Except that Romney wasn't connected
to the closing of the firm, the woman continued to have health insurance from
another source, and her cancer was diagnosed five years after the plant shut
down.

Which represents the crossing of an ethical line. If the conduct of the Obama
campaign team were universalized, candidates would no longer require any
evidence to accuse one another of complicity in a death. To accept this as a new
political norm would be to define defamation down.

Obama's defenders assure us that everyone does it. But not everyone does this.
It is one thing to exploit a misstatement; another to exploit a tragedy. It is
one thing to mischaracterize a federal waiver; another to accuse an opponent of
being the Angel of Death.

For the Obama campaign, this is not an aberration; it is a culmination. The
demonization of Romney is a main element of its strategy, pursued by Obama's
closest associates and former employees, not by loosely affiliated partisan
groups. Deniability is not even remotely plausible, but it doesn't remotely
matter. Even when exposed, the Obama campaign never retracts, never apologizes
-- convinced that the news cycle will quickly erase inconvenient memories.

There is, however, some collateral damage. Obama increased the turnout of young
voters in 2008 by more than 2 million over the previous election. But the level
of trust by young people in public institutions, including the presidency, has
been declining.

The Obama campaign is veering toward antinomianism. Since it regards its own
motives as pure, it feels it can dispense with the normal rules of accuracy,
civility and decency. So we get the political methods of Spiro Agnew combined
with the moral self-regard of Woodrow Wilson. It is not an attractive mixture.

Speaking in Canton, Ohio, a week before the 2008 election, Obama said, "Some of
you may be cynical and fed up with politics. A lot of you may be disappointed
and even angry with your leaders. You have every right to be. But despite all of
this, I ask of you what has been asked of Americans throughout our history. I
ask you to believe."

I am admittedly a sucker for rhetorical idealism. But it can't be a small thing,
a typical thing, a trivial thing, to ask for belief and then betray it.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              412 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 10, 1997, Saturday

When there's a will; Makeover: Diane and her long-term partner should start by
considering what happens if one of them dies

SECTION: MONEY; Page  28

LENGTH: 1101 words


NAME: Diane Savage

AGE: 38

OCCUPATION: corporate liaison officer with a professional body.

BACKGROUND: Diane earns pounds 24,000 and plans to stay with her employer.  Her
long-term partner, Tony, is a graphic designer and they jointly own a property
mortgaged on a fixed rate with the Bank of Ireland. In addition they have a
small loan for home improvements through Midland Bank. The mortgage is covered
with a joint life policy.

Diane has a good company pension scheme she joined 30 months ago. She also
enjoys good health benefits from her employer. She has recently inherited pounds
10,000 and wonders what to do with this. She has ethical concerns about where
her money is invested.

THE ADVISER: Amanda Davidson, a partner at Holden Meehan, a firm of independent
financial advisers in London (Tel 0171 404 6442)

THE ADVICE: "Diane benefits from a final salary pension scheme set up by her
employer, where her final retirement income will be linked to the number of
years she has been with the organisation. Her pension benefits are due to be
paid at 62. In fact, Diane has indicated that she would like to retire at 65 and
the pension scheme does allow for this.

As Diane and Tony are not married, there are various house-keeping exercises
that they should undertake. There are also benefits for which Diane is eligible
that Tony cannot take advantage of.

The main one is the spouse's pension that would be paid in the event of Diane's
premature death. Only the most enlightened employers make provisions for
common-law spouses and Tony stands to lose pounds 5,000 a year should Diane
pre-decease him, because they are not married.

However, Diane has already made provision for Tony with her death-in- service
benefit which is four times her income. She should also ensure that provision is
made for Tony to benefit from the Allied Dunbar personal pension that she had
prior to joining the company pension scheme.

Tony has a personal pension plan and he should make sure that this is left in
trust for her. Neither of them has made wills, and this is something that they
should do post-haste. They should check that ownership of the house is joint
tenancy, so each will own the property should the other die.

Diane's firm provides a good health insurance policy for her if she should fall
ill. This is basically 50 per cent of her income which increases at 3 per cent
per annum. Whilst the 3 per cent increase is fine in low- inflation times, if
the cost of living should increase the real value of Diane's ill-health income
would reduce.

I therefore recommend that she consider taking out a critical illness policy for
the amount of the mortgage - pounds 66,000. Critical illness policies pay out in
the event of the onset of certain illnesses and diseases, such as cancer, heart
attacks or strokes. This would cost pounds 20 a month with Skandia, an insurer
that has an ethical fund.

Diane's pension is very good. However, she has joined it late and therefore
there is room for improvement. If she retires at 65, she would be looking at
about 50 per cent of her income. In order to top this up by a further 10 per
cent, she should invest pounds 60 a month net of tax into an additional
voluntary contribution scheme (AVC).

She indicates that she has pounds 380 a month left after basic household bills
have been paid. Some of this will be taken up with the AVC pension top- up. The
companies that I recommend she looks at for topping up her pension would be
Friends Provident and NPI, which both run ethical funds.

Diane should certainly also investigate the in-house arrangement that the
professional body operates. She is likely to find that the charges will be lower
with this scheme but she will not have the discretion of investing where she
chooses, for instance in an ethical fund. She will have to weigh up the lower
cost versus the other benefits of flexibility and choice.

As far as the inheritance is concerned, Diane has pounds 10,000 for investment.
I am not recommending that she repays some of her mortgage as it is on a fixed
rate with the Bank of Ireland and she would suffer redemption penalties for so
doing.

I recommend that she keeps pounds 2,000 aside for short-term emergencies in an
accessible fund. She should look at a postal account such as Cheltenham &
Gloucester which would give a gross interest rate of 5.5 per cent for a 30-day
account.

For the remainder, I recommend that she put pounds 6,000 into a PEP and pounds
2,000 into a Tessa.

If Diane is looking to invest her PEP in the UK, then Credit Suisse or Friends
Provident will suit, and if she is looking to invest internationally, NPI and
Jupiter fit the bill. As far as the Tessa is concerned, then Birmingham
Midshires Inflation-Beater Tessa offers a guaranteed 3 per cent over the retail
price index with a current rate of 6.5 per cent.

My recommendations will change if Diane can repay her loan without penalty.
This will release pounds 136 a month for further savings which she could use to
top up a Tessa, for instance.

Given that she has indicated that she has additional sums available each month,
I would recommend that after she has invested in a critical illness policy and a
pension top-up, she should decide on a further sum to place in a PEP.

If, say, Diane chooses one PEP for this tax year, her monthly savings can be
invested in another PEP to give her a spread of risk. The PEPs should be set
aside for a five-year-plus period and Diane has indicated that this is the
length of time she is looking to.

In summary, Diane has good provision but needs to keep up the discipline of
savings. This will ensure that she has a comfortable future, irrespective of the
uncertainties of life."

(Amanda Davidson's advice was given shortly before the end of the 1996- 97 tax
year, allowing Diane to take advantage of that year's tax allowance for her lump
sum PEP investment)

THE VERDICT: "I have taken up Amanda's advice on a number of issues.  For
instance, I am taking steps to pay off the Midland Bank loan and I have already
made the lump-sum PEP investment. We were aware of the need to make wills and we
have one in front of us right now, literally.

Amanda's advice sounded sensible and it made me want to act on it immediately."

If you want to take part in a financial makeover, please write to: Nic Cicutti,
"Free Financial Advice Offer", The Independent, One Canada Square, Canary Wharf,
London E14 5DL, enclosing a few brief details about yourself and a telephone
number.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd


                              413 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

ADD MEDICAL FUND TO RAW MILK BILL

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 720 words


It's fine if adults want to buy and consume raw milk, but this product will also
be shared with vulnerable children.

A very small percentage of those consumers will eventually be sickened by the
disease-causing organisms. Most of those patients will recover, but a few will
have lengthy hospitalizations or perhaps die. The resulting catastrophic medical
bills will be passed on to Wisconsin taxpayers.

I therefore urge Rep. Mike Sheridan, D-Janesville, and Sen. Russ Decker,
D-Weston, to include a provision in the raw milk authorization requiring
producers and distributors to pay into a medical insurance fund covering victims
of tainted raw milk.

Wisconsin taxpayers and hospitals should not be burdened with the costs of
risky, though profit-making, behavior by a few consumers.

- Michael May, Madison

Blanchard ethical and nonpartisan

The tone of recent judicial elections has been discouraging to all of us who
value the integrity of our judicial system. Above all, judges should be
impartial decision makers whose independence is unquestioned and whose
allegiance is to the law, not to any partisan political or ideological cause.

Brian Blanchard has run the kind of judicial campaign that shows the kind of
judge he'll be: nonpartisan, ethical and respectful.

Blanchard has an impressive legal background and is well qualified to be a
judge. His tenure as district attorney has been distinguished by attention to
the law, the facts and his dedication to fairness and justice.

Vote for Blanchard for Court of Appeals on Tuesday.

- Brian E. Butler, Middleton

Pass Stoughton school referendums

On Tuesday, Stoughton area residents will vote on two budget referendums.
Stoughton schools are in desperate need of repair. Cost-cutting measures over
the past 17 years have left them in dire straits.

By majority vote, the Stoughton Kiwanis Club encourages voters to study the
issues and vote to support our children. Consider:

* If they fail, which programs and positions will be cut? How will the quality
of education be affected?

* What skills do children need to survive in the 21st century, and how do they
differ from those needed 17 years ago, when school revenue limits were enacted?

* Can a community claim to be a great place to live if it fails to properly
educate its children? As a parent or an employer, would you move to a community
that won't support its schools?

* How can the United States continue to lead if its citizens aren't prepared to
compete with other countries? Will the "Greatest Generation" pass its values of
duty and responsibility on to succeeding generations?

* If these referendums pass, what will it mean to the future of our children and
community?

As responsible adults, we owe it to ourselves and the children to consider the
implications of our vote and provide today's children with the same level of
support that we received growing up.

- Howard Brantmeyer, Brooklyn, Glenn McNaughton, Stoughton and Barry Verdegan,
Stoughton, officers, Kiwanis Club of Stoughton

Appreciate our friends, the Israelis

As we enter this holiday season of peace and love, remember the joys of family
and friendship, and value them highly. Friendship is hard to come by in our
cynical world, so we must learn to appreciate it.

We have no better friend in the international community than Israel. They are
the only democratic country in the Middle East. We have stood with them from
their beginning, and they have stood with us in the battle against terrorism.

The settlement flap is a tempest in a teapot. Israel protects the religious
sites of all three faiths, and Jews, Arabs and Christians all live in Jerusalem.

Jerusalem has always been the true capital of the Jewish homeland, yet world
leaders have declined to recognize it as such for fear of offending the
Palestinians.

Despite a mandate passed by Congress under President Bill Clinton to move our
embassy to Jerusalem, no president since has had the courage to do it.

Palestinian refusal to recognize the right of the Jewish homeland to exist
continues to be the main roadblock to peace. Let's have real peace this holiday
season. Let's stop supporting the Palestinian position and back our peace-loving
ally - Israel.

Peace will not be served by letting the Palestinian state destroy Israel. Let's
learn to appreciate who our friends really are.

- Kurt Palm, Janesville

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            August 18, 2012 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

SECTION: Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 767 words


In the innocent, bygone days of February, President Obama told NBC News that the
campaign would get negative against him, but provided this assurance: "I think
that you will be able to see how we conduct ourselves in the campaign. I think
it will be consistent with how I conducted myself in 2008 and hopefully how I
have conducted myself as president of the United States."

Not since Gary Hart urged reporters to follow him around because "they'd be very
bored" has an assurance been more of an indictment. The Obama campaign has
targeted and intimidated Republican donors on an Internet enemies list. It has
engaged in the juvenile mockery of Mitt Romney's singing. It has suggested,
without evidence, that Romney may have committed the felony of falsifying FEC
documents. It has speculated, without proof, that Romney has avoided paying
taxes. When Joe Biden engages in racially charged hyperbole, he is awkwardly but
accurately reflecting the spirit of the 2012 Obama campaign.

But the most vivid accusation (made by a closely associated PAC and embraced by
the campaign itself) is that Romney's ruthless business practices were
responsible for the closing of a firm, the loss of a couple's health insurance,
and thus the death of a woman from cancer. Except that Romney wasn't connected
to the closing of the firm, the woman continued to have health insurance from
another source, and her cancer was diagnosed five years after the plant shut
down.

Which represents the crossing of an ethical line. If the conduct of the Obama
campaign team were universalized, candidates would no longer require any
evidence to accuse one another of complicity in a death. To accept this as a new
political norm would be to define defamation down.

Obama's defenders assure us that everyone does it. But not everyone does this.
It is one thing to exploit a misstatement; another to exploit a tragedy. It is
one thing to mischaracterize a federal waiver; another to accuse an opponent of
being the Angel of Death.

For the Obama campaign, this is not an aberration; it is a culmination. The
demonization of Romney is a main element of its strategy, pursued by Obama's
closest associates and former employees, not by loosely affiliated partisan
groups. Deniability is not even remotely plausible but it doesn't remotely
matter. Even when exposed, the Obama campaign never retracts, never apologizes -
convinced that the news cycle will quickly erase inconvenient memories.

It seems to be working, at least for the moment. Obama's recent polling gains
are mainly explainable by Romney's rising negatives, particularly among
independents. Even as political journalists point out distortions by the Obama
campaign, they tend to praise its boldness, coordination and momentum.  And each
new controversy succeeds in distracting attention from Obama's economic
stewardship.

There is, however, some collateral damage. Obama increased the turnout of young
voters in 2008 by more than 2 million over the previous election. But the level
of trust by young people in public institutions, including the presidency, has
been declining. Youth interest in politics has waned. Some of this is a function
of understandable economic discontent. But apart from the most partisan, what
young voters have had their sights and spirits lifted by the current campaign?
Having introduced a generation to political idealism, Obama seems intent on
taking it back.

Ronald Reagan expressed distrust of government while paradoxically improving its
image and standing. Obama has placed boundless faith in government while trust
in public institutions has declined to all-time lows. It is the legacy of
Obama's liberalism: expanding the state while helping discredit the political
process.

The Obama campaign is veering toward antinomianism. Since it regards its own
motives as pure, it feels it can dispense with the normal rules of accuracy,
civility and decency. So we get the political methods of Spiro Agnew combined
with the moral self-regard of Woodrow Wilson. It is not an attractive mixture.

Speaking in Canton, Ohio, a week before the 2008 election, Obama said, "Some of
you may be cynical and fed up with politics. A lot of you may be disappointed
and even angry with your leaders. You have every right to be. But despite all of
this, I ask of you what has been asked of Americans throughout our history. I
ask you to believe."

I am admittedly a sucker for rhetorical idealism. But it can't be a small thing,
a typical thing, a trivial thing, to ask for belief and then betray it.

Michael Gerson is a columnist for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                        March 7, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Aflac Named to Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical Companies List

LENGTH: 531  words


March 7 -- Aflac, the leader of voluntary insurance sales at the worksite in the
United States, announced today it has been named to the Ethisphere Institute's
2016 World's Most Ethical Companies list. This marks 10 consecutive years that
Aflac has appeared on this prestigious list, making them the sole insurance
company to have appeared on the list every year since its inception. All told,
131 companies made the list this year, eight of which are 10-time recipients,
including Aflac.

"Appearing on Ethisphere's list of the World's Most Ethical Companies for an
amazing 10 consecutive years is an honor and, in today's climate, a welcomed
validation of our business practices," Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos said.
"Research continues to show that consumers and investors have a heightened
expectation for companies to behave ethically and responsibly, so we are proud
to receive this award from Ethisphere, a top authority in the field of corporate
ethics."

This year marks the 10th anniversary of Ethisphere and the World's Most Ethical
Companies designation, which, according to Ethisphere, recognizes companies that
align principle with action, work tirelessly to make trust part of their
corporate DNA and, in doing so, shape future industry standards by introducing
tomorrow's best practices today.

"Operating in an industry where trust is everything, Aflac has a longstanding
history of transparency and leadership in governance practices that has earned
them that trust," explained Ethisphere's Chief Executive Officer Timothy
Erblich. "Their unwavering commitment to the communities in which they operate
around the globe and their values-based leadership approach are only a few of
the reasons they have made the list since its inception, 10 years running.
Congratulations to everyone at Aflac for being recognized as a 2016 World's Most
Ethical Company."

The World's Most Ethical Company assessment is based upon the Ethisphere
Institute's Ethics Quotient (EQ) framework developed over years of research and
vetted and refined by the expert advice from Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical
Company Methodology Advisory Panel. The EQ offers a quantitative way to assess a
company's performance in an objective, consistent and standardized way. The
information collected provides a comprehensive sampling of definitive criteria
of core competencies, rather than all aspects of corporate governance, risk,
sustainability, compliance and ethics.

The scores provided to all companies that participate in the process are
generated in five key categories: ethics and compliance program (35 percent);
corporate citizenship and responsibility (20 percent); culture of ethics (20
percent); governance (15 percent); and leadership, innovation and reputation (10
percent). Visit http://worldsmostethicalcompanies.ethisphere.com/honorees for a
complete list of this year's honorees.

Best practices and insights from the 2016 honorees will be released in the form
of a whitepaper and infographics over the next few months (download the 2015
insights). Organizations interested in how they compare to the World's Most
Ethical Companies are invited to participate in the Ethics Quotient.

Source: Aflac

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      April 17, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Aflac Retains Membership on FTSE4Good Index

LENGTH: 288  words


New Delhi, April 17 -- Aflac, the number one provider of supplemental insurance
in the United States1, announced that the company has retained its membership on
the FTSE4Good Index. FTSE, a leader in global indices, has included Aflac as a
member of this prestigious index since 2011. Aflac is one of 159 U.S. Companies
currently included on the list.



The FTSE4Good Index Series objectively measures the performance of companies
that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards, according to
the FTSE website. For inclusion, eligible companies must meet criteria
requirements regarding sustainability, human rights, supply chain labor
standards, countering bribery and climate change.

"Aflac strives to be a good neighbor in our community by making sustainability
and social responsibility a cultural priority," Aflac's Chairman and CEO Dan
Amos said. "We are proud of our membership on the FTSE4Good Index because it
validates our belief that being a good corporate citizen makes good business
sense, and it is also the right thing to do."

To compile the index, FTSE works with Ethical Investment Research Services
(EIRIS) and its network of international partners to research company corporate
responsibility performance. Researchers use a variety of mechanisms to access
the most up-to-date data including annual reports, information on company
websites, and questionnaires to aid in determining if a company meets the
criteria for inclusion.

In addition to FTSE4Good membership, Ethisphere magazine also included Aflac on
its list of the World's Most Ethical Companies for the seventh consecutive year
in 2013. Aflac is one of 159 United States companies and 722 globally on the
FTSE4Good Index as of March 29, 2013.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             India Investment News

                      April 17, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Aflac Retains Membership on FTSE4Good Index

LENGTH: 288  words


New Delhi, April 17 -- Aflac, the number one provider of supplemental insurance
in the United States1, announced that the company has retained its membership on
the FTSE4Good Index. FTSE, a leader in global indices, has included Aflac as a
member of this prestigious index since 2011. Aflac is one of 159 U.S. Companies
currently included on the list.



The FTSE4Good Index Series objectively measures the performance of companies
that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards, according to
the FTSE website. For inclusion, eligible companies must meet criteria
requirements regarding sustainability, human rights, supply chain labor
standards, countering bribery and climate change.

"Aflac strives to be a good neighbor in our community by making sustainability
and social responsibility a cultural priority," Aflac's Chairman and CEO Dan
Amos said. "We are proud of our membership on the FTSE4Good Index because it
validates our belief that being a good corporate citizen makes good business
sense, and it is also the right thing to do."

To compile the index, FTSE works with Ethical Investment Research Services
(EIRIS) and its network of international partners to research company corporate
responsibility performance. Researchers use a variety of mechanisms to access
the most up-to-date data including annual reports, information on company
websites, and questionnaires to aid in determining if a company meets the
criteria for inclusion.

In addition to FTSE4Good membership, Ethisphere magazine also included Aflac on
its list of the World's Most Ethical Companies for the seventh consecutive year
in 2013. Aflac is one of 159 United States companies and 722 globally on the
FTSE4Good Index as of March 29, 2013.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Philadelphia Daily News

                              March 6, 2006 Monday

Ellen Gray | Questioning 'Miracles'

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 585 words


MIRACLE WORKERS. 10 tonight, Channel 6.

I'M GOING to hell.

I know this because tonight, ABC is introducing "Miracle Workers," a show that
helps the lame walk and the blind see - in the very first episode - and I'm not
jumping up from my couch and shouting, "Hallelujah!"

In fact, I am asking Persnickety Questions. Such as:

In a country where the Census Bureau estimates nearly 46 million people don't
have health insurance, should cutting-edge health care be paired with sob
stories on a TV "reality" show?

Given just how "cutting edge" and downright risky many of the surgeries featured
on the show are, how ethical is it for the series' team of doctors and nurses to
be enthusiastically urging them on patients?

Now that "Extreme Makeover: Home Edition" and "Miracle Workers" have solved two
of the nation's most pressing domestic problems - affordable housing and access
to first-quality medical care - when will ABC tackle terrorism and let our
bloated federal bureaucracy wither away altogether?

As I said, I'm going to hell.

But before I leave, I'd like to talk a bit about "Miracle Workers," whose
premiere follows the cases of Todd Heritage, who lost his sight 22 years ago at
the age of 11 as the result of an allergic reaction to penicillin, and Vanessa
Slaughter, who's been confined to a wheelchair by a painful back problem that
could paralyze her.

You can't help but want these two to find salvation at the hands of the doctors
"Miracle Workers" lines up, and if you're not fighting back tears when Heritage
talks about the wife and three kids he's never seen, well, you're tougher than I
am.

Still, I couldn't completely forget my Persnickety Questions, or fail to notice
that the show doesn't get into the cost of treatment or say who's paying for
what, beyond a donation by a drug-store chain.

You might, in fact, think that in return for baring their souls to ABC's
audience, these two got a free ride. So who does pay for these "miracles"?

According to executive producer David Garfinkle, whose credits include "Blind
Date" and "Chains of Love" - a show in which a man or woman and a group of
prospective suitors were chained together, night and day - "the doctors are paid
just like they're always paid. So the way it's worked out was, you know,
insurance covered some of the procedures, we helped with some of the procedures,
and some of the medical facilities helped."

When I raised the issue of trading exposure for treatment at an ABC press
conference in January, Dr. Redmond Burke, a pediatric heart surgeon who
functions as one of the hosts on the show, was quick to jump in.

"All of us are very worried about our credibility as caregivers, and we wanted
to make sure that there were no inducements to patients to be on this program,
to get the care that they deserved and needed," he said.

"And we were very rigorous in our ethical analysis to make sure that there were
no financial inducements to these families... I think we offered them the same
thing we offer our own friends and family who have medical problems and come to
us and ask for advice. We become their advocates."

Burke said they'd also "reconciled" their worries about possibly exploiting
their subjects.

"These families wanted to tell their stories because it gave them some power,
some control over their disease. They were going to use their suffering to help
other people by telling their stories."

Which is something, I'll admit, I never heard from any of the participants on
"Chains of Love."

Send e-mail to graye@phillynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday

Why a long life could be bad for your health

BYLINE: KATHERINE FLEMING

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 641  words


Health experts urge Australians to look after their health or the economic
consequences could prove terminal

Health experts are warning people to look after themselves or face crippling
disease in old age, as our affluent society provides not only the technology to
keep them alive longer but also a way of life to make them fat and lazy.

They say an ageing population and ever-increasing life expectancy will have huge
consequences for Australian society, including financial, health and ethical
implications. The experts urge more debate and planning.

WA Aged Care Advisory Council chairwoman Penny Flett said a strong health and
economy meant now was a golden age to grow old in WA. But the excesses of a
comfortable society also were setting people up for obesity and major illnesses.

The three epidemics facing the ageing population were diabetes, dementia and
depression, which often was a result of the elderly being isolated, Dr Flett
said.

Joe Kosterich, head of the Perth-based Australasian Institute of Anti-Ageing
Medicine, said it was not inevitable that old people would end up in nursing
homes if they looked after themselves.

More people were taking an interest in preventive medicine, seeking advice about
diet, exercise, sleep, herbal and vitamin supplements and stress management,
which he predicted would be a boom industry.

Caring for elderly people in their homes would be big business, as they
increasingly opted for independence rather than nursing homes, Dr Kosterich
said. Services could include delivering meals, doing washing and cleaning,
helping with bathing and supervising medication. Curtin University health
economist Gavin Mooney said aged care funding needed to be better co-ordinated
and put into keeping people in the community.

Higher taxation was inevitable to provide public services for the elderly, he
said. Taxpayer-funded services would mean private health insurance premiums
still would be affordable for non-chronic illnesses and younger people.

People needed to be financially sensible and optimistic about remaining
independent. Retiring at 55 or 60 would not be possible for many.

"They will continue to do work because maybe they need to keep earning money,"
she said. "If you retire at 60 and you've got another 40 years, that is a long
time. Only 100 years ago, you didn't expect to live beyond retirement."

Dr Kosterich said there were important ethical questions. "Our capacity to keep
people alive just because we can is already there and is probably already
happening," he said. "How often that is a good thing is a debate the community
ultimately needs to have."

But Australian Medical Association ethics spokeswoman Rosanna Capolingua said
the debate was about respect for life and investment in health, not euthanasia.
"I have patients in their 80s and none of them want to die," she said.

Curtin University research fellow Ann Clarke said the elderly were under social
and cultural pressure to "take it easy" and be inactive.

Figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics show the number of people aged
over 85 grew 40.5 per cent between 1993 and 2003.

THE

UNDER SIEGE

ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE, DEMENTIA

Risks: not yet known

CATARACTS

Risks: over-exposure to sun

GLAUCOMA

Risks: diabetes

MOUTH AND THROAT CANCER

Risks: smoking and alcohol

LUNG CANCER

Risks: smoking

HEART DISEASE

Risks: smoking, high cholesterol, bad diet, obesity

LIVER CIRRHOSIS

Risks: long-term alcohol abuse

KIDNEY FAILURE

Risks: diabetes

COLON AND BOWEL CANCER

Risks: low fibre, high fat diet

IMPOTENCE

Risks: drinking, drugs, diabetes

DEEP VEIN THROMBOSIS

Risks: long plane flights, sedentary lifestyle

ARTHRITIS

Risks: not enough exercise, being overweight

OSTEOPOROSIS

Risks: not getting enough calcium at an early age

LEG AMPUTATION

Risks: diabetes, smoking

SKIN CANCER/ MELANOMA

Risks: over-exposure to UV rays

BUNIONS, TOE DEFORMITIES

Risks: ill-fitting shoes

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: THE UNDER SIEGE.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                              May 22, 2009 Friday

Speaker: Justice part of medicine

BYLINE: By Brian Maffly The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; News; State

LENGTH: 750 words


Medicine's ethical foundation is supposed to resemble a sturdy, well-balanced
chair.

But these days it's looking more like a broken stool as patient choice and
profit opportunities seem to increasingly outweigh social justice, according to
a top medical educator who will address the University of Utah School of
Medicine commencement Saturday.

Accordingly, health care is not equitably distributed across U.S. society and
physicians must take a leading role in addressing this emerging crisis, said
Darrell Kirch, president of the American Association of Medical Colleges, in a
phone interview. Exhibit No. 1 in his case is 47 million Americans without
health insurance.

"We cannot treat this as a political issue that somebody else has to deal with.
When you're taught medical ethics you are taught to work to create fairness for
all patients," he said. "Physicians need to start viewing this as a professional
and ethical problem and get more engaged in the discussion and make the kinds of
decisions to create more fairness."

On Saturday, the U. medical school will award 287 degrees, including 154
doctorates and masters in human genetics, public health, biochemistry,
neuroscience and other health fields. While health education is growing at the
U., its output of medical graduates is expected to decline.

The medical school shrunk its incoming class by 20 spots to 82 after a shift in
Medicaid reimbursement last year cost it $10 million a year. When the
budget-stressed Legislature declined to backfill the lost revenue, the school
had little choice but to cut class size -- even in the face of a looming
physician shortage -- lest it jeopardize its accreditation, said the school's
dean, David Bjorkman.

Among this year's 99 medical degree recipients is a genetics researcher who
switched to medical school because she tired of being bitten every day by test
mice. She soon developed an interest in pediatric genetics.

"In my third year, I decided I liked working with parents on ways to get
chronically ill children home," said Debra Regier, 36. She grew up in an
agricultural hamlet in California's Central Valley, earned a doctorate in
biochemistry at Wake Forest University, and came to Utah in 2000 to work at the
Huntsman Cancer Institute.

Regier will head to Washington, D.C., to do her residency at the Children's
National Medical Center. She also will be doing genetics research with the
National Institutes of Health, furthering her interest in congenital metabolic
diseases. She hopes to develop treatments that will prevent these disabilities
from developing.

"It's a privilege to be a part of these kids' lives," Regier said.

Kirch finds such motivation worthy of applause. He hopes to see young doctors
also "analyze their personal role in creating a just or unjust society."

Kirch's address will build on themes he developed in an article published last
month in the Journal of the American Medical Association. He agreed to speak at
the U. because he supports the medical school's direction and has personal
connections to Bjorkman and senior vice president for health sciences Lorris
Betz.

"He will challenge us to do things that aren't easy, but are important,"
Bjorkman said. "He says things the way they are. He doesn't pull any punches."

Kirch contends compensation structures have distorted ethical tenets and erected
barriers to improving health care. One result is a dysfunctional system of
health care delivery that underserves the poor, made painfully clear in the
Katrina aftermath. Another result is a shortage of doctors performing the kind
of preventive and primary medicine that offers the broadest social benefits.

"We've created a health care system that under-rewards primary care," he said.
"It is understandable that students don't pursue that."

Now is the time for doctors to think about the ethical foundations of their
profession because of the immediacy of health care reform.

"A lot of physicians feel they have no choice and have to stay on the sideline,"
Kirch said. "The danger is the decisions will be political decisions rather than
ethically grounded decisions."

bmaffly@sltrib.com University of Utah School of Medicine to graduate 287

When » 10 a.m. today

Where » Kingsbury Hall on the U. of U. campus.

Speakers » Darrell Kirch, president of the American Association of Medical
Colleges; Mohammad Umar Farukhi, class co-president; Lynn Jorde, U. professor of
human genetics.

Degrees awarded » 287 total (37 bachelors; 106 master's; 48 doctorates; 96
medical doctors).

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Detrick/The Salt Lake TribuneDebra Regier was a genetics
researcher who tired of being bitten by lab mice. She will graduate Saturday
from the University of Utah as a medical doctor and will head off to a career
researching congenital metabolic diseases in children.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            October 15, 2012 Monday

Harris, Renz say how they'd fix state budget

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 648 words


The 53rd House District is currently represented in Springfield by state Rep.
David Harris of Arlington Heights. His Democratic opponent in the Nov. 6
election is Curt Renz of Arlington Heights. Here is an excerpt of their Q&A for
the Daily Herald -- you can see their entire Q&As on www.dailyherald.com.

Q. How, specifically, would you cut the budget? What does Illinois need to do to
fix its status as a "deadbeat" state? How will you vote on future gambling
bills? What is your view of slots at racetracks? Casino expansion?

David Harris: While receipts to the General Revenue fund have increased
substantially over the past several years because of income tax increases and
overall increased economic activity, the amount of tax dollars appropriated for
day-to-day state operations is decreasing. From FY'12 to FY'13, the decrease was
$900 million. The reason for the decrease is that other payments are taking the
lion's share of GRF.

GRF receipts for FY13 are projected to be $33.7 billion. However, off the top of
that amount comes pension payments ($5.2 billion), debt service on pension bonds
& notes ($1.5 billion); debt service on other borrowing ($600 million); Medicaid
($6.6 billion); group health insurance ($1.1 billion); transfers out ($2
billion); and payment of old bills ($800 million).

That leaves about $16.4 billion to spend on all the other areas of state
government, a figure that is $900 million lower than last fiscal year. The
pension payments are crowding out our ability to properly fund other necessary
services of state government. We have got to get these under control if we have
any hope of changing our "deadbeat" status.

How I will vote on future gambling bills is determined by what the proposed
legislation says. I voted against the initial riverboat/casino bill when it was
passed. I do not generally favor the expansion of gambling. I do not believe, as
many have said, that it is a source of substantial revenue growth; there is a
cannibalizing effect with other casinos when new casinos are established. At the
same time I have said I could support a casino in Chicago that is run by a
private entity and overseen by the Illinois Gaming Commission and not the city
of Chicago. I could support slots at Arlington Park

Curt Renz: Continue to implement the "Budgeting for Results" programs for which
state Sen. Kotowski, state Rep. Mussman and others have fought in the
legislature. This will mean reducing budgets not just for state agencies, but
also for third-parties that perform services on behalf of the state.

* Consolidate state executive offices in a manner similar to that of the federal
government.

* Reduce salaries and pensions for state officials including executives,
legislators, judges and university administrators.

* Continue to investigate savings in state-funded health programs while
minimizing the impact on citizens as much as possible.

* Consolidate and make state buildings and facilities more energy-efficient to
reduce operational expenses.

We can fix Illinois' economic perception with short-term independent legislators
who are far more likely to be fiscally responsible than career politicians
beholden to their parties and supporters.

Regarding future gambling bills and slots at the racetrack, this is a free
country and reasonable adults should be allowed to determine for themselves
whether to gamble. The state needs revenues and our citizens need jobs. Illinois
has had a lottery for decades and already allows some casinos. They provide
jobs.

I would support a gambling proposal that includes adequate ethical oversight by
the state. I will be staunchly consistent in my support for the new jobs,
alternate revenue and ethical oversight tied to this issue.

* To see the Illinois Board of Elections' new interactive map of redrawn
congressional and legislative boundaries, visit
http://gis.elections.il.gov/map_viewer/default.aspx.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Curt Renz David Harris Curt Renz

 David Harris

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              422 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 2, 2002

Jobs&Money: Jobs: Company vitae: Friends Provident Which this week announced
annual sales of pounds 343m

BYLINE: Nick Pandya

SECTION: Guardian Jobs and Money Pages, Pg. 31

LENGTH: 750 words


Any connection with Ross and Monica's friends?

Get real. That's just pleasure, while this is business. Although you might call
this company a friend for life. It sells life insurance and a variety of pension
and health insurance plans.

Has it had a long life already?

Oh yes, it was founded as the Friends' Provident Institution in 1832 in
Bradford, to provide life assurance for members of the Society of Friends, more
commonly known as Quakers. It was incorporated as a mutual life assurance office
by Act of Parliament in 1915.

Since then a series of acquisitions have transformed the firm. By 1999, when it
joined Eureko, a European alliance of mutual insurers, it had around pounds 38bn
of funds under management.

Blimey, that rare thing, a mutual financial institution?

Calm down, it's not any more. Last summer it was floated on the London Stock
Exchange. Its circular to members said that the listing would give it the
financial strength and flexibility to grow the business in a competitive
environment, which should improve investment returns for with-profits
policyholders.

Oh good, my mate is always going on about his policy.

Careful, it could ruin your friendship if you mention that Friends Provident has
slashed pay-outs on with-profits policies which mature this year. A policyholder
whose 25-year endowment matures this year will receive 12% less than if the
policy had matured last year. The cuts may mean some policyholders whose
endowments were in line to pay off their mortgages may not do so. The company
said it would update projections in November, fingers crossed.

What's it worth?

After posting annual sales of pounds 343m this week its shares were changing
hands at 201p, valuing the insurer at pounds 3.43bn.

Does it have an asset management operation?

Its separate asset management subsidiary, Friends Ivory & Sime, invests the
money that it receives from policyholders, as well as providing a fund
management service for other institutional clients. The business is quoted on
the UK stock market, with Friends Provident Group owning more than 60% of the
stock of this listed subsidiary.

Any pointers to impress its recruiting panel?

You should know about its ethical stance. Many of its customers wish to take
account of social, environmental and ethical considerations while providing the
investment characteristics that best serve them financially. So, to put
conscience before cash, it has developed an innovative process called
responsible engagement overlay (reo(R)).

Extra brownie points if you mention its Financial Adviser IFA Provider (2001)
Gold Medal for Best Pension Provider. Show some knowledge of its doctors sick
pay initiative, designed to ensure that hospital doctors are provided with an
income as soon as their NHS sick pay ceases. At present the NHS provides doctors
with full sick pay entitlement only after five years of service, before that the
actual amount of sick pay is dependent on the length of time since
qualification.

Give us a glimpse of workers' wage slips?

Average pay among its 6,800 staff works out at pounds 27,700.

Bet the bosses are insured against poverty?

Aren't they all. Top five basic boardroom salaries range from pounds 140,000 to
pounds 320,000.

Genuine equal opportunities or just lip service?

It aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without discrimination on the
grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, sex, sexual orientation or
disability in all its dealings with staff.

It says it backs up its equality of opportunity policy by evaluating jobs
fairly, and ensuring that all staff are equipped with the skills they need to
realise their potential and contribute effectively to the business. The ethnic
and gender composition of its workforce is monitored to enhance this policy.

It encourages staff to take up further training at in-house learning centres,
provided at its main offices. And it was the first company in financial services
to win accreditation from the British Association of Open Learning.

Is it keen on corporate social responsibility?

Very much so, its support for communities is channelled through charitable
donations and business partnerships supporting organisations such as the British
Heart Foundation, Cancer Research Campaign,The Salisbury Arts Festival and
Huddersfield Giants Rugby League Club.

Who fields job applications?

Brian Sweetland, Pixham End, Dorking, Surrey RH4 1QA.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              423 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                        June 3, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

MediCare International: Family Planning Abroad? You'll Need to Stay on Top of
the Costs, Says MediCare International

LENGTH: 497  words


June 3 -- The reputation of British businessmen and women is globally renowned,
not only for their expertise but also their ethical and transparent approach to
the workplace. As a result, Brits abroad make up one of the most important
groups of expatriate workers, with significant numbers living and working in all
the world's top business centres. Yet typically around 50% of this group of well
educated, generally senior level managers will have no international private
medical insurance, whilst according to research produced by Mintel, up to 55%
may be accompanied by their spouses and families.



For the successful expatriate, starting or adding to a family abroad is likely
to be a common occurrence and although having a baby can be one of the most
wonderful and rewarding experiences of your life, it can also be one of the most
stressful and traumatic times, should complications arise during pregnancy or
childbirth. Planning is everything, particular in the case of international
health insurance, since the potentially high cost of private maternity care and
childbirth support overseas means that expatriate medical insurance is only
likely to come into force once a potential mother has been enrolled in an
international health insurance plan for a continuous period of 12 months prior
to birth. In practice, this means cover needs to be put in place well before
falling pregnant.

All costs and treatment incurred which relate to a pregnancy before the end of
this 12 month period are excluded from cover and if you are already pregnant
before moving overseas you will not be able to buy international medical
insurance to cover the costs of your pregnancy.

Assuming a normal pregnancy which runs to term, the cost of giving birth in a
private hospital varies considerably, according to Medicare International who,
with nearly 30 years experience of supporting expatriates of all nationalities
worldwide and clients from 86 nationalities in 114 countries, has considerable
experience in this area. A problem-free childbirth in the Middle East would
normally be expected to cost around $4,000, whereas in the USA, costs are more
likely to start at $15,000. Throw in complications, such as the requirement for
a caesarean section and costs can easily rise by $14,000 in many hospitals
around the world, says MediCare International. Managing director Debbie Purser
cautions would-be mums to think ahead, particularly if they are having their
first child. "Whilst for the vast majority, childbirth is a problem free event,
for those planning their first child, the research shows that there is a
heightened risk, albeit a small one. For this reason, it is particularly
important to have appropriate private international medical cover in place
early, something we recommend all families do preferably before they leave the
UK."

Medicare International's Executive Plus policy offers up to $17,000 cover for
normal pregnancies and up to $42,500 for cases where complications arise.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              424 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 20, 2002, Saturday

SOUND BITES THE WEEK IN QUOTES

BYLINE: Compiled By Steve Purcell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 313 words

HIGHLIGHT: GORDON BROWN; ARIEL SHARON


"It'd be an awful lot for any man to take: public scrutiny, a mad family - the
Fergusons, not the others - and two granddaughters of the Queen."

- Fergie on her chances of remarrying

"We'll feel better when we meet the enemy. It is what God put marines on Earth
to do."

- RSM Tony Jacka, Zulu company, 45 Commando in Afghanistan

"Vicious, violent and horrible."

- Mo Mowlam on her former Cabinet colleagues

"I don't know if I'd altogether regard it as a compliment."

- Labour MP Gwyneth Dunwoody on being compared to Ann Widdecombe

"Since when has common sense mattered in Middle East politics?"

- Former Foreign Office minister David Mellor

"Apart from chain-smoking and drinking, I'm quite respectful of my body."

- Comedian Johnny Vegas

"I like red wine because it is more sophisticated, more complex and mature. It's
a bit like me - no longer young but not too old either."

- Mick Hucknall, who plans to make Simply Red wine

"Yeah, Mick's 1957 Merlot leg-opener is a real corker. Works every time."

- Radio DJ Jono Coleman on the Simply Red vintage

"How does that fit in with putting National Insurance contributions up? It
sounds like a bit of an own goal."

- Consultant Peta Longstaff to Tony Blair on new funds for the NHS

"It's a Budget to make our health service the best insurance policy in the
world."

- Chancellor Gordon Brown

"He used to be such a handsome man and now look at him: everything has dropped,
expanded and turned a funny colour."

- George Best on actor Robert Redford

"It's a great feeling of power to be naked in front of people"

- Ewan McGregor

HERO of the week

The Chancellor put his political future on the line in the Budget to save the
NHS.

VILLAIN of the week

Many civilians are suffering because Israel's leader has not ended his West Bank
offensive.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.


                              425 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Clinics must pay to remove implants, says top surgeon;
Implants crisis 'could leave clinics broke'

BYLINE: Stephen Adams; Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 780 words


MORE than one in 10 faulty breast implants could have ruptured, according to a
leading plastic surgeon, who said yesterday that private clinics should pay the
£150 million bill for removing them.

Fazel Fatah, one of the members of the government-commissioned panel
investigating the scandal, said that the clinics had an "ethical and moral
obligation" to patients after using the cheap implants.

Mr Fatah, president of the British Association of Plastic Surgeons, warned that
the number of faulty implants may be far higher than figures released by clinics
at the weekend. He said that all 40,000 women who have had the implants, which
use industrial grade silicone instead of medical grade, should have them removed
because of the potential risk of them rupturing.

The price of the implants when sold was so low it was "too good to be true", he
said, and claimed that they were mainly used by "cut-price" clinics. "My
personal view is the clinics which originally profited from these implants have
an ethical and moral obligation to these patients," he said.

If the industry failed to act, women would quickly lose confidence in it, he
argued. His call for private clinics to pay, rather than the NHS, was welcomed
by Tory and Labour MPs. The removal cost has been estimated at £150million. Mr
Fatah, who runs both a private and an NHS clinic, said it was "quite possible"
that the true rupture rate, as a percentage, was in double figures,
significantly higher than the seven per cent reported at the weekend by
Transform, Britain's biggest cosmetic surgery chain.

The Medical Healthcare and products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) had previously
estimated that fewer than one per cent had ruptured. The discrepancy led Andrew
Lansley, the Health Secretary, to call for the MHRA to review its data. He also
convened the expert panel to make recommendations.

On Sunday, Tim Goodacre, another surgeon on the panel, said all implants should
be removed if Transform's figures were verified. Mr Fatah went further. He said:
"The implants are not fit for purpose; they are not fit for use in humans.

"Regardless of the rupture rate, they should be taken out because the silicon is
not of medical grade." He said there was "no doubt the MHRA figures are
unreliable" because they were based on voluntary reporting of rupture, which
rarely happened. Even when the implants had not ruptured, he said there was
evidence that the silicon could leak, blocking lymph nodes and causing pain and
inflammation.

The 40,000 women who are thought to have PIP breast implants, include about
3,000 NHS patients for whom they were used for breast reconstruction after
cancer surgery. The Department of Health's position remains that there is "no
evidence ... that they [women] should have the PIP implants removed" if they
have not ruptured.

But that could change tomorrow, when the panel convenes to discuss the data and
make recommendations.

Many clinics fear they will be put out of business if made to pay the full costs
of removal and say it is unfair for them to shoulder the whole burden when they
bought the PIP implants in good faith. The estimated removal cost is higher than
the £100 million annual turnover of the UK breast implant industry.

Women have reported that some clinics have tried to charge them £3,000 for
removal, although others have offered to do so free of charge.

Last night Andy Burnham, the shadow health secretary, said private clinics "must
arrange for urgent removal at no expense to the individual and with any costs to
the NHS reimbursed".

They should also give women free access to their medical records, so they could
check if they had PIP implants or not, he said. Stephen Dorrell, the
Conservative MP and chairman of the Commons health select committee, said the
cost of removing implants should be recovered from those who provided
"substandard products".

"Having said that, clearly if there is a health issue involved then ultimately
the NHS exists to provide health assurance for all patients in the UK," he
added.

Poly Implants Protheses (PIP), the French company that made the implants,
substituted cheaper industrialgrade silicon for medical-grade silicon several
years ago.

At the same time, it also removed a protective outer layer, according to
industry reports, making the implants more prone to rupture.

It still sold them to clinics as containing medical-grade silicon, while
misleading investigators about the true materials. Yesterday, a French analysis
of the PIP implants, commissioned by radio station RTL, claimed they contained
Baysilone, Silopren and Rhodorsil. Baysilone is a fuel additive, while Silopren
and Rhodorsil and used in the production of rubber tubing.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     August 30, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Insurance firms eye genetic testing as way to help screen out bad risks

BYLINE: MICHELLE LALONDE GAZETTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. E7

LENGTH: 577 words


Canadian insurance companies are anxiously awaiting the day genetic testing will
help them screen out high-risk applicants for life insurance.

"Insurance companies are always hyper-paranoid about people coming to buy a lot
of insurance when they know they are going to die," said Dr. Sandy Lowdon,
vice-president (medical) of Crown Life Insurance Co. in Toronto.

Watching developments

It will be at least 10 years before genetic tests are cheap and accurate enough
to be used as standard medical assessment procedures, Lowdon said, but insurance
companies are watching developments with great interest.

Lowdon was appointed to the board of the Canadian Life Insurance Medical
Officers' Association in January to advise the association on genetic testing
and its applications for the industry.

Genetic testing - analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), which makes up genes
- can be used as a measure of an individual's risk of premature death from
genetically transmitted diseases.

Lowdon said the issue does not raise new ethical questions for insurance
companies.

"The technology is different but the question is still the same. We look at the
applicant and ask 'is this person going to have a standard life expectancy?' "

DNA tests now are too expensive - $ 200 to $ 1,000 - to be used as standard
medical tests by insurance companies to assess clients. But Lowdon says
insurance companies cannot afford to ignore the technology because some of their
clients already have access to it.

Most of the tests in Canada are currently done in academic laboratories.
Extended families are often studied and distant family members may learn they
carry a certain gene and will die prematurely.

"If people go out and buy a lot of insurance because they know they are going to
die and want their families to be a lot better off, then we are in trouble," he
said.

Jim Wright, a spokesman for the Canadian Life and Health Insurance Association,
said none of its 110 member firms is considering adding genetic testing to its
medical assessments just yet.

But he said the association has no ethical hesitations about using the
technology as soon as it becomes practical.

"We have been doing genetic testing for years in a way. Taking family medical
histories is genetic testing in a crude form."

But by the time genetic testing becomes a practical tool for insurance
companies, legislators may decide access to DNA information violates privacy
rights.

Bruce Phillips, the federal privacy commissioner, is preparing a report dealing
wth that implication of genetic testing. In his last annual report, published in
July, he sounded a note of warning about private-sector uses of genetic testing.

"The privacy implications of genetic testing demand that the government consider
whether there should be direct regulation of any private-sector uses of this
highly intrusive technology," he wrote.

Joint review called for

In its latest report, the Science Council of Canada called for a joint review of
the issue by the life insurance industry, consumer groups and government
agencies.

"The health-care system in Canada, with some exceptions, does not provide
genetic testing technologies," said Dr. Charles Scriver, a leading Canadian
geneticist who practices at Montreal Children's Hospital, and a member of the
Science Council. "What we are asking for is an open discusson of whether it is
time to put these technologies to use."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1991 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 23, 1998, Tuesday

Simple test is found to spot schizophrenia; Royal College of Psychiatrists'
conference

BYLINE: GLENDA COOPER

SECTION: NEWS; Page 10

LENGTH: 450 words


DOCTORS HAVE discovered a test for schizophrenia which could help to detect the
disease earlier, thus making it easier to treat sufferers.

The simple test which measures the level of sulphite in the urine has shown the
chemical is particularly high in those suffering from schizophrenia.

South Thames health authority is now considering patenting the test.

However, mental health charities warned that the discovery raised "ethical
dilemmas", particularly if insurance companies insisted on using it while
considering life assurance.

One person in a hundred will be diagnosed at some time in his or her life with
schizophrenia. There are currently 250,000 people in the United Kingdom
suffering from the illness.

Mental health charities estimate that the cost of caring for those with a severe
mental illness is about pounds 500m a year.

The Royal College of Psychiatrists' annual conference was told that studies at
both Guy's and St Thomas' hospitals in London have discovered that those
suffering from schizophrenia have high levels of sulphite in their urine - an
abnormal build up of metabolic by-product.

But because the 35 patients who were examined were all on medication, it was
originally thought that it could be as a result of the drugs they were taking.

However, Dr Theodore Soutzos, specialist registrar at the Guy's and St Thomas'
NHS Trust, said that preliminary research suggests that levels of sulphite are
equally high in those people who show symptoms of schizophrenia for the first
time - suggesting that high levels of sulphite are nothing to do with the
medication.

He had examined patients who had only suffered one episode and who had taken no
drugs and the results were the same.

"This is groundbreaking research," he said. "The mere concept of being able to
measure something like this is unheard of.

"If we can use this to diagnose schizophrenia earlier then it means it is easier
to control and we can give people smaller doses of anti-psychotic drugs, which
often have serious side-effects."

Dr Soutzos added: "If you can prevent the patient developing schizophrenia, you
can improve the outcome and the patient may make a full recovery."

Mind, the charity which campaigns on mental health issues, warned that the test
could be used in ways which would not aid the mentally ill.

"We would be concerned," said a spokeswoman yesterday. "A survey we did found
that people with diagnoses such as schizophrenia or manic depression often faced
discrimination over life assurance, mortgages, health insurance and car
insurance so this test raises ethical dilemmas, if people were to have to take a
medical."


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd


                              428 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 12, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ETHICS: SOME CRITICIZE WASHINGTON'S 'REVOLVING DOOR.'

BYLINE: Thomas Farragher, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1118 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Norman Mineta's decision to quit Congress for the executive suite at
Lockheed Martin Corp. - a step he calls a logical career move - is further proof
that Washington's "revolving door" hasn't slowed, public watchdog groups said
Monday.

The San Jose Democrat has broken no law in going to work for a company that
pumped money into his campaigns. And his supporters Monday were quick to say
that those who question his move to private life are making a mountain out of an
ethical molehill.

"People are entitled to change jobs every 20 years if they feel like it," said
former Rep. Willis D. Gradison Jr., R-Ohio, who left in the middle of his term
in 1993 to take a job as president of the Health Insurance Association of
America.

Public interest groups argue that even though Mineta insists he will not be a
lobbyist and will not abuse his congressional connections, public cynicism is
fed any time there's an appearance of a private reward for public work.

But even the most zealous reformers who want to extend the waiting period on
lobbying by ex-lawmakers from one to five years do not have a prescription for
stopping members from simply going to work for companies with business before
Congress.

To be sure, Mineta collected tens of thousands of dollars in campaign
contributions from his new employer over the years and has worked for programs
favored by the aerospace giant. As chairman of the Public Works and
Transportation Committee and later as ranking member, Mineta had responsibility
for some projects sought by Lockheed.

But Mineta aides note and campaign records confirm that the campaign cash from
the company was not conspicuously larger than Mineta received from some other
big corporate benefactors.

Lockheed a big employer

And, because Lockheed is one of the biggest employers in Mineta's district, he
was a natural friend to the company.

"Absolutely not," Mineta replied when asked in an interview if he felt his new
post as senior vice president for a Lockheed transportation-systems division
presented an ethical conflict.

A Lockheed spokesman said an internal review of company records indicates the
corporation never lobbied Mineta on any transportation issues for which he'll
assume responsibility when his resignation takes effect Oct. 10.

But public watchdog groups called Mineta's job switch another indication that
the "revolving door" - in which ex-lawmakers exchange legislative experience and
political savvy for lucrative private careers - still whirs in Washington.

"He may not roam the halls of Congress and say, 'Vote for this. Vote for that.'
But that is a very narrow way of looking at lobbying these days. It's far more
insidious," said Alex Benes, managing director of the Center for Public
Integrity, a non-profit, non-partisan research group that focuses on government
and ethics.

"Sure, he's abiding by the letter of the law. But who's he going to have dinner
with, or who is he going to advise? He's using knowledge that he acquired at
taxpayer expense to suit the needs of a private company," Benes said.

That kind of talk goes too far even for some Republicans, who said Mineta has
served the Congress with distinction and has every right to move into a private
post for which he is qualified.

"Don't you guys have anything better to do?" asked an incredulous Jack
Schenendorf, Republican staff director of the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee, where Mineta is the top Democrat.

Mineta 'has a right'

"He's leaving Congress and he has a right to go out there and earn a living.
What's he supposed to do? By this standard, all members of Congress would be
unemployable," Schenendorf said.

Mineta's fund-raising in the last year of his chairmanship of the public works
panel reflects the broad breadth of work overseen by that committee more than it
does particular interest from his new employer.

According to the Center for Responsive Politics, last year Mineta received
$138,195 from transportation-related political action committees, more than any
other candidate for the House in 1994. He also was the top recipient of
construction-related PAC money, receiving $69,800.

Lockheed Corp. and Martin Marietta Corp. merged last March to form the nation's
largest defense contractor. In 1994, Mineta received a total of $10,000 in
campaign contributions from the two corporations, half of the maximum allowed
from the two companies combined.

According to federal campaign records, from Jan. 1 through June 30 of this year,
Mineta received $5,000 from a Lockheed Martin employees political action
committee.

Joshua Goldstein, the Center for Responsive Politics' research director, said
Mineta should be taken at his word when he said he has no intention of putting
his public prominence to work for Lockheed.

'Raises some eyebrows'

"But it does raise the specter of the revolving door and of public servants
turning around and working for people they've regulated as members of Congress,"
Goldstein said. "It certainly does raise some eyebrows."

Mineta is hardly the first congressman to leave politics for business.

According to a study of the 353 lawmakers who left Congress between 1984 and
1993, 93 became lobbyists, including Gradison.

Gradison, a former big-city mayor like Mineta, said he has been barraged with
criticism ever since by those who charge he let his constituents down and forced
Ohio taxpayers to pay for the special election to fill his seat.

"Norm and I came to Congress at the same time in 1975 and I think it's fair to
say that neither of us were job-hoppers," Gradison, a former Cincinnati mayor,
said Monday. "I think the criticism is unfair."

And Gradison gave this advice to Mineta: Ignore the critics.

"I wouldn't answer them if I were Norm," said Gradison. "Once you make the
announcement, you're in the private sector and don't have to answer them if you
think you did the right thing and you can live with yourself. You're no longer
in the fishbowl."

Ron Jury, chief of public relations for Lockheed, called it a "cheap shot" and
"absolutely ridiculous" for public watchdog groups to question a career change
of a politician with a 20-year record of integrity.

"People serve in a variety of public settings. Maybe you serve in the military
and fly a plane and go off and use those skills in the private sector," said
Jury. "That's not a conflict."

Standing at his childhood home Monday as he made his resignation announcement,
it was clear Mineta is at peace with himself.

"I'm clear in terms of my own conscience, about the record I have and about the
decision and the timing and making this effective Oct. 10." he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Retirement of Rep. Norman Mineta
Related story [page 1A, 13A, 14A]
Mercury News Staff Writer Mike Cassidy contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Mineta's distict
[950912 FR 13A 1]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday

Kathleen Sebelius defends her fundraising for Obamacare

LENGTH: 492  words


Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius has admitted that she
talked to three additional groups about publicizing the health care law - but
she's digging in against GOP suggestions that her outreach efforts were
improper.


Appearing before Congress for the first time since news broke about her calls to
drum up support from outside groups, Sebelius on Tuesday had a slew of defenses
ready to go. She said her calls were legal, appropriate and no different than
what her Republican predecessors had done in similar situations.
HHS earlier confirmed that Sebelius had asked H&R Block and the Robert Wood
Johnson Foundation to contribute to Enroll America, a nonprofit doing health law
outreach that is working closely with President Barack Obama's Organizing for
Action. Sebelius told the House Committee on Education and the Workforce that
she had also called three health groups - Ascension Health, Johnson & Johnson
and Kaiser Permanente - but did not ask them for money.
"There were a very small handful of phone calls I made; ... exactly what my
predecessors have done; exactly the type of public, private partnership we
always anticipated would happen," Sebelius told the panel.
"I'm not raising money for HHS; I'm raising it for enrollment and outreach
activities so Americans can connect with the benefits [of the health care law],"
she added.
Sebelius pointed to similar efforts by Mike Leavitt and Tommy Thompson, who are
former heads of HHS and Republicans, to publicize the prescription drug benefit
in Medicare Part D and the Children's Health Insurance Program.
And she said she had not solicited funds from groups regulated by HHS - but
maintained that the Public Health Service Act allows her to if she wishes.
"I could legally solicit funds by anybody regulated by our office," she said. "I
chose not to do that."
Sebelius's actions have infuriated Republicans who have suggested she may have
crossed legal or ethical boundaries.
"If health care officials say they felt pressure to make donations to Enroll
America, your response would be what?" Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) asked Sebelius.

"I can't answer what they felt," Sebelius responded.
Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.) said he's worried that the administration is acting
"outside the norm and certainly outside legal limits."
But Rep. Susan Davis (D-Calif.) noted that no one complained about publicity
efforts when Medicare Part D was being rolled out.
On the Senate side, Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), ranking member of the Finance
Committee, issued a highly critical statement about her House testimony, saying
she "admitted to having pressured the very companies her agency regulates" and
that it raises serious ethical and legal questions.

"The message being sent by the Obama administration is get behind this private
group, run by a former White House staffer, and we'll give you more favorable
treatment when it comes to regulations," he said. "That's bullying plain and
simple."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              430 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           September 30, 2008 Tuesday

Kidney transfers: Not a time to be closed-minded

SECTION: REVIEW - EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 451  words


HEALTH Minister Khaw Boon Wan is moving to bring Singaporeans' attitudes towards
compensation for kidney donors up to a more practical level, from what in many
cases has been a deeply moralistic position.

The Human Organ Transplant Act possibly could be updated, as early as next year,
to permit 'reimbursing' donors for such things as temporary loss of earnings,
recuperation and future care as a result of medical problems that may arise from
giving up one kidney.

Is the minister moving too fast, knowing there is a deep core of opinion which
holds that all forms of monetary payment for organ transfers are repugnant,
whatever the refinements?

We do not think Mr Khaw is ahead of his time conceptually, but he should give
latitude for the issue to be ventilated. The ethical objections raised in any
society, East and West, have not changed over the years. Conversely, a black
market inhabited by middlemen, rogue surgeons and kidnap gangs is active in poor
countries, in India for instance, in spite of tough legal sanctions. It makes a
justifiable case to drive out such nefarious practices - exactly the
exploitation and disregard for human dignity conscientious objectors rail
against - by making legal acceptable forms of compensating donors.

Two issues are at play. The first is that the moral absolute which sees any
financial recompense as 'commodifying' the giving of organs is getting harder to
sustain. By the same token, objectors would do just as well opposing the sale of
blood and the banking of donor sperm. Nothing can move forward if absolutists
close their minds to societal change, which is not the case in the more liberal
of societies. In Singapore, objectors should be given a respectful hearing but
they ought to reciprocate by being receptive to what precisely Mr Khaw will be
proposing in the way of reimbursements to be borne by the recipient. The
minister should quickly provide the details.

Second is the delicate matter of convincing doubters that not all forms of
payment are created equal; equally objectionable, that is. Other countries have
tried variations on compensation, as distinct from open bidding. Israel has a
law that provides a kidney donor with a financial package to compensate for lost
earnings through surgery and recuperation. Holland has been mulling the offer of
free health insurance for life to a donor, notionally costing about &yen1,000 (S
$2,080) a year. In Australia, a surgeon offered a radical proposal: peg the
price of a donor kidney at $50A,000 (S $59,000) and let the federal government
regulate the transfer.

As is evident, ideas to get a society out of a values predicament are pouring
forth. Can Singapore be an ethical backwater in such ferment?

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              431 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

Big data's burgeoning healthcare role causes increased legal, ethical concerns

LENGTH: 385  words


From Facebook to the doctor's office, our information is continually being
collected and analyzed. Now the question lies in what data should be accessible,
and by whom.
When it comes to doctors, people are sharing their information with the view
that they are looking out for your best interests, unlike a company such as
Facebook, Glenn Cohen, a professor of health law and ethics at Harvard Law
School, says in an interview with Vox.com.


"[Doctors are] paid, but we have a whole bunch of regulations in place to make
sure that healthcare professionals don't act out of their own interests. ... It
seems to me that Facebook is not the same kind of relationship, and we've never
pretended otherwise," Cohen tells Vox.
In the interview, Cohen talks about the issues surrounding collection and
consent of patient information, saying they are like "a see-saw, where you have
consent on the one side and privacy and de-identification on the other side."
Cohen and other researchers from the University of California, San Francisco and
the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center recently published a study
in Health Affairs on the legal and ethical implications of using predictive
analytics models.
Cohen tells Vox that the more a patient's privacy is invaded, the more robust
consent mechanisms are needed. One key to making data collection easier for
doctors is de-identification. The more that happens, he says, the harder it is
to identify data from a particular individual--and proceeding without individual
consent seems more ethical.
What's more, Cohen says, patients should go through an informational session
when entering a practice in order to better understand what it means to have
their information in a database, and then possibly opt out.
However, he adds, even with legal protections, "there could be some entities or
people who want to use the data for purposes that will widen health disparities,
not solve them."
Others have also proposed ideas and concerns over the security and use of big
data. The Federal Trade Commission recently called for more transparency in how
data brokers compile and use consumer information. In addition, the White House
released a report in May on HIPAA, saying it may not be enough to ensure the
privacy of patient health information.
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              432 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Computerworld

                               December 18, 2000

Hospital Confirms HackerStole 5,000 Patient Files;
 Supposed ethical hacker infiltrated system last summer

BYLINE: Marc L. Songini

SECTION: NEWS - HIGH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 543 words

A major university hospital in Seattle last week confirmed that a hacker
penetrated its computer network this past summer and made off with files
containing information on approximately 5,000 patients.
Officials at the University of Washington Medical Center said the hacker, who
calls himself "Kane,"stole users' passwords and copied thousands of files while
he had access to the hospital's systems. The hacker slipped into the network
through an exposed Linux server in the hospital's pathology department, said
medical center CIOTom Martin.
The medical center suspected at the time that its network had been infiltrated
and took steps to cut off the hacker's access, Martin said. But, he added, the
hospital was unaware that the files had been pilfered until Kane provided
information about the intrusion to SecurityFocus.com, a San Mateo, Calif.-based
Web site that focuses on security issues.
Outlaw or Whistle-blower?
Kane, who told SecurityFocus that he lives in the Netherlands, shared some of
the copied files with the security Web site to verify that he had accessed the
sensitive data. SecurityFocus.com staffer Kevin Poulsen said Kane views himself
as an ethical hacker and indicated that he simply wanted to expose the
vulnerability of the hospital's network. "He portrays himself as more of a
whistle-blower than as an outlaw," Poulsen said.
But after being informed of the file-copying, officials at the medical center
reported the hacking incident to the FBI for investigation, Martin said. The
hospital also beefed up its firewalls in an effort to better protect its
network, and it began notifying all of the patients whose personal information
was in the files that Kane copied.
In a statement, the hospital said the copied information wasn't directly related
to the delivery of care to its patients. Rather, the information was stored in
administrative databases and was used for patient tracking and following up on
research studies.
"There is no evidence that anyone has breached our main electronic medical
records system," said the hospital in a statement. "We assure patients and the
public that this system remains fully protected by the highest levels of
security possible."
Martin said Kane used sniffer software to steal the electronic identifications
of a number of hospital employees from the exposed server and then used those
credentials to access files related to patients in the medical center's
cardiology and rehabilitation departments.
Martin said the hospital will be compliant with the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (HIPAA), a set of privacy and security guidelines that
the federal government is close to finalizing.
Wes Rishel, an analyst at Gartner Group Inc. in Stamford, Conn., described
Kane's intrusion as "a classic penetration of a secondary system" that was
running a personal application with collected data, rather than an attack on the
hospital's main database server.
"Academic medical centers are prone to this, as part of the spirit of academic
freedom that creates pressure for open access,"Rishel said. The only major
impact from the hacking incident might be to get policy-makers in Washington to
push the HIPAA through as quickly as possible, he added.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 Computerworld, Inc.


                              433 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                     April 11, 2001 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

Parents' agony brushes ethical considerations aside

BYLINE: Don Martin

SOURCE: Calgary Herald

SECTION: COMMENT, Pg. A17 In Ottawa

LENGTH: 915 words


When your child is dying for want of an organ transplant, ethical considerations
are the first casualty. You don't care how or who or where, just when the
transplant occurs -- and the sooner, the better.

The heartbreaking story of Camilo Sandoval, the six-month-old B.C. baby who died
last weekend in New York from liver transplant complications, was uncomfortably
familiar and yet distressingly different to me.

We also watched our son's skin turn that sickly jaundiced yellow as his liver
functions failed and cringed at sliding a feeding tube through his nose, trying
to force that frail body to grow strong enough to withstand a gruelling date
with the transplant team.

We understood the cruel irony of the situation -- that to qualify for top spot
on the North America transplant waiting list, his health would have to
deteriorate dramatically. In a world chronically short of donated organs, the
most critically ill usually get the call first, even though they're least able
to withstand the rigors of the surgery.

Like Camilo, our son Craig suffered from biliary atresia, the inexplicable
blockage of bile ducts exiting the liver, and required a transplant when he was
nine months old. And like Camilo, he was flown to the United States for a
transplant that ultimately failed.

The differences were twofold.

Alberta health insurance covered the entire cost of Craig's transplant.

Public fundraising was required for Camilo's operation.

A Toronto youngster died to give Craig a new liver. Camilo's donor was alive, a
volunteer and an acquaintance.

The Camilo case puts an ethical wrinkle in the advancing science of
transplantation.

What if, instead of languishing on a waiting list, you only needed to find
someone with a big heart and a compatible blood type to save your child's life?

That's the unique beauty of the liver. Unlike other vital organs, it has
regenerative abilities. Live donors, usually relatives, are increasingly called
upon in dire circumstances.

The ethical queasiness comes when the donor is a stranger. The motives of
someone voluntarily taking on such a high-risk surgical situation are hard to
fathom to most mere mortals. It raises the distasteful possibility of donors
privately selling slices of their livers to desperate parents willing to give
anything for their child's second chance at life.

That's why Canada bans the procedure, forcing Camilo's parents to plead for help
in financing an operation permitted in New York's Mount Sinai Hospital.

But Camilo's case may have done more harm than good to raise public awareness
and support for pediatric liver transplantation from adult donors. The family
took what should have been the desperate action of last resort by flying to the
United States on the wings of a provincewide fundraising blitz when, as it turns
out, it was merely a preferred option.

Camilo's donor wasn't a complete stranger, opening up the possibility it could
have been done in Canada. The liver transplant centres in Edmonton and London,
Ont., are world-class facilities, but this donor apparently preferred the
customer service in New York. Those who contributed to Camilo's emergency
fundraising blitz probably feel deceived about the urgency of his plight and
some may want their money back.

But the parent's motives are entirely in keeping with anyone trapped in their
situation. If there's a willing donor, it's a godsend. If that donor wants the
procedure performed on the Alpha space station, you'd move heaven and earth to
accommodate their demand. Nothing else matters.

I clearly remember helplessly standing in the recovery room of the Pittsburgh
Hospital the day before my son died in 1986 when liver transplant pioneer Thomas
Starzl walked by his bed. He paused to read the charts documenting Craig's dire
straits as his transplanted liver failed, listened to our pleas to help produce
a miracle and lamented the long odds of finding a suitable donor for a second
operation.

One day, he mused, there would be live donors, sacrificing part of an adult
liver that would eventually grow into a full-sized healthy organ inside a child.
Naturally, we immediately offered ourselves as guinea pigs for the operation.

Starzl smiled ruefully and shook his head. Sorry, he said, that's a cure for
sick babies of the future.

Well, the future has arrived.

As live-donor procedures become increasingly safe, the new panel established by
Health Minister Allan Rock this week should go beyond merely raising organ donor
awareness to kick-start an ethical debate on the scientific advances in
transplantation.

If there's a way to ensure strangers are volunteering as live donors out of pure
human kindness, it's hard to argue against approving a practice that will surely
shorten the time children deteriorate on a waiting list.

It might sound ridiculously easy, but they might also consider a national
medical protocol compelling doctors or nurses to ask next-of-kin if the organs
of the deceased can be donated.

But mine is a tainted view. Like too many others, I've burned in parental hell
watching a child die on a waiting list. So if any young lives can be saved by
the compassion of perfect strangers or by doctors simply asking a difficult
question amid tragic circumstances, my ethical considerations are the first
casualty.

Don Martin can be reached at 613-751-3340 or by e-mail at
dmartin@sns.southam.ca. Read previous columns at
www.calgaryherald.com/columnists/

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              434 of 999 DOCUMENTS


            Colorado Springs Business Journal (Colorado Springs, CO)

                                August 31, 2007

Group picked to evaluate Colorado's health care reform proposals bought by
United Health subsidiary

BYLINE: Amy Guillentine

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 533  words


The Lewin Group is charged with a hefty responsibility: evaluating the five
health care reform proposals being considered by the 208 Commission, deciding
how much each would cost and determining how each would close the insurance
coverage gap.

But the Lewin Group might not be the most impartial of evaluators. The company
was purchased in June by Ingenix - a wholly owned subsidiary of United Health
Group Inc., Colorado's largest insurer.

Steve ErkenBrack, a member of the commission and vice president of legal affairs
at Rocky Mountain Health plans, said that he and his fellow commissioners aren't
worried about a conflict of interest. He said the Lewin Group was chosen because
it had performed similar evaluations in other states.

"They announced the purchase after the bid was awarded," ErkenBrack said. "We
had them come back because that was of great concern to the commissioners. We
were assured that there would be an 'ethical wall' between Lewin Group and
United Health Care. There would be no communication between them. There would be
no undue influence - no influence whatsoever. "

The commission was comfortable with that assurance, he said.

But not everyone interested in health care policy is so certain. Jay Norris,
owner of Insurance Shoppers Inc., said the appearance of bias is a problem for
Lewin and the commission.

"It may be something they know a lot about," he said. "But the group is supposed
to be independent. It certainly doesn't create a lot of comfort for people who
expect it to be independent, then find out that it's owned by the state's
largest insurance company. "

Regis University associate professor Mike Fisher said that everyone on the 208
Commission has a special interest in health care legislation.

"On the surface, there appears to be a conflict of interest," he said. "But I
can rationalize that by saying that it is a highly respected group. "

Questioning whether the consultants would allow their parent company to unduly
influence their judgment would be "unfair," he said.

"There's just no evidence that it occurred," he said. "It would be the easy
thing to do - say they were unduly influenced - but there's no evidence of that.
"

Marcy Morrison, state insurance commissioner, echoed Fisher's response, but
admitted that she was concerned that there might be a conflict of interest.

"We're proceeding in good faith; maybe it's naïve, (but) so far there's no
inkling of any bias," she said. "No one on the commission would want anything to
color the public's opinion, after all the hard work. "

Norris, however, maintains a healthy skepticism.

"It leaves those of us interested in health care policy to wonder if the
commission is just for show - nothing will actually get accomplished," he said.

And while there might be an "ethical wall" between Lewin Group and United Health
Group, Ingenix and Lewin share marketing and public relations departments. Joan
Schimml, who answers media inquiries for both companies, declined to answer
questions about the purchase and what procedures are in place to avoid any undue
influence.

The commission will seek public input about the proposals beginning in October.
Final proposals are due to the General Assembly in January.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Regulatory

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                    COUNTRY

Longer life expectancy bodes ill for future

BYLINE: KATHERINE FLEMING

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 645  words


Health experts urge Australians to look after their health or the economic
consequences could prove terminal

Health experts are warning people to look after themselves or face crippling
disease in old age, as our affluent society provides not only the technology to
keep them alive longer but also a way of life to make them fat and lazy.

They say an ageing population and ever-increasing life expectancy will have huge
consequences for Australian society, including financial, health and ethical
implications. The experts urge more debate and planning.

WA Aged Care Advisory Council chair Penny Flett said a strong health and
economic system meant now was a golden age to grow old in WA. But the excesses
of a comfortable society also were setting people up for obesity and major
illnesses.

The three epidemics facing the ageing population were diabetes, dementia and
depression, which often was a result of the elderly being isolated, Dr Flett
said.

Joe Kosterich, head of the Perth-based Australasian Institute of Anti-Ageing
Medicine, said it was not inevitable that old people would end up in nursing
homes if they looked after themselves.

More people were taking an interest in preventive medicine, seeking advice about
diet, exercise, sleep, herbal and vitamin supplements and stress management,
which he predicted would be a boom industry.

Caring for elderly people in their homes would be big business, as they
increasingly opted for independence rather than nursing homes, Dr Kosterich
said. Services could include delivering meals, doing washing and cleaning,
helping with bathing and supervising medication. Curtin University health
economist Gavin Mooney said aged care funding needed to be better coordinated
and put into keeping people in the community.

Higher taxation was inevitable to provide public services for the elderly, he
said. Taxpayer-funded services would mean private health insurance premiums
still would be affordable for non-chronic illnesses and younger people.

Dr Flett said people needed to be financially sensible and optimistic about
remaining independent. Retiring completely at 55 or 60 would not be possible for
many.

"They will continue to do work because maybe they need to keep earning money,"
she said. If you retire at 60 and you've got another 40 years, that is a long
time. Only 100 years ago, you didn't expect to live beyond retirement."

Dr Kosterich said there were important ethical questions. "Our capacity to keep
people alive just because we can is already there and is probably already
happening," he said. "How often that is a good thing is a debate the community
ultimately needs to have."

But Australian Medical Association ethics spokeswoman Rosanna Capolingua said
the debate was about respect for life and investment in health, not euthanasia.
"I have patients in their 80s and none of them want to die," she said.

Curtin University research fellow Ann Clarke said the elderly were under social
and cultural pressure to "take it easy" and be inactive.

Figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics show the number of people aged
over 85 grew 40.5 per cent between 1993 and 2003.

THE

UNDER SIEGE

ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE, DEMENTIA

Risks: not yet known

CATARACTS

Risks: over-exposure to sun

GLAUCOMA

Risks: diabetes

MOUTH AND THROAT CANCER

Risks: smoking and alcohol

LUNG CANCER

Risks: smoking

HEART DISEASE

Risks: smoking, high cholesterol, bad diet, obesity

LIVER CIRRHOSIS

Risks: long-term alcohol abuse

KIDNEY FAILURE

Risks: diabetes

COLON AND BOWEL CANCER

Risks: low fibre, high fat diet

IMPOTENCE

Risks: drinking, drugs, diabetes

DEEP VEIN THROMBOSIS

Risks: long plane flights, sedentary lifestyle

ARTHRITIS

Risks: not enough exercise, being overweight

OSTEOPOROSIS

Risks: not getting enough calcium at an early age

LEG AMPUTATION

Risks: diabetes, smoking

SKIN CANCER/ MELANOMA

Risks: over-exposure to UV rays

BUNIONS, TOE DEFORMITIES

Risks: ill-fitting shoes

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: THE UNDER SIEGE.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              436 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Children's Health Care

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 279 words


To the Editor:

Bob Herbert documents the human tragedies and absurd eventual financial costs
that result from our fragmented public insurance system (''Young, Ill and
Uninsured,'' column, May 19). The trouble is that all of the contemplated
expansions of coverage for children have an inherent flaw: they are based on the
same month-to-month, prove-you're-eligible, fall-through-the-cracks insurance
model that killed Devante Johnson.

The difference between universal coverage and universal health care is not
semantic; it is real and fundamental. If we truly want all children to get the
health care they need, then we must simply give all children the health care
they need, not require parents to repeatedly prove that their children are
worthy of publicly financed services.

When a child needs health care, he must be presumed eligible, not the opposite.
That's how every other civilized country in the world does it, and they do it
for a fraction of the cost we spend per capita in the United States.  Georganne
Chapin President and Chief Executive Hudson Health Plan Tarrytown, N.Y., May 19,
2007  To the Editor:

I think few would argue that we as a civilized country do not have a moral and
ethical obligation to provide health care to the needy. Perhaps real progress
will be made when politicians reframe the issue to demonstrate that universal
health insurance would actually save us all money.

To lose a young child after spending a quarter of a million dollars trying to
treat an infection that could have been prevented with an $80 procedure is
unethical, immoral, inexcusable and wastefully expensive.  Mitchell A. Adler,
M.D. Irvington, N.Y., May 19, 2007

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              437 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                            October 13, 1989, Friday

AIDS HITTING WORKPLACE

BYLINE: Journal of Commerce Staff

SECTION: INSURANCE, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The AIDS epidemic is hitting the U.S. workplace, and the shock waves of higher
costs and ethical dilemmas will grow for U.S. companies in coming years,
according to a survey of chief executive officers.

One in 20 companies has an employee or employees with AIDS, according to a poll
by The Executive Committee, a San Diego-based international organization erving
top corporate executives.

Of the 578 CEOs polled for the "AIDS in the Workplace" survey, 5.7 percent of
the respondents had an average of two AIDS-diagnosed employees in their
companies.

About 20 percent concluded that their companies' health insurance costs had
increased because of the AIDS problem. They indicated that their health
insurance costs had risen an average of 15 percent because of AIDS.

The remainder said they did not know whether the possibility of an employee
contracting AIDS had affected their insurance premiums.

And 12 percent of respondents said their companies provide education or training
about the disease.

The companies surveyed range in size from $ 2 million to $ 1 billion in annual
sales, with 25 to more than 1,000 employees. The respondents - all members of
The Executive Committee - were polled this summer about AIDS in their companies.

"Our members of The Executive Committee are just beginning to wrestle with the
issue of AIDS in their companies," said the group's president, William E.
Williams.

The committee has 1,800 members in the United States, Canada, Australia and
Great Britain. It also has members in Japan.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              438 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                     November 10, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Aflac, CAQ, Ethisphere to Host National Discussion on Business Ethics in Tokyo

LENGTH: 442  words


Nov. 10 -- Aflac, the leading provider of voluntary insurance sales at the
worksite in the U.S., and 10-time recipient of the Ethisphere World's Most
Ethical Companies award, today announced that Aflac Japan will sponsor the first
ever Ethisphere Institute Tokyo Ethics Forum, Moving Beyond Compliance to Create
an Ethical Corporate Culture, on November 14th. Also sponsoring the event is the
Center for Audit Quality (CAQ), a Washington D.C. based, nonpartisan, nonprofit
public policy advocacy organization. The summit, which will include panel
discussions titled Creating a Fraud Resistant Organization and Sustaining
Long-term Growth Through Culture, will be attended by 40-50 senior level
executives from well-known companies in Japan.

"This is a great opportunity for Aflac, Ethisphere and CAQ to further deepen
dialogue in Japan about the growing importance of creating corporate social
value, promoting ethics and governance in our changing world," Aflac President
Paul S. Amos II said. "More and more, younger generations are demanding
transparency and good governance before they will even consider doing business
with a company, and it is imperative that business leaders recognize this trend.
We are very excited to sponsor Ethisphere's inaugural event in Japan."

"Tokyo plays a unique role in the world economy," said Ty Francis, Executive
Vice President and Group Publisher, Ethisphere. "Our Tokyo Ethics Forum serves
as a catalyst for driving thought leadership among major companies and
executives to improve company performance, culture and value. It presents a rare
opportunity for members of the C-Suite to share best practices, connect and
engage in discussions that can help move the needle on ethical issues. Companies
are a critical part of the global ecosystem and those that lead with integrity
are in a position to influence the economy and change the world."

Aflac is a strong proponent of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's call for elevating
the role of women in the workplace in Japan, which has been dubbed,
"Womenomics". The Company has recently conducted forums on diversity in Tokyo,
inviting women from Aflac U.S. to Japan to discuss their roles in the Company as
women in leadership. Aflac Japan is on pace to meet Prime Minister Abe's goal of
having 30 percent of leadership positions held by women by 2020.

"In the context of a rapidly aging society, Japan's highly educated women
represent significant untapped potential, which is why Aflac is a major
proponent of diversity initiatives in Japan," Amos said.

The forum will begin at 1:30 PM Tokyo time. Follow the conversation on Twitter
under #TokyoEthicsForum.

Source: Aflac

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              439 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Japan News

                             March 31, 2015 Tuesday
                                   S Edition

Panel: Chiba Cancer Center failed to screen 7 fatal surgeries

SECTION: SOCIETY; Pg. 1; No. 23159

LENGTH: 241 words


CHIBA -- A third-party committee investigating the deaths of 11 patients who
received laparoscopic surgery at the Chiba Cancer Center said Monday that at
least seven patients received treatment without prior ethical screening despite
the extremely difficult nature of the operations, which were not covered by
public health insurance.

In a report released Monday, the panel said the operations were problematic
because they were performed without prior examinations to confirm whether it was
safe to conduct the surgeries.

The panel is headed by Kozo Tatara, chairman of the Japan Public Health
Association, and was established by the Chiba prefectural government. Comprising
experts specializing in medical safety, it began conducting a probe and
discussing future measures in July last year.

The prefectural government asked experts belonging to the Japan Surgical Society
who were familiar with laparoscopic operations to analyze the medical
examinations given to the patients who died after receiving surgery, as well as
internal procedures followed at the cancer center.

The panel examined 11 cases involving men and women aged 57 to 86 who received
surgery from June 2008 to February 2014. With 10 of the 11 patients, the report
said, there were such problematic findings as the failure to properly stitch up
organs that were cut during surgery, as well as insufficient postoperative
examinations that led to delays in dealing with that problem.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              440 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 18, 2002, Thursday

BROWN NHS STAFF 'OWN GOAL'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 161 words


CHANCELLOR Gordon Brown was today accused of scoring 'an own goal' by forcing
poorly-paid NHS staff to fork out an extra 1 per cent in National Insurance
contributions. Mr Brown was tackled by accident and emergency consultant Peta
Longstaff as he visited London's Chelsea & Westminster Hospital with Prime
Minister Tony Blair.

They made the visit in the wake of his Budget yesterday which promised an extra
pounds 40 billion funding for the health service over the next five years.

Ms Longstaff pointed out the NHS was the biggest employer in the country with
many poorly-paid staff.

She asked Mr Brown during a question-and-answer session: 'How does that fit with
putting National Insurance contributions up? It sounds a bit of an own goal.'

Mr Brown, sitting next to Mr Blair, replied: 'I would not have asked people to
pay more tax unless it was absolutely necessary. What we did was look at what
the health care needs in this country are.'

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              441 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                  All Editions

Governor set for Round 2

BYLINE: John Patterson, Daily Herald State Government Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1272 words


SPRINGFIELD - With the political pal once accused of trading state jobs for
campaign cash and the father-in-law who made, then retracted, those allegations
sitting in the crowd, Gov. Rod Blagojevich was sworn in for a second term
Monday, never mentioning the ethical questions that continue to dog him.

Instead, Blagojevich used his 20-minute inaugural address to tout past successes
such as expanded I-PASS use on the tollway and make the case for providing every
Illinois resident with health insurance.

"Let it be Illinois, the Land of Lincoln, that leads the nation out of our
national health-care crisis," said Blagojevich, 50, whose wife, Patti, and
daughters, Amy and Annie, accompanied him onstage.

His aides maintain county, state and federal investigations into his
administration have not and will not be a distraction, pointing to the
governor's re-election, making him the first Democrat to win a second term in
the office since Otto Kerner in 1964.

"This past November, the people made their decision. They've spoken. I read the
election as a mandate for action. And I intend to act," said Blagojevich, who
received just under 50 percent of the vote to best Republican Judy Baar Topinka
and the Green Party's Rich Whitney.

In touching on plans for increased education spending and health-care expansion,
Blagojevich put the business community on notice that he's likely to continue
pushing to do away with corporate tax breaks in order to come up with the money.

"So I will continue to reform a tax system that favors corporate loopholes over
the needs of the middle class and working poor, because fixing that system
strengthens our economy," he said.

Republicans cringed at what they perceived as the governor's ongoing attack on
business.

"I don't think raising business taxes is the right way or responsible way to
go," said House Republican leader Tom Cross of Oswego.

Looking on for Monday's ceremonies was Blagojevich's friend Chris Kelly who was
chairman of the inaugural event four years ago. Since then, Kelly was accused by
Chicago Alderman Dick Mell, Blagojevich's father-in-law, of trading state posts
for campaign donations. Mell later retracted those allegations, but not before
investigations were launched, producing a whirlwind of ethical questions about
Blagojevich's hiring and contracting practices.

Mell also was in attendance with a front-row seat. Four years ago, both he and
Kelly had seats on the stage.

While Blagojevich made no mention of his administration's ethics, nearly every
other statewide officer used his or her turn at the podium to call for tougher
ethics laws.

"In order to solve problems, government must work effectively. And it must have
the confidence of its citizens," said Comptroller Dan Hynes in calling for laws
that ban "pay-to-play" politics. "It's time to stop talking about ethics reform
and start making it happen."

Suburban lawmakers questioned how the governor plans to fund his new programs
given the growing problems keeping up with the current programs.

"Unless he's got some kind of a printing press in the basement for money, he'd
better figure out how he's going to pay for this," said state Rep. Rosemary
Mulligan, a Des Plaines Republican.

Blagojevich's second term culminates a Democratic sweep of political power.

Also sworn in Monday were Lt. Gov. Pat Quinn, Secretary of State Jesse White,
Attorney General Lisa Madigan, Hynes and Treasurer Alexi Giannoulias. All reside
in Chicago.

On Wednesday, the already Democratic-controlled Illinois House and Senate will
see their ranks grow when new lawmakers are sworn in.

So far, however, the Democrats have shown little ability to sustain a good
working relationship. Blagojevich has sparred at one point or another with
nearly every other statewide officer save Quinn, his running mate, and
Giannoulias, whose term just started.

Similarly, he's at times been at odds with Senate President Emil Jones Jr. and
House Speaker Michael Madigan, and those two are currently locked in their own
power play over how much ComEd customers should have to pay, among other issues.

But on Monday, Democratic leaders said those debates can wait for another time.

"This is the governor's day," said Jones. "I don't want to spoil it with
politics."

jopatterson@dailyherald.com

The inauguration

Donors: $103, 214.14 - the amount of in-kind and individual contributions that
Jasculca/Terman & Associates, the Chicago public relations firm that coordinated
the inaugural ceremonies, made to the Friends of Blagojevich between 2001 and
2005.

Unchanged: Four years ago, Patti Blagojevich was carrying daughter Annie during
the inauguration. On Monday, she was still carrying Annie during the ceremony.
The difference: Annie's almost 4.

Da Mayor: Chicago Mayor Richard Daley received arguably the loudest ovation when
he took the stage.

Obamarama: U.S. Sen. Barack Obama was not at Monday's ceremonies, but that
didn't stop a vendor from hawking Obama buttons outside the convention center,
including the hot pink "Hot chicks dig Obama" variety.

I'd like to buy a vowel: Gov. Rod Blagojevich gave a special nod to newly
sworn-in Treasurer Alexi Giannoulias - a man whose name also has been
slaughtered more than once. "I wonder what it must be like to walk through life
with a name that nobody can say," said Blagojevich of Giannoulias.

Punch line: House Speaker Michael Madigan has the reputation as a master
strategist whose every move and word seem calculated for maximum political
effect if not gain. That's why it was funny when Comptroller Dan Hynes joked
that his gravel voice was the result of a late-night drinking with Madigan. "He
loves the nightlife, you know," Hynes said.

Ironic coincidence: After everyone filed out, we found a placard reserving a
seat for Betty Bukraba. Nearby was a similar placard reserving a seat for a
"baby sitter." Bukraba has been a baby sitter for both Patti Blagojevich and her
daughters. The governor appointed Bukraba to a $21,000-a-year job on the
Illinois Civil Service Commission.

Missed it: Several suburban Republicans chose not to attend Monday's ceremonies.

Most important issue: Yes, the national championship football game was on at the
inaugural ball.

- John Patterson

Suburban reaction

Likes:

State Sen. Susan Garrett, a Lake Forest Democrat: "The uninsured issue affects
all economic levels of income; it's not just the poor and homeless."

State Sen. Randy Hultgren, Winfield Republican: "I'm thankful that he talked
about not raising taxes."

State Rep. Paul Froehlich, a Schaumburg Republican: "It was appropriately
concise; he's going to give us specifics and flesh out his agenda later."

State Rep. Elaine Nekritz, a Northbrook Democrat: "He talked about one of the
top issues that we have heard people ask about. Health care is certainly a top
priority."

Dislikes:

State Sen. John Millner, a Carol Stream Republican: "The statistics and some of
the information he provided may not be that accurate."

State Sen. Pamela Althoff, a McHenry Republican: "I didn't hear anything about
our obligations with regards to ensuring our pensions are paid for. That's of
significant importance to most of us here in the state of Illinois."

State Rep. Jack Franks, a Woodstock Democrat: "I was disappointed he didn't
focus on changing government as usual. We didn't hear about ending pay-to-play,
we didn't hear about ethics reform, and I think that's something voters really
want and citizens are looking forward to."

State Rep. Kathleen Ryg, a Vernon Hills Democrat: "I think it's pretty clear
what direction (Blagojevich) hopes to move in the next couple of years. But we
still have major challenges on how to pay for it all."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              442 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           February 11, 2017 Saturday
                             Print & First Editions

HCF quitting fossil fuels over dangers;
NEWS - Ethical investment

BYLINE: Patrick Hatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 188 words


HCF has become the first Australian health insurer to commit to divesting from
fossil fuels, saying it cannot keep funding activities that could threaten its
members' health.

The fund, with 1.5 million members, has $1.39 billion in equities through an
investment trust and says about 1 per cent of that, or $14 million, is in fossil
fuel holdings.

HCF decided to sell those shares after a review of its international investment
portfolio last year, but the not-for-profit insurer kept the move under wraps
until Friday.

"We tasked our investment advisors to identify a socially responsible investment
vehicle so as to ensure our money is not invested with companies or industries
that may impact the health and wellbeing of our members and the broader
community," HCF managing director Shaun Larkin said.

"We think this move brings our investment strategy into line with the
expectations of our members. We still have some way to go, but so far the
response from our members to the news has been positive."

The move came to light after HCF sent a member a letter later obtained and
circulated by carbon divestment group Market Forces.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              443 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The News Herald (Panama City, Florida)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 8, 2012 Sunday

Catholic directives now helps guide Bay Med

BYLINE: Chris Segal, The News Herald, Panama City, Fla.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 807 words


April 08--PANAMA CITY -- Bay Medical Center Sacred Heath Health System answers
to an authority different than the hospital's former special district board, now
that ethical and religious directives help govern the health care facility.

Bay Medical Center was leased for 40 years in a prepaid lease for $154 million
to joint venture partners Sacred Heart Health System and the LHP Hospital Group.
The lease has eliminated the hospital's debt and provided several million
dollars to the special district to form a foundation to help the ongoing health
needs of the community.

Although the public, not-for-profit hospital has turned to a private, for-profit
entity, hospital administrators doubt patients will see any difference in care
or services because of the Catholic directives.

As part of the Sacred Heart Health System, the hospital will operate under the
same Catholic directives as other hospitals in Ascension Healthcare, such as
Sacred Heart in Pensacola, but there will be minimal changes to the services
offered at Bay Medical, said Sacred Heart Health System Vice President Henry
Stovall.

"The Catholic directives agreement says we will not operate when there are
ethical or religious conflicts," Stovall said. "Bay Medical did not do abortions
before and they will continue to not do abortions now."

The Catholic directives aim to defend human life and dignity "from the moment of
conception to death." The Catholic Church does not endorse the use of birth
control and, therefore, the hospital will not perform sterilization procedures.
In the past year, Bay Medical performed less than 25 tubal ligations, which can
be performed elsewhere including other hospitals and doctors' offices, Stovall
said.

The hospital and the directives do not control what independent physicians do
within their own offices and they will be able to write prescriptions for
contraceptives.

Stovall said the directives would allow physicians to intervene to save a mother
at the risk of terminating a pregnancy. "We would not let the mother die," he
said.

The hospital also will form an ethics committee to aid physicians' concerns. The
committee will be made up of doctors, administrators and other staff members,
and they do not have to be Catholic, Stovall said.

The directives further state "compassionate and understanding care should be
given to a person who is the victim of sexual assault." A female who is raped
will be allowed to "defend herself against a potential conception from the
sexual assault." The rape victim would have to be tested to make sure conception
has not already occurred and can be treated with medications to prevent
ovulation or pregnancy.

"For the end-of-life care, the directives do not allow for physicians to end
someone's life early out of convenience, but they do not support the prolonging
and suffering of a patient or a hardship on the family," Stovall said.

The affiliation with Sacred Heart means that within the next six months,
religious icons, statues and crucifixes will be placed around the hospital.
Stovall explained there could be a statue of Jesus healing a leper in the lobby
and crucifixes in the patient care areas.

The employees of the hospital work for the LHP Hospital Group, so unlike other
Sacred Heart facilities in the Panhandle, the Bay Medical Center Sacred Heart
Health System will have contraceptives covered by their health insurance plans.

Finances

With the lease of the hospital and the transition to a for-profit entity, Bay
Medical, which had been exempt from property taxes, will become one of the
largest tax-paying entities in the county, although the exact tax bill isn't
known yet. LHP also had to pay $862,400 in documentary stamps to the Florida
Department of Revenue.

On Monday, a wire transfer deposited $154 million for the lease of the hospital
into the special district's bank account. Since then, the debt and bonds have
been paid and money has been going in and out as assets and liabilities are
settled, according to special district chairman Don Conner.

The special district will use some of its contact time allowed in the transition
agreement to meet with the hospital's chief financial officer to go over the
financials and find out whether there are outstanding payments due to the
district. The district staff, in turn, will continue to sign up retirees for
their health insurance. So far, a small percentage have signed up for their new
coverage, Conner said.

Once the money is secured and the board meets next month, board members are
expected to decide how much money they want to make available for health
care-related grants for this year.

"We are very excited to see what the health care needs are out there," Conner
said.

___ (c)2012 The News Herald (Panama City, Fla.) Visit The News Herald (Panama
City, Fla.) at www.newsherald.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120408-PY-Catholic-directives-now-helps-guide-Bay-Med-0408-20120408

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PY


                         Copyright 2012 The News Herald


                              444 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            January 5, 1992, Sunday

Health, medical ethics and values; Debating the major crisis facing America's
health-care industry

BYLINE: By Charles J. Doughertyhealth; care; costs; insurance; reform; medicine;
ethics

SECTION: EDITORIAL; SECTION C; PAGE 07

LENGTH: 844 words


Mr. Dougherty is director of the Center for Health Policy and Ethics.

Washington - "Crisis" has become the word of choice to describe the state of
U.S. health care. The statistics are grim: a $ 670 billion price tag eating up
12 percent of our gross national product, 34.7 million people without health
insurance, infant-mortality rates trailing 21 other countries.

Reforms have been proposed by virtually every health-care interest group.
Congress and state legislatures are seriously debating major systemic changes.
What they seldom address, however, is the crisis of values in our health-care
system.

This problem is most apparent in the health-care delivery system, the
doctor-patient relationship and the exotic new world of reproduction.

It is not enough to ask our doctors, politicians and administrators to grapple
with these vexing issues; we must find ways to broaden the debate so that the
public has ample opportunity to ask questions, voice concerns and shape
outcomes.

Perhaps the most difficult ethical challenge in health policy is raised by the
specter of health-care rationing. It is increasingly apparent that Americans are
reaching the financial and political limits of health-care spending. But how do
we say "no" in the face of genuine need?

This is the dilemma facing Oregon, whose legislature funded a bill that makes
the state the first to guarantee some level of health care to all residents
living in poverty. The tradeoff is an explicit program of rationing.

The doctor-patient relationship is another area where values questions are being
raised. The relationship between doctor and patient is the moral bedrock of
medicine dating from the Hippocratic oath. The oath and the tradition that
evolved from it hold that doctors are morally bound to promote the medical
interests of their patients and to avoid doing them harm.

But two important trends have begun to reshape the moral dimensions of the
relationship in profound ways.

First is the constant threat of malpractice litigation. Threat of suit promotes
defensive medicine - unnecessary documentation and tests - that costs billions.

More importantly, fear of malpractice erodes the values commitment in the
relationship between doctors and patients. Doctors now meet their patients as
threats, as potential litigants.

A more recent trend raising equally profound questions about the role of doct
ors is the growing public debate on doctor-assisted suicide.

Contemporary patients are looking to their doctors for relief from debilitating
illnesses and lengthy terminal diseases. Does putting a patient's medical
interests first mean assisting actively in suicide when it is requested?

New technologies that allow us to reshape our species also underscore the values
crisis facing health care. The link between sex and reproduction has been
broken. We can now have sex without reproduction, and can artificially reproduce
without sex.

The notions of parenting and family are undergoing new definition. They are
beset with values questions: What is the significance of a genetic descent? What
makes a mother a mother, a father a father?

A new revolution in genetics is just around the corner. Before the decade is
out, scientists will have located precise points on our genes that carry the
specific bits of information that shape our inherited traits. This knowledge
will yield new therapeutic power. But it will also set the stage for
interventions that reshape human genetic information in unprecedented ways.

At the same time that ethical questions are becoming more insistent, our public
resources for dealing with these questions are diminishing. Traditional
institutions for exploring values issues - churches, schools and political
institutions - have become impoverished or compromised.

Our two strongest institutions for dealing with values - the courts and the
media - systemically skew consideration of values issues in favor of the
individual rather than the community.

Americans are left with the challenge of performing two enormous tasks at once.
We must make difficult choices about our fundamental values in health care and
we must reinvigorate or create institutional vehicles to help us examine the
ethical questions at stake.

Succeeding in these tasks will require that we use all of the resources at our
command. Universities, hospitals and professional and community organizations
come first to mind, but there are other forums.

One powerful new vehicle is the state humanities councils that were set up to
give citizens greater access to the cultural assets of this country. The
councils, in turn, have created multiple innovative forums to promote discussion
of values questions among out-of-school adults.

Americans need broader dialogue on health-care issues. At the outset of the next
century, we will have created the world's most powerful, expensive and
innovative health-care machine - but we may have lost sight of the human values
it was designed to serve.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                              445 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BULLIED BY UPMC

BYLINE: THOMAS J. PAPPALARDO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 106 words


Would someone please rationally explain to me why it is OK for a hospital system
-- UPMC -- to have its own exclusionary health insurance company and not OK for
a health insurance company -- Highmark -- to have its own inclusionary hospital
system? This double standard that UPMC is trying to sell to Western Pennsylvania
is laughable.

Yet, the more important question is why exactly are we buying it hook, line and
sinker? Or, how can anyone serve on the UPMC board of directors and still
maintain his or her intellectual and ethical integrity?

Shame on us all for letting UPMC bully us and "buy" our silence.

THOMAS J. PAPPALARDO

McCandless

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              446 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                       Donna M. Carlson Insurance agency

                               455 NW Fremont St.
                                Camas,  WA 98607
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (360) 833-2202
FAX: (360) 833-2302
URL: www.donnamcarlson.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Donna Carlson lives near Vancouver, WA and maintains her life and health
insurance licenses in both Oregon and Washington. She is a licensed health
insurance consultant in Oregon and is appointed to represent the major health
insurance companies in Oregon and Washington.  Donna has received the
distinguished Registered Health Underwriter (RHU) designation. The RHU program
gives insurance professionals the broad knowledge and skills necessary to
provide comprehensive health financing and disability income services to their
clients. This designation has rigorous educational, experience, and ethical
requirements.  Donna receives ongoing updates and briefings on legislative
issues on federal, Oregon and Washington issues, and regularly attends
continuing education courses. She maintains industry designations to further the
companyÃ¢â^â¢s commitment to be the best it can be.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              447 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

IPA Seeks Health Insurance Sales Representatives, Announces Leadership
Opportunities at Atlanta, Georgia Centers of Excellence

LENGTH: 321  words


Jan. 20 -- US-based IPA Family, LLC issued the following news release:

Due to record-breaking growth, IPA Family, LLC (IPA), an American Independence
Corp. company and member of The IHC Group, is pleased to announce new business
opportunities in Atlanta, Georgia. The company seeks sales representatives to
help fulfill increasing demand. Additionally, leadership roles are now available
at IPA's Atlanta, Georgia Center of Excellence Offices. IPA's offices in Georgia
expand across the great state, and markets include the cities of Alpharetta,
Cumming, Marietta, Athens, Roswell, Macon, Savannah and surrounding areas.

Qualified candidates will possess the following attributes: an ability to make
decisions and solve problems, active listening skills, critical thinking skills,
sales experience, strong time-management skills and, most importantly, a
proclivity to operate with the highest ethical standards. Selected candidates
will be provided with a complete and comprehensive program that promotes their
personal and professional success. This includes, but is not limited to, the
following:

* Compensation programs

* Residual income and monthly bonus

* Lifetime vesting schedules

* Wealth accumulation plan

* Free qualified sales leads and lead-management systems

* Ongoing training and business education using state-of-the art technologies

* Many other performance-based programs and incentives

To be considered for one of the select positions and participate in a
professional and confidential interview process, you may submit direct inquiries
with resume to IPA Family, LLC through their website contact page. Due to a
culture of continuous growth and market expansions, IPA is currently accepting
inquiries for existing and new markets. For more information about IPA Family
and the companies it represents, visit (http://www.ipafamily.com) or call
800-772-8667 and indicate you saw our press release.

Source: IPA Family, LLC

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              448 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                            June 28, 2017 Wednesday

Janashakthi team in US for MDRT confab

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, June 28 -- Janashakthi Insurance PLC announced that Million Dollar
Round Table (MDRT) qualifiers from its Life Insurance Sales team had attended
the prestigious MDRT Conference that was held in Florida, USA, recently.

Founded in 1927, the Million Dollar Round Table, The Premier Association of
Financial Professionals, is a global, independent association of more than
43,000 of the world's leading Life Insurance and Financial Services
professionals from more than 500 companies in 67 countries.

Surpassing the record numbers it had set in 2016, Janashakthi Insurance recorded
its largest ever contingent of MDRT qualifiers in 2017. The MDRT membership is
recognized internationally as the standard of excellence in the Life Insurance
and Financial Services business.

MDRT members, therefore, are perceived as individuals who demonstrate
exceptional professional knowledge, strict ethical conduct and outstanding
client service. The 18 MDRT qualifiers from Janashakthi were selected based on
their performance in 2016 as well as their overall adherence to the
association's strict ethical standards.

Significantly, Ruwan Kumara from Janashakthi's Hatton branch was awarded the
MDRT Life Membership for having qualified for MDRT membership 13 years in a row
whilst Sadun Jayawardhane from the Havelock branch was accorded the MDRT's Court
of the Table membership.

"At Janashakthi, we strongly believe that our team of world-class insurance
professionals are the primary drivers of our steady growth over the years.

We have been conscious of this right from our inception and, hence, have always
focused on nurturing their talent through continued investments in their
learning and development," said Stuart Chapman, CEO/Director, Janashakthi
Insurance PLC.

"Therefore, we are delighted to see even more members of our team qualify for
the coveted Million Dollar Round Table membership this year. This is yet another
testament of their commitment towards helping us realize our vision of lighting
the lamp of Insurance in every home and work place."

The team from Janashakthi had the opportunity to be inspired by some of the
world's best minds in the insurance sector at the MDRT Conference.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Daily News Sri
Lanka. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              449 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Mother denied daughter's organs

BYLINE: Chris Green

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 206 words


A woman in need of a kidney transplant has been told by medical authorities that
she does not have the right to her dead daughter's organs, which have already
been passed on to strangers.

Rachel Leake's 21-year-old daughter, Laura, died of an asthma attack last month
and because of the sudden nature of her death she could not begin the process of
becoming a "living donor", whereby her kidneys could have been transplanted to
her mother while she was still alive. Instead, her organs were distributed to
strangers at the top of NHS waiting lists.

Laura's dying request was that her mother should have her organs, but Adrian
McNeil, the chief executive of the Human Tissue Authority, said that all
requests of this nature were being turned down while an ethical review of the
procedure is being carried out.

Mrs Leake, 39, said: "I am angry, really angry. I am not finding comfort in the
fact that she helped three people ... She would have been so upset that she was
not able to help her mum."

Mr McNeil said: "The ethical issue is important as there is a waiting list ...
If we go down the path of saying you can direct who gets your kidney after
death, what if that person is not as urgent a need as someone on the top of the
waiting list?"

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              450 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                           All-round Country Edition

We must look far beyond genome

BYLINE: Tony McMichael

SECTION: FEATURES; Opinion / Op Ed; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 885  words


Understanding DNA is only one way of improving health, writes Tony McMichael


RECENT British research, identifying a large number of gene variants associated
with major diseases, has excited much media and public interest.

The study, drawing hundreds of researchers, analysed the DNA of 17,000 people.
By scanning each person's genome, a range of new gene variants has been
identified for depression, hypertension, coronary heart disease, rheumatoid
arthritis, Crohn's disease, and types one and two diabetes. These impressive
findings, published in journal Nature this month, have heightened the
anticipation of a new era of personalised medicine, with early detection,
treatment and management of disease based on an individual's genetic profile.

Personally attuned avoidance and treatment of clinical disease would, of course,
be a boon to the individuals concerned. But, allured by this prospect of a brave
new chapter in medical science, we may well overlook the difficulties and
misunderstandings that attend this research.

An immediate, familiar, question relates to the awkward ethical issues that flow
from these discoveries. What are the implications of genetic screening for
choosing one's reproductive partner, for screening fetuses, for access to health
and life insurance, and for employability?

Beyond those important ethical issues we may mislead ourselves on two other
important counts.

First, the population does not divide simply into genetic susceptibles and
non-susceptibles. Each of us is susceptible, at some level, to each type of
disease. As was often pointed out by Richard Doll, the doyen of British
epidemiology during the latter half of last century, all men will develop cancer
of the prostate if they live long enough. Meanwhile, those who are genetically
predisposed to malignant cellular change in their prostate gland will tend to
develop the cancer at a younger age than other men.

In accordance with a basic principle of population biology, there is natural
genetic variation between individuals at all genetic loci in the human genome.
Hence the well-known graded variation in height, hair colour, hand-eye
co-ordination, personality, and so on.

This genetic variation within populations reflects random mutations in the
genetic code, the DNA. Those chance mutations, each devoid of any pre-planned
goal, are the substrate upon which natural selection operates. They enable the
Darwinian evolution process, via intelligence-free non-design, to preferentially
retain those genetic variants best able to survive and reproduce in the
prevailing environment.

Fortunately for the continuation of life on earth, there is ongoing
replenishment of random genetic variation in all species. Life can never
''know'' when a previously inconsequential or marginally detrimental genetic
variant might become advantageous.

Genetic diversity is each species' collective insurance against changed
environmental circumstances. So, it is not surprising that we each carry a
different combination of genetic variants. Each of us, therefore, has a unique
profile of relatively greater or lesser susceptibility to a diversity of disease
processes.

The second misunderstanding is more serious. We are at risk of forgetting that
the factors that cause an individual within a population to get, say, heart
disease may differ from the factors that are driving the rate of heart disease
up or down in the population at large.

Consider smoking and lung cancer. If everybody in the population smoked,
personal genetic susceptibility would be a key discriminator, a significant
determinant, of which individual smokers develop lung cancer. Meanwhile the high
rate of smoking would be the cause of the high lung cancer rate.

Human societies, with evolving cultures, experience continuing change in their
exposure to factors affecting disease occurrence. In today's interconnected
world, where human economic activities are becoming more intensive and
environmentally intrusive, that spectrum of factors -- encompassing climatic
conditions, water supplies, food yields, the emergence and spread of infectious
diseases, and the stability and cohesion of communities -- is itself widening.
The causes of population disease patterns are becoming more globalised.

So, yes, we should celebrate our extraordinary scientific advances in the field
of molecular biology and in elucidating the secrets of the human genome. But
gene-based personalised medicine will only make sense if it complements a
greater attention by our society to understanding, and rectifying, the larger
social and environmental causes of recent rises in rates of obesity, juvenile
diabetes, multiple sclerosis, depression and other diseases. Genes don't change
over just several decades; environments and ways of living do.

Meanwhile, for many other low-income human societies, still far removed from the
first-world option of individualised genetic screening and personally calibrated
medication, the only thing that really counts is improving the fundamentals.
Those relate to poverty, nutrition, education, drinking water, disease control,
and the environment. That is what the UN's Millennium Development Goals are
about.

Tony McMichael is a senior fellow at the National Centre for Epidemiology and
Population Health at the Australian National University.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             March 9, 2013 Saturday

SingTel among 'world's most ethical' firms

BYLINE: Rachel Scully

SECTION: MONEY

LENGTH: 330 words


SINGTEL has again been named on a list of the world's most ethical businesses.

The telecommunications giant clinched the World's Most Ethical (WME) Companies
award given by US-based think-tank Ethisphere Institute.

SingTel, the only Singapore company on the list, was one of three telcos among
the 145 firms honoured during a gala dinner on the second night of the two-day
Global Ethics Summit in New York City which began on Tuesday.

SingTel also made the list the past two years.

Ethisphere recognises companies with the highest ratings in corporate ethics and
compliance worldwide, based on its own criteria.

Companies were scored on the following factors considered by Ethisphere: the
existence of an "ethics and compliance" programme, reputation, leadership and
innovation, governance, corporate citizenship and responsibility and culture of
ethics.

After that, each company is given an "ethics- quotient" (EQ) score to determine
the highest percentiles in each industry.

Ethisphere will then independently verify the information provided by the
companies in the survey form before announcing the winners.

In a statement issued on Thursday, SingTel said the title is a significant
achievement and recognition of the listed company's commitment to ethical
leadership, compliance practices and corporate social responsibility.

"SingTel is committed to upholding the highest level of corporate governance,
ethical corporate behaviour and playing an active role in supporting the
community and the environment."

The list is dominated by US firms but close to one-third of the WME winners have
their headquarters outside the US across 36 industries from aerospace to
windpower.

Since the award was established in 2007, 23 companies have made the list for all
six years - including Aflac, American Express, General Electric, Milliken & Co,
Patagonia, Rabobank and Starbucks.

The list of this year's winners can be found at

http://m1.ethisphere.com/wme2013/index.html

rjscully@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              452 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 1993 Boston University School of Law.
                       American Journal of Law & Medicine

                                      1993

                            19 Am. J. L. and Med. 37

LENGTH: 19479 words

An Ethical Perspective on Health Care Insurance Reform

NAME: Troyen A. Brennan *

BIO:



   * Professor of Law and Public Health, Harvard School of Public Health.
Katherine Swartz, Rashi Fein, Marcia Angell, Linda and Zeke Emanuel, and Fran
Miller all provided helpful comments on an earlier draft, as did participants at
a seminar of the Division of Medical Ethics of Harvard Medical School.

 TEXT:
 [*37]

   Much recent analysis of health care insurance reform emphasizes economic and
policy issues. In contrast, this Article examines health policy issues from the
viewpoint of medical ethics. The critical ethical "problem" in health care today
is that ability to pay determines the availability and quality of care. This
Article discusses three types of proposed solutions: health care insurance
reform, health care financing reform, and health care cost reform. It sketches
an ethical framework for evaluating health policy and presents seven specific
propositions that an ethical analysis of health care reform proposals raises.
This Article concludes that remedying the unethical treatment of certain classes
of patients requires both health care financing reform and health care cost
reform; health care insurance reform will not suffice.


   I. INTRODUCTION

    Perhaps more than any other professional activity, medical care is imbued
with ethical principles. Yet today, with major structural health care reform
appearing imminent, ethics is rarely used as an analytical device. Although
there is no shortage of voices raised about the limitations of our present
methods for financing health care, most are fluent in economics or policy.
Ethics, and more generally moral philosophy, rarely inform these debates, which
tend to emphasize utilitarian cost-benefit analysis or public-choice-driven
policy rationales.  n1 Even legal analysis has been pushed to the side, with
discussion of reform measures usually avoiding difficult problems of state
insurance regulation and the preemptive effect of federal law.  n2

    An unfortunate result of the emphasis on economics and politics is that much
of the discussion of insurance reform today seems disconnected from  [*38]  the
larger problems of the health care delivery system. Initiatives that appear far
too narrow to have any real impact have been nonetheless scrutinized in great
detail. Specific economic costs and policy options are presented with little
perspective on what we really want from the health care system. Meanwhile, the
dual problems of health care costs and restricted access threaten to spin the
existing health care system out of control. The initial reaction of the Clinton
Administration has been admirably comprehensive in scope. The plan is only now
taking shape as this Article goes to press, but it clearly endorses managed
competition.  n3 What will eventually emerge from Congress is impossible to
predict.

    No matter what the final result, I would submit that it is important to
consider reform in light of the value of health care in its social and moral
terms. Health care is, at its roots, a helping enterprise; it is as much a
matter of social commitment as it is an industry. In addition, the practice of
medicine has always been attended by elaborate ethical principles. These ethical
roots ought to inform the institutions to which they give rise and their
attendant financing arrangements. At this point, a real civic debate  n4 about
the structure of health care provision, and its relationship to the ethical
basis of medical care, might help move us towards more meaningful health care
reform.

    In this Article, I sketch an ethics of health policy and present several
issues it raises, as well as the emphasis those issues should be given in the
reform of our existing system. Part II discusses why we should reform our health
care system and presents three types of proposed solutions: health care
insurance reform, health care financing reform, and health care cost reform.
Part III sketches a "bottom-up" ethics of health policy that is an extension of
traditional medical ethics and accommodates important principles of liberalism.
It presents three issues that guide an ethics of health policy: patient
commitment, institutional commitment, and provider community orientation.
Finally, Part IV addresses seven specific propositions that an ethical analysis
of health care reform will raise.

   II. HEALTH CARE REFORM: WHY AND WHAT?

    Why does health care reform today focus so much interest on health insurance
?  n5 The most convenient response is simply that the existing system is too
costly. Personal health care expenditures continue to increase annually at about
9.5 percent, with the total personal health care expenditure estimated to reach
about $ 957 billion in 1995.  n6 National health expenditures are pro [*39]
jected to be $ 1072.7 billion in that same year.  n7 It would seem that our
economy cannot tolerate both inflation and commitment of resources at this
level.

    This broad rendition of the "problem" with health insurance is open to
scrutiny on several fronts. There is no absolute reason why either individuals
or government cannot spend more money on health care, except insofar as this
limits resources for other primary social goods. It is not at all clear how many
dollars expended for health care are taken from other socially valuable
programs. In addition, insurance reform itself is no panacea for health care
cost inflation. Although the Health Insurance Experiment revealed that
first-dollar insurance does lead to greater demand for health services,  n8
insurance mechanisms can explain only a fraction of the increase in health care
expenditure.  n9 The remainder is attributable to such factors as the
incorporation of new technology and changes in real income.  n10 Therefore, the
problem must be stated more carefully if health insurance reform is to serve as
an adequate solution to the health care cost crisis.

    A more sophisticated rationale for health care reform is that health
insurance has become too costly for the average middle class person. As real
wages have leveled or fallen off in the 1980s, health insurance premiums have
continued to increase, in constant dollars from $ 656 per full-time employee in
1970 to $ 1,722 in 1989.  n11 Employers have paid for much of this increase
through health benefits plans. While in 1970, health benefits were equivalent to
almost twenty percent of pre-tax corporate profits, by 1990, they were more than
fifty percent.  n12 With such intense cost pressure, employers have no choice
but to limit benefits and induce employee cost sharing.  n13 Health care cost
inflation, therefore, leads to limited benefits and higher employee
out-of-pocket payments, which in time lead to consumer pressure for reform.

    Certain dynamics of the insurance market, particularly the fragmentation of
risk pools, accelerate this process. Insurers and benefits managers at large
companies now tend to leave large geographic risk pools and base insurance rates
on their employees alone, especially when it seems that the employees  [*40]
are healthier than the rest of the population.  n14 A healthy risk pool can
qualify for favorable premiums.  n15 This leaves behind the less well, who must
then pay higher premiums and accept narrower benefits.

    Of course, the process of fragmenting toward optimal risk pools reaches a
limit when the pool is too small to be actuarially stable. Indeed, small work
forces are often charged more for similar benefits than are large workplaces
because of higher administrative costs, fear that employees in small workplaces
may be sicker, and concerns about inadequate risk pooling.  n16 The costs of
health care coverage for small workplaces are often so high that employers
simply forego this tax-subsidized benefit.  n17 Another option for employers is
to purchase policies with reduced benefits levels. Caps on employee co-payments
had become increasingly popular, but this trend now appears to have moderated.
n18 Solutions to the small group market "problem" represented a major boomlet in
the general excitement about insurance reform,  n19 in no small part because
this represents a problem that insurance reform can directly address. They are
now fading as attention focuses on managed competition and "health alliances"
that will enforce community rating and organize small markets.  n20

    Insurance market dynamics and sources of inflationary pressures are not,
however, the central concerns of most reform advocates. Underlying concerns
about out-of-pocket costs and fragmentation of markets is the fear that, as the
availability of insurance dwindles,  n21 those without it will not receive
medical treatment, or will receive inadequate therapy. The critical ethical
"problem" in health care today is that ability to pay will determine
availability and quality of care.

    The metaphor of the patient unable to gain access to care is relatively
[*41]  new and increasingly pressing. The fear that the uninsured will receive,
at best, deficient health care was rarely stated explicitly until the mid-1980s,
perhaps because health care providers traditionally reassured society that payer
status would not affect health.  n22 Before insurance became widely available in
the late 1940s, hospitals acted as true charities, caring for all patients.
Although some patients may have been in "private" rooms, and other less wealthy
patients on public wards, many of the same physicians provided care to both
groups, and the diagnostic and procedural protocols were similar.  n23 Medical
ethics insisted that patient care be isolated from economic considerations, and
most providers followed this imperative.  n24 According to this traditional
view, wealthier patients, or those with adequate insurance, cross-subsidized the
care provided to those without insurance.  n25

    As commercial insurance became more widespread, and especially as Medicare
n26 and Medicaid  n27 were introduced, hospitals could reasonably expect to be
reimbursed for services. Many hospitals did away with distinct public and
private services.  n28 In the meantime, the common law of torts began to
identify a hospital's duty to care for all patients presented to an emergency
room.  n29 In addition, once admitted to the hospital, the common law required
that patients receive care according to a reasonable medical standard.  n30 By
the 1980s, tort doctrine, supplemented by the provisions of the Hill-Burton Act,
n31 assured hospital access for acutely ill individuals.  n32 The traditional
ethical tenet mandating patient care regardless of ability to pay, and the but
[*42]  tress of common law, could be interpreted as preventing any move to an
overt double standard for those unable to pay for hospital care.  n33 With the
advent of community health centers providing primary care to the rural and urban
poor, one could even argue that preventive services and health promotion were
becoming available to those without insurance.  n34

    Only recently has the assumption that patients receive similar care,
independent of insurance status, been overturned by empirical research. It has
become clear that those without insurance are at risk for a variety of poor
outcomes as compared to insured patients.  n35 Once the Medicare program  [*43]
began to use prospective payment through diagnostically related groups to pay
for hospital care,  n36 and other large third-party payers began to insist on
discounts in hospital rates,  n37 cross-subsidies evaporated. This trend in
turn, has both increased pressure on hospitals to reduce care inputs for
uninsured individuals and affected their care outcomes.  n38 Thus, as the
uninsured and underinsured population grows, health care becomes more
inequitable, and many fear that they will be left off the "medical lifeboat."
n39

    The foregoing characterization of the problem makes possible a structural
discussion of proposed solutions, which, in turn, can be the target of ethical
analysis. First, there are reforms that should at least halt recent increases in
insurance costs and create subsidies for those who cannot afford even low-cost
policies. These are included in what I term true health care insurance reform
because they focus on underwriting issues and the insurers' roles in the
provision of health care. As one might expect, the reform proposals that seem
most realistic are those that emphasize limited subsidies as an adjunct to the
current insurance market. These typically call for use of reinsurance or similar
techniques to broaden coverage in small insurance markets;  n40 wider use of
employer-mandated coverage;  n41 and more creative high-risk pooling mechanisms.
n42

    The second category of health care reform is health care financing reform
(as opposed to narrower insurance reform). Health care financing reform
proposals radically restructure existing insurer/insured relations.  n43 These
pro [*44]  posals tend to form four classes. The first and most radical is to
move to a single governmental payer, often referred to as the Canadian model.
n44 The second is to continue to rely on multiple payers, but ensure access
through increased employer mandates and broader government subsidies.  n45 A
third is to use newly created quasi-governmental agencies (health insurance
purchasing cooperatives, or health alliances) more effectively to manage care
and promote competition and access.  n46 The fourth is to leave choice about
benefits primarily in the hands of the individual, who can take advantage of new
tax credits or vouchers to purchase care he or she deems necessary.  n47 Models
one and perhaps two represent the view that health care should be considered a
form of social insurance,  n48 while the latter models retain some of the
characteristics of the casualty model  n49 of insurance.  n50

    Any comprehensive plan must stake out a position on certain foundational
issues, such as taxation methods, relationship of finance to quality
improvement, mechanisms for control of technology, and health manpower.  n51 For
purposes of an ethical analysis, there are three important foundational issues
in health care financing reform. First, any reform plan must either pro [*45]
mote competition among diverse insurers or endorse a single payer. Competitive
strategies take advantage of market incentives to increase sufficiency and
presumably quality.  n52 A single payer, on the other hand, has attributes of
administrative efficiency and perhaps greater equity.  n53

    The second foundational issue is a decision about the nature of benefits.
One could consider setting a floor of benefits available to all citizens and a
ceiling limited only by a consumer's willingness to purchase additional
benefits. On the other hand, one might limit benefits at a single floor/ceiling
available to all citizens. This system is a standard benefits package. Although
consumer-set ceilings are generally associated with competitive strategies, it
is not necessarily true that only single-payer plans endorse standard benefits
packages. For example, the proposal of the American College of Physicians
envisions a single set of benefits, but allows for competition between insurers
based on the efficiency of producing that single benefits package.  n54 The
Physicians for a National Health Program would eschew competition in favor of a
single payer and endorse a single set of benefits.  n55 Some economists propose
"responsible national health insurance" advocating a minimum floor of benefits
through vouchers, and reliance on competition between various insurers, with
consumers setting their own ceiling of benefits.  n56

    The third foundational issue for health care financing reform is cost
control. Both insurance reform and the more general health care financing reform
aim at slowing the increase in health care costs for the consumer, as well as
lowering the number of uninsured, but do not necessarily affect the costs of
health care interventions to society as a whole. To decrease overall health care
costs, not just costs to the consumer, one must either limit the number of
interventions employed per health problem by changing both hospital and
physician behavior, or eliminate some of the costs associated with each
intervention.  n57 Accomplishing either of these cost-control options usually
goes well beyond the financial relationship among payer, provider, and insurer.
Nevertheless, most health care financing proposals are likely to be linked to
some constellation of these options. I term measures designed to decrease
overall costs of care health care cost reform. Although these measures are
slightly peripheral to the financial relationship, they are nonetheless impor
[*46]  tant components of reform. Health care cost reform usually entails either
market incentives or command and control regulation.

    To accomplish the first type of health care cost reform, limiting the number
of interventions employed, a few mechanisms have been proposed. Global budgets
for hospitals, for example, would force professionals to choose the most
efficient array of interventions.  n58 National and regional prospective payment
systems were meant to begin that process.  n59 Clearly, global budget proposals
represent a more harmonious part of a health financing reform proposal that
emphasizes centralized command and control regulation rather than
market-oriented reform measures.  n60 Practice guidelines, enforced in part by
malpractice litigation, might accomplish the same goal and can fit into both
market and central regulatory approaches.  n61 Medical care management through
health maintenance organizations can control costs directly by controlling
provider decisionmaking.  n62 Many argue that competition among health plans
furthers this goal by creating incentives for more stringent management
techniques.  n63

    Rationing health care through explicit lists of compensable services
represents yet another way to control costs by decreasing interventions.  n64
This is essentially an administratively set floor and ceiling for beneficiaries
of a particular plan. The state of Oregon provoked a great deal of discussion by
seeking (and eventually gaining) a Medicaid waiver to institute an explicit
system of rationing.  n65 The concept of rationing as a form of cost control is
here to stay.

    Achieving the second goal, eliminating costs associated with interventions,
may be more difficult. Theoretically, managed care, guideline adher [*47]  ence,
global budgets, and competition can decrease the number of inappropriate
ancillary tests performed using major procedures and, as a result, decrease unit
costs.  n66 Minimizing the administrative overhead associated with health care
provision also reduces individual intervention costs.  n67 One of the major
arguments in support of single-payer health care plans concerns the
administrative costs associated with the multitude of private plans now
available.  n68

    In summary, conventional insurance reform, health care financing reform and
health care cost reform each refer to different constellations of proposed
solutions. Importantly for purposes of this Article, each constellation raises
different ethical concerns. But before moving to an analysis of these concerns,
we must better specify what is meant by the ethical analysis of health policy.

   III. ETHICS OF HEALTH POLICY

    Moral/ethical analyses of health policy have been available for years.  n69
They have usually been independent of and, in some ways, in conflict with
traditional medical ethics. For example, most discussions of health care
institutions have been rooted in theories of liberal justice, with health care's
role as a Rawlsian primary social good the central target of scrutiny.  n70 This
analysis often becomes intertwined with the concept of a right to health care, a
phenomenon apparent in the consideration that the President's Commission gave to
the just distribution of health care.  n71 Insofar as the U.S. Constitution
[*48]  does not seem to entail a right to health care,  n72 much of the legal
analysis of health care administration has abandoned the idea of universal
entitlement through the concept of rights.  n73

    With the Reagan Administration's advocacy of "competitive strategies" in
medical care, right to health care as a theme was further eclipsed by a
fascination with markets. After a decade of competition, however, the same
problems with access to and cost of medical care remain (and perhaps have
worsened). Therefore, justice of health care and morality of health institutions
are once again becoming central to reform analyses (though notions of
competition continue to flourish).  n74 Curiously, the consideration of justice
in health care has never made serious inroads into traditional notions of
medical ethics. Medical ethics continues to emphasize the dutiful clinical
relationship of doctor to patient, most recently regarding treatment at the end
of life.  n75

    An alternative to this streaming of traditional medical ethics and concerns
about social justice is to suggest that institutional allocative decisions and
clinical encounters reflect some of the values that control the clinical
setting.  n76 This proposal values some moral consistency between the realm of
clinical interventions and access to the institutions that provide them. To this
end, an ethics of health policy should share some common themes with traditional
medical ethics. Put another way, the ethical propositions that govern the just
distribution of goods in the liberal state should be modified so as to
accommodate traditional medical ethics. Analogous compromises might be expected
of clinical ethics.

    This proposed accommodation is no small task. Liberalism espouses a much
different set of moral/political ideals from medical ethics. Indeed, traditional
medical ethics insisted that physicians do everything possible for the
individual patient, independent of political or economic constraints.  n77
[*49]  Obviously, these fiduciary impulses are inappropriate in an ethics of
health care policy that has as its central paradigm the limits on medical care
resources. I have argued elsewhere that the philosophy of medical ethics based
on doing anything that could potentially benefit the patient (without regard to
marginal returns) has contributed to the inordinate and inappropriate cost of
health care.  n78

    The rather radical differences between paternalistic, duty-oriented medical
ethics and individual, rights-based liberalism seem to allow two very different
approaches to thinking about a hybrid ethics of clinical medicine and health
policy. One would be to start with the tenets of liberalism and analyze health
as merely one social good among many others.  n79 Clinical ethics would  [*50]
be reformulated to fit a definition of just health care.  n80 Although this has
a great deal of merit, I am interested in a second approach, which involves
analysis of policy issues from the viewpoint of medical ethics.

    This second approach moves from medical ethics to health policy ethics by
extracting certain virtues from the traditional beneficence model of
doctor-patient relationships and using it as a foundation for an ethics of
health care reform.  n81 It entails a shift in focus from the relationship
between doctors and patients to the relationship between the class of patients
and the health care system. To accomplish this task, I have recommended an
analytical experiment akin to Rawls's original position,  n82 in which
physicians must think about how patients should ideally be cared for, while
remaining ignorant about the socioeconomic status of the patients for whom the
physician would care.  n83 Blind to their own and their patients' identities,
physicians would design a just system of health care that comports with central
values of medical ethics. This approach leads to an ethics of health policy that
would resonate with medical ethics, but not necessarily retain the current
institutional structure of medical care.  n84  [*51]

    I would argue that three critical principles will emerge after considering
health care institutions that emphasize the fundamental values of medical
ethics. The first is based on the altruism of the doctor-patient relationship. A
physician or other health care provider is committed to a patient as a person of
immeasurable value. The provider-patient relationship is unlike others in the
liberal state because it invokes notions of trust, selflessness, and virtue.
This aspect of patient care, and the ethos it creates, must be retained. The
difference in an ethics of health care reform is that the altruism of the
physician's concern for the individual patient must be extended to the class of
potential patients. The good of the isolated doctor-patient relationship must be
evaluated in light of the good of all patients.

    The move from single patient to class of patients is controversial. In some
ways, it could dilute the provider's loyalty to the patient.  n85 Integrating
concern for all patients into the therapy of an individual patient will require
clear ground rules, some of which are now taking shape.  n86 Nonetheless, given
the challenge raised by limited health care resources, persistent inflation, and
growing evidence that health outcomes relate to ability to pay, the class of
patients cannot be ignored, even in therapeutic encounters. Altruism must be
retained, but the focus must be broadened.

    The second aspect of traditional medical ethics that must be built into an
ethics of health policy reform is that the institutions of medical care reflect
and support the morality of the doctor-patient relationship. In the past, this
support meant an isolation of the therapeutic interaction from the realities of
economics and politics.  n87 Institutions were organized so that the central
relationship between physician and sick person was free to be ethical. This is
no longer possible. Indeed, such isolation may have served to mask some strong
profit-seeking motives.

    The peculiar set of institutions through which we now deliver health care
restricts some people's access to the therapeutic process (particularly the
uninsured).  n88 That some receive poor quality care or no care at all is highly
offensive to the altruism of healing. Thus, it becomes clear that moral analysis
must be a factor in the design of health care delivery systems. The structure of
medical care must reflect that which has been considered morally  [*52]  good in
the relationship between providers and patients. Put another way, the sphere of
medical care must reflect the commitment, altruism, and selflessness of medical
ethics.  n89

    The institutional focus, however, does place its own governor on altruism.
Institutions constantly face restrictions on resources. Where limits are a fact
of life, physician selflessness cannot directly translate into an institutional
response. Thus, while the institutional reflection of ethics must complement and
deepen the nature of patient commitment, an ethics of health care policy must
confront resource limits.

    A third aspect of an ethics of health care policy also derives directly from
traditional ethics. It is what La Puma and I have called a provider community
orientation, a recognition by providers that their actions affect one another.
n90 Traditional medical ethics did acknowledge that providers are members of a
healing community, but did not request anything more of physicians than
non-interference with other members.  n91 Under an ethical health policy,
providers must be actively cognizant of the nature of their activities (as part
of a group process) and the collective impact of their individual actions.  n92
In other words, physicians must be willing to act as a group when economic
considerations hamper the care of particular patients.

    The contractarian aspect of a provider community orientation carries with it
the burdensome responsibility of ensuring that ethics does not act as a cover
for medical care market control. The major justification for the use of
competition in medical care is that it yields economic efficiency (minimum
average cost) in the production of medical care.  n93 Medical care has not
always been produced in a competitive environment. Many feel that the organizing
principles of health care institutions, at least through 1975, were dominated by
physicians' economic interests,  n94 with ethics in many ways sanctioning these
arrangements.  n95 Since Goldfarb v. Virginia State Bar, in which the United
States Supreme Court held that antitrust laws are applicable to professionals,
n96 physicians and hospitals have been the targets of increasing scru [*53]
tiny.  n97 Courts have deemed a variety of institutional arrangements
anti-competitive, from physician-organized preferred provider arrangements
(PPAs)  n98 to credentialing decisions.  n99

    The need to guard against anti-competitive impulses must be recognized as an
explicit part of an ethical health policy grounded in medical morality. Any
ethical principle will be carefully scrutinized for economic advantages it may
create for providers, especially physicians. This is particularly true of any
initiatives that are based on the provider community orientation aspect of
health policy ethics.

    The three principles that guide an ethics of health policy (patient
commitment, institutional commitment, and provider community orientation)
represent an alternative to the "top-down" pathway to health care reform that
moves from a theory of justice, to calculated just amounts of the primary good
(medical care), and then to clinical ethics.  n100 The ethics of health policy
presented here is an extension of traditional medical ethics. It assumes that
the moral posture of the doctor-patient relationship is valuable, and that it
rests on principles that should provide a foundation for a more general ethics
of health policy. In addition, a "bottom-up" ethics recognizes and accommodates
critical principles of liberalism.

    Critics could raise two concerns with the ethics of health policy set forth
here. First, they could advocate a "top-down" method, arguing that the morality
of the clinical relationship cannot be exported to the institutional level. They
might posit that, generally, as a primary good, health care should be organized
according to tenets of justice.  n101

    This otherwise reasonable objection misses the point of using traditional
medical ethics as a starting point for the analysis. My presumption is that it
is possible to modify clinical ethics to fit liberal notions of justice.
Integrating medical ethics with liberalism produces an ethics of health policy
that is consistent with traditional medical ethics, but fulfills criteria of
justice. This consistency is critical for preserving the value of the
doctor-patient relationship and the unique identity of health care institutions,
while fitting both into society's liberal framework.  n102

    A second concern about the ethics of health policy is likely to be men [*54]
tioned by advocates of market-based approaches who would prefer to draw health
care directly into the liberal state rather than use ethical impulses to reform
the present system.  n103 They may fear that ethical principles will cover up
physician/institutional economic interests rather than serve patient interests.
n104 According to this theory, the market and the informed consumer of medical
care represent important potential counter-weights to physician hegemony.  n105

    The arguments from those suspicious of appeals to professional ethics have a
great deal of merit. There can be little doubt that physicians regret the loss
of their autonomy. The medical literature is full of articles that lament the
end of medical professionalism  n106 as regulation of and litigation about
medical care increase. Many physicians would prefer to return to a time when
there were few controls on the doctor-patient relationship and little opposition
to providers' economic monopoly.  n107 Although the economic advantages of
hospitals and providers remain enormous, there is a sense that their heyday has
passed.  n108 Market advocates recognize this shift in provider perceptions and
attribute it to innovations in competition.  n109 They favor efforts to
encourage provider marginalization.  n110 A corollary to this theory is that
using professional ethics to reform medical care is unnecessary and perhaps
counterproductive.  n111

    The response to this set of concerns is complicated. Informed consumers and
patients' rights can easily be accommodated by an ethics of health policy with
roots in clinical ethics. The role of the market in medical care is a more
troublesome point of contention, however. Although the pure procedural justice
of the market is admirable, the consequences of an unregulated market,
especially the unequal access to health care for those unable to pay, undermine
ethical health care. The inequalities generated by the unfettered market
outweigh the market's other attributes. Therefore, adequate regulation (or
management) of the market, informed by a commitment to the class of all
patients, is a central feature of ethical health policy. The key to "adequate"
regulation is curbing inequality while allowing the market to brake the  [*55]
professional impulse to gain economic advantage through medical care.  n112

   IV. THE ETHICAL PERSPECTIVE ON INSURANCE REFORM

    As compared to an economic or political analysis, an ethical analysis that
incorporates altruistic concern for the class of all patients, insists that
institutions of medical care reflect the same kind of caring that individual
providers do for their patients, and recognizes that providers must work
concertedly for ethical goals provides a different perspective on health care
cost and financing reform. To illustrate, the choice of a particular mechanism
for relieving small group insurance problems is not a matter of concern for
ethics. There is no clear ethical reason to choose one mechanism over another.
This choice should be informed by efficiency issues, or perhaps will be a matter
of political accommodation.

    An ethical framework does offer an analytical perspective from which to
evaluate reform proposals - it is not a matter of vague generalities. Rather, an
ethical analysis generates the following seven specific propositions.  n113

   A. Proposition One: Reform Should Be Comprehensive and Multidimensional

    An ethical analysis of reform emphasizes both the class of all patients and
the class of all providers. It does not provide for significantly different
relationships between subclasses of sick people or physicians. This concept is
reinforced by the imperative that health care institutions themselves be  [*56]
ethically responsible in a manner similar to providers.  n114 A consistent moral
environment should be reflected in relations between providers and all patients
as well as in the manner in which institutions operate.

    In this light, the reality of substandard care for some groups, particularly
the uninsured, commands the attention of the ethical health care reformer. Poor
quality care for those unable to pay reveals an institutional response to this
class of patients that ethics cannot tolerate. Any reform that leaves some
individuals without insurance and perpetuates inequalities in access to medical
care, which, in turn, lead to identifiable morbidity and mortality, is
deficient. Therefore, medical morality pushes us from consideration of insurance
reform to health care financing reform. Halting steps to address issues like the
"small market problem" may be politically expedient, but it does not reflect the
concern for patients that we expect from providers and institutions. Thus, an
ethics of health policy is hostile to piecemeal reform, and open to more
comprehensive reform such as is now advocated by the Clinton Administration.

    An ethics of health policy, however, must also have an institutional
perspective and must address the costs associated with medical care. Moral
analysis today cannot afford to be ignorant of economics, particularly medical
care inflation, as was so much a part of traditional medical ethics. As a
result, comprehensive cost containment must be a part of ethical health policy
reform.

    To use the framework developed previously, an ethical approach requires that
the frame of analysis not be insurance reform, but health financing reform
accompanied by health care cost reform. Insurance reform is a narrow solution to
the related problem of inequality in medical care. The ethical frame of
reference must include the larger questions of financing generally, including
cost control. Therefore, an ethical analysis calls for comprehensive,
multidimensional reform. This is the fundamental proposition on which the
remainder of an ethics of health policy rests.

   B. Proposition Two: Insurance Coverage Should Be Broad

    The treatment of patients as a single class is critical to an ethics of
health policy. Patients, as individuals who are ill, must enjoy a special and
equal status. They should not be treated significantly different depending on
their ability to pay for therapy. The impulse of ethics is to move toward a goal
of necessary and appropriate health care for all, but not because of a patient's
right to the care (although such a right may exist). Rather, the coherent ethics
of health policy that arises from the relationship between provider and patients
and informs the set of institutional arrangements in which the relationship
occurs demands such an impulse.  n115  [*57]

    As a result, ethics encourages a movement in health care financing from the
casualty insurance model to a social insurance model.  n116 Although pooling
people of similar risk and "cream-skimming"  n117 of insurance risks may be
appropriate from a utilitarian viewpoint, the ethical analysis suggested here
finds it obnoxious that some may get inexpensive insurance while others go
without. In this regard, ethics asserts a positive right on behalf of the class
of the unhealthy that trumps the negative right of the healthy to take advantage
of relatively narrow risk pooling. This does not mean that ethics necessarily
demands universal coverage through a single payer (the Canadian model). A
voucher system with mandatory purchase of a certain level of care, for example,
may meet the ethical standard.  n118 The point is that, absent a mechanism for
ensuring access to a very thorough floor of benefits, conventional insurance
arrangements appear unethical.

    An ethical analysis does not reside only at a level of high abstraction. It
must inform at least the three foundational issues in health care financing
reform noted above.  n119 These generic issues, however, do not exhaust the
ethical analysis. Although tracing an ethical position on every debate in health
care policy is not possible here, providing a few examples is necessary to
sketch fully the integrity of ethical analysis.

    One example that relates to access and conventional insurance risk pooling
is the operation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).
n120 ERISA was originally intended to protect employees from abuses by those who
invest and manage benefit (primarily pension) programs.  n121 Over the last
decade, federal courts have widened the preemptive status of ERISA,  n122 and
now appear to have shielded any self-insured plan from state insurance
regulation.  n123

    Both labor and business might support this extension of ERISA because  [*58]
it promotes self-insuring by allowing businesses to purchase relatively
inexpensive insurance for their relatively healthy work forces. From an ethical
viewpoint, however, it is suspect. The ERISA preemption promotes risk pool
skimming and leaves the unhealthy minority unable to purchase insurance. It also
frustrates state insurance regulators' efforts to ensure that reasonable
benefits are available to insured employees.  n124 ERISA preemption claims are
now being used to block state health care rate regulations designed to induce
cross-subsidies.  n125 Because as much as sixty-five percent of the population
is insured through an ERISA-qualified plan, the problem is immediate and the
impact enormous.  n126 It is not surprising that states interested in pursuing
health insurance reform are seeking ERISA waivers.  n127

    ERISA highlights the role of ethical analysis in health care financing
reform. As now interpreted, the statute protects the rights of beneficiaries.
n128 Its operation, however, tends to protect beneficiaries' health care rights
at the expense of others. States find themselves unable to undertake
comprehensive reform because of the ERISA roadblock. Since ERISA preemption
appears to affect large numbers of insured people, its operation cannot be
ignored by the broad sweep of an ethical analysis.  n129 Indeed, we might
conclude that, although ERISA is valuable, its repercussions are unethical
insofar as it promotes unequal access to health care.

   C. Proposition Three: The Floor/Ceiling Difference is Critical

    The major proposals for increasing access to health care through health care
financing reform vary significantly in their treatment of coverage for various
services. Pauly and his colleagues envision a mandatory basic coverage that
would "include basic acute services and a specific set of preventive services
that are known to be cost-effective and beneficial."  n130 This is a true floor
[*59]  and is certainly an ethical improvement on the existing situation.
Patients would still be free to buy more coverage in the marketplace with no
apparent ceiling on purchasable services.  n131 Others, such as the Physicians
for a National Health Program (PNHP), propose that "everyone would be fully
insured for all medically necessary services including prescription drugs and
long-term care."  n132 A universal payer seems to fund all care and no
additional marketplace is contemplated.  n133 The American College of Physicians
(ACP) advocates a plurality of insurers, but is explicit that "insurance plans
would not compete on the basis of benefits offered, because all plans would
cover all effective and appropriate care."  n134 The latter two proposals do not
appear to leave any room between the floor and the ceiling, except perhaps for
treatment that they consider totally unnecessary, like some forms of cosmetic
surgery. Instead, one set of benefits is offered to all.

    The requirement of a unitary set of benefits is rather radical. Elsewhere in
our liberal society, we distribute so-called primary social goods with an
emphasis on the floor.  n135 For instance, local authorities provide a public
education system. Those without shelter can usually qualify for
government-subsidized housing, or at least a spot in homeless shelters.  n136
Other citizens, however, are free to send their children to private schools, or
to live in the homes of their choice. Therefore, markets in educational
institutions and housing exist even though government provides a floor of these
primary goods.

    The PNHP and ACP plans depart from this model by insisting that only one
package of benefits should be available to patients and should be distributed on
the basis of medical need alone.  n137 The justification for this radical
departure from the way we treat distribution of other primary social goods in
the liberal state is not clearly stated in the proposals.  n138 One might
presume that the rationale is linked to concern for the class of all patients
and that the ability to pay should not be a factor in distribution of care.
n139 It does seem possible, however, to respect the class of all patients by
providing a floor of coverage without insisting that only one product be
available.  n140  [*60]

    From an ethical perspective, the floor/ceiling differential is critical.
Respect for the class of patients demands, at the very least, an adequate floor
of services for all patients. For those who advocate a floor, there is the
significant empirical problem of defining the floor, a process that has begun.
n141 On the other hand, for those who would obliterate the floor/ceiling
distinction, the problem of controlling the costs of health care becomes more
salient because the market cannot be used to brake demand. It is
incomprehensible that a public system could buy everyone all the services he or
she might need or desire. We cannot afford to offer bone marrow transplantation
to everyone with otherwise incurable breast cancer, and likely cannot even
afford to do so for only the subset who would want such treatment. More
importantly, we cannot afford high-resolution CT scans of the coronary vessels
for every person curious about the shape of his or her vessels. Thus, plans that
offer a single set of benefits are especially in need of elaborate cost-control
programs.  n142

    At times, those who advocate a single floor/ceiling seem to rely only on
[*61]  the provision of "appropriate" care as a means for controlling costs (a
reliance that other reformers also share).  n143 Therefore, heart
transplantation would be available, but only for certain otherwise healthy
patients. For instance, a man with lung cancer and endstage heart disease would
not qualify for transplantation, whereas a similarly aged patient without lung
cancer would. In the former case, transplantation would be considered medically
inappropriate because that patient's chances of long-term survival would be so
slim and his or her quality of life so limited by the lung cancer.

    From an ethical viewpoint, however, the term "medically appropriate" remains
vague. It appears to stand for a medical decision about the duration and quality
of life enjoyed by the patient. This kind of substitute decision, in turn,
raises significant questions regarding respect for patient autonomy and
physician paternalism.  n144 More importantly, appropriateness may reintroduce
inequality in medical care by discriminating against those who already suffer
from significant illness.  n145 Since the single floor/ceiling plans are so
[*62]  broad, their advocates must be prepared to address openly and
consistently issues of care that arise in the plans' implementation.

    Of course, a single benefit plan could go beyond restrictions based on
appropriateness and simply restrict access to certain kinds of care. Since it is
a single benefit plan, no one would have access to the uncovered procedures. All
of us would share the same restrictions on care. A restricted set of benefits
with the same ceiling for all would be very true to the class of patients,
treating each patient equally. However, it might involve the abandonment of
certain expensive therapies that are relatively widely available today (such as
transplantation of livers, hearts, and bone marrows) based on the proposition
that medicine as a community should pursue new technologies only insofar as they
offer the possibility of being available to all. Technology assessment,
therefore, becomes an integral part of an ethical health policy.

    This is, in a sense, rationing, a rather vague but emotionally charged term.
A ration is defined as a share, determined by supply, with connotations of
equality.  n146 In medical care, however, rationing usually has connotations of
inequality because, presumably, most patients in the past have had an
unrestricted supply of medical goods and a minority was forced into rationing.
n147 Rationing under the single benefit package plan does, however, provide an
equal share of procedures available for all, and if costs are to be controlled
in single floor/ceiling proposals, some rationing of this sort seems inevitable.
n148

    Rationing under a public floor/consumer-determined ceiling is quite a
different matter since there is no assumption of equality in the shares. The
wealthy can purchase while the poor are left with the floor. This is the kind of
rationing proposed in Oregon today in that only Medicaid recipients are  [*63]
faced with a ceiling on their benefits.  n149 Others are able to purchase
insurance that goes beyond the Medicaid ceiling. This sort of rationing has been
widely criticized on ethical grounds.  n150 Given the ethics of health policy
outlined above, rationing so understood is intolerable insofar as it creates
significant differences in the quality of care enjoyed by different classes of
individuals.

    Indeed, a floor with a consumer choice of ceilings appears consistent with
the ethics of health policy only if the inequalities between floor and ceiling
are restricted by some set of wealth transfers, such as a tax on the purchase of
services above the floor that explicitly subsidizes a higher floor. Patients who
turn to the private insurance sector to obtain bone marrow transplantation for
treatment of breast cancer, a therapy that is unlikely to be integrated into the
floor, would have to pay a tax on premiums that would be designated for use in
the public health care system. This tax could be calibrated to restrict the
distance between the floor and the benefits available to the best-insured. It
would also likely be calibrated on the basis of indications and efficacy. A
patient without symptoms of heart disease who wants a high-resolution CT scan
would have to pay a much higher tax than would the patient with breast cancer
who purchases a bone marrow transplantation. Indeed, the tax could be aimed at
eventually moving us toward the single floor/ceiling approach.  n151

    The floor in this proposal would have to be significant. It would include
all acute services and prevention care now available and exclude only some of
the very expensive, high technology interventions that are currently available.
Discriminating between floor and non-floor procedures and interventions will be
at least as difficult as determining the single floor/ceiling, perhaps more so.
(The vagueness of current Clinton Administration proposals about the benefits
package indicates how poorly they grasp this critical issue.) Because the floor
will presumably be the only care available to a large number of Americans,
concerns about inequality will be much more salient. The storm over even very
small scale "floor" plans for Medicaid beneficiaries, such as in Oregon, will be
greatly amplified.

    Another issue confounds the public floor/private ceiling approach. Cost-
[*64]  control measures put in place to restrict health care inflation in the
floor will not apply to consumers who purchase outside the floor. If the floor
is to be administered centrally by a single payer, global budgets and adherence
to guidelines will be critical components, but again will fall unequally on
those with fewer economic resources. Without very serious efforts to maintain
the floor, we will likely fall into the same inegalitarian and unethical system
we have today.

    Perhaps the logistical challenges of preventing significant inequality in a
floor/consumer purchase ceiling approach explain the appeal of the radical
single floor/ceiling. Since concern about egalitarian care, in part, drives an
ethics of health policy, any approach that tends to recreate that inequality
appears suspect. Therefore, the slippery slope to inequality creates a
significant ethical presumption in favor of a single benefits package. The
single floor/ceiling has a greater appeal than the public floor/consumer-set
ceilings, unless the distance between floor and ceiling is carefully moderated.
Indeed, the inability to define a minimum of care that is acceptable to
policymakers and patients leaves me to predict that a single benefits package
will attract more and more people.

   D. Proposition Four: The Choice of Competition Versus Single Payer Is
Ethically Neutral

    As noted above, throughout the 1980s, the federal government and many health
care policy analysts recommended competition in medical care delivery as a form
of cost control and quality improvement.  n152 The critical insight of
competition advocates was that the market and any efficiency incentives it
creates had been stunted in medical care by professionalism and physician
dominance.  n153 Creating market relations with informed consumers was thought
to be important to reformulating medical care.  n154 Market incentives would
constrain physician autonomy and allow consumers and patients to choose the sort
of health care that they wanted to purchase.

    Some observers of medical care were less sanguine about the ability of the
market to correct the system. Indeed, some noted a deterioration in the health
care sector as competitive strategies appeared to create potential for new
profit-making, but added little new efficiency.  n155 Market advocates had to
defend themselves and their policies against increasing skepticism.  n156 There
is little evidence that health care costs leveled off as a result of competitive
impulses, and even less evidence that the quality of care improved as a result
of market forces.

    None of this has cooled the ardor of advocates of competition. Today, as
[*65]  we are midway through the first year of the Clinton Administration,
managed competition is the new mantra.  n157 Rather than arguing for an
unadulterated market, competition advocates have focused on management of care
through health care organizations such as health maintenance organizations,
preferred provider arrangements, and other forms of managed care.  n158 The
informed patient consumer, or his or her surrogate who selects benefits at a
business that purchases employee insurance, analyzes the available options for
health insurance, most of which involve much greater management of care than
traditional indemnity plans, and selects the most cost-effective plan.  n159 The
competition between the plans creates incentives for new and more effective
methods of management that lower costs and increase quality of care. Although
this process is clear in theory, there is very little evidence to suggest that
its promises will be fulfilled.

    The alternative to competition is monopoly. In this case, monopoly would be
a single government payer that replaces all insurance companies. Advocates of a
single payer point to its greater administrative efficiency and potential for
controlling costs through command and control regulation. For instance, it is
relatively easy to look north to Canada to see how a single payer can implement
global budgets.  n160 On the other hand, global budgets in a managed competition
framework make very little theoretical sense. The point of managed competition
is to allow health plans to compete against one another to become more
efficient. This competition should drive costs down; therefore, a global budget
program would be unnecessary.

    Although the debate over single payer versus managed competition generates a
great deal of economic and political heat, the choice is ethically neutral as
long as the benefits issue is decided as discussed in the previous section.
n161 The concerns about competition from an ethical viewpoint are twofold.
First, there is concern that physicians and other providers' self-interest would
dominate under a competitive framework and would contravene the patients' best
interests.  n162 As discussed in the next section, however, these conflicts of
interest can be handled by government regulation and an emphasis on informed
consent.  [*66]

    The other ethical concern about competition is that the market will induce
inequalities in the care available to individual patients. Market efficiency
generally operates in the aggregate; it does not guarantee efficient care for
each patient. Some patients may be unable to purchase care in the market and,
hence, be excluded from the health care system.  n163 A market in medical care
assumes that the individual patient is able to purchase care, or at least take
advantage of federal subsidies. The fear is that those with little purchasing
power would be unable to obtain adequate benefits, although managed competition
advocates rely on market vouchers for the poor, as well as the notion of a
standard benefits package.  n164

    Some remain convinced that competition among various plans will harm medical
care. In particular, Arnold Relman has argued that, because managed care by
payers interferes with physicians' decisionmaking, it corrupts physicians and
leads to poor quality of care.  n165 Relman notes that "encouraging price
competition among insurers would simply increase the pressures on third parties
to intrude into health care decisions that ought to be made professionally
within the doctor-patient relationship."  n166 He ignores, however, the clear
message of the common law that physicians are responsible for the welfare of the
patient, no matter what sort of interference from third parties occurs.  n167

    The existence of competition, and the potential for management of clinical
decisionmaking, does not in itself constitute an ethical problem. Medical
ethical concerns arise only if these management issues interfere with quality of
care and/or are applied unfairly.  n168 As long as reasonable health care is
available to all, and then is appropriately "managed," the choice of managed
competition versus single payer appears ethically neutral once conflict issues
are solved. Hence, there is little need to explore the debate between market
strategies and single payer in further detail.

   E. Proposition Five: Informed Consent is Critical to Managed Care

    Managed care is likely to be one mechanism of cost control in any system
that allows competition among payers. Managed care is defined as explicit
efforts by insurers, and the providers under contract to them, to pursue
cost-effective treatment, usually with financial incentives for the successful
provider.  n169 Advocates of managed care insist that, unless some incentives
for  [*67]  cost-saving are integrated into the fabric of health care,
inflationary pressures will persist.  n170 Thus, even single benefit plans like
ACP's recommend that insurers offer a variety of competitive managed care plans.
n171

    The point of managed care is competition. A managed care plan attempts to
offer a more attractive set of benefits at a better price than its competitor.
The "management" of care is really a matter of gaining control over clinical
decisionmaking through incentives. In managed care, the manager is the health
care organization; in managed competition, the manager is the government or
health alliance. Because the patient (or his or her employer or the government)
has already paid a premium and will incur no or minimal further costs after that
initial payment, the incentives are usually intended to reduce care inputs. The
providers must oversee the care to ensure that each diagnostic and therapeutic
intervention is appropriate and cost-effective. The stronger the economic
incentives, the better the management, and the more competitive the plan.  n172
Of course, these incentives may have negative effects insofar as they lead to
restrictions on necessary care.  n173 Little is known about how much or at what
level negative effects occur. It is clear, however, that incentives affect
behavior.  n174 One could hypothesize that the inequality of knowledge between
doctor and patient and the relative inadequacies of tort litigation as a
deterrent device in medicine  n175 create a grave potential for poor quality
care for the patient who is "over-managed." For example, if a physician receives
additional pay if he or she does fewer than the average number of screening
colonoscopies on a primary care population, and the chances of suit by a patient
whose colon cancer is inappropriately diagnosed are small, then the rate of
missed colon cancer cases will rise; this scenario would yield more substandard
care.  n176 In this sense, profit-seeking may increase a patient's risk of harm.
This potential deficiency associated with  [*68]  managed care is ethically
acceptable only if a great deal of effort is made to inform and educate patients
about the potential conflicts of interest.

    Information sharing is an ethical imperative that is not restricted to
competitive approaches. Suppose there is a health care institution, such as a
large hospital, that has set up a health maintenance organization. Suppose
further that its management is poor or its providers are not responding to
incentives. The organization is losing money and, as a result, insists on more
stringent care management, or begins to cut corners in capital and operating
expenses. It stands to reason that the quality of care in this organization will
begin to deteriorate. The same could also occur with poor management of a
hospital in a single-payer program. In either case, some information regarding
the quality of care should be shared with patients.

    The link of poor economic performance to quality of care is not theoretical.
A recent empirical study shows that the financial performance of hospitals is
closely associated with incidence of adverse events.  n177 The worse the
hospital's financial performance, the greater the number of adverse events.
n178 The same study also shows that government subsidies for hospitals that care
for the poorest patients are efficacious because these "hospitals may be
safeguarding the care of patients in greatest need."  n179 It appears that
health care reforms that induce differences in the economic performance of
health care organizations may also lead to gross inequalities in the quality of
care rendered among institutions. Although the overall quality of care for the
health care system may be improved by a particular strategy,  n180 the
inequality of care it may produce is challenging to an ethics of health policy,
in which regard for all patients is a governing principle.  n181 An ethical
health policy must monitor the quality of care that individual institutions
render and reflect a  [*69]  willingness to subsidize those in which poor
quality of care is clearly due to insufficient resources, or move to closure of
such institutions, with arrangements made for care of patients elsewhere.

    Full disclosure to patients of any quality deficiencies is critical
regardless of health care reform's central theme. If managed competition is
selected, then consumers must know about the quality of institutions so that
they can select the best institutions. If they choose a single payer that
provides a universal set of benefits, patients must be able to lobby for
increased expenditures that will allow deficient hospitals to reach the industry
standard.

    Although any approach to health care reform must fully inform patients in
order to conform to ethical principles, the managed competition option does face
a stronger challenge in this regard than does a single-payer plan. The
single-payer approach can accommodate readjustments of expenditures in light of
publicly available information about quality.  n182 Indeed, there is a good deal
of experience with similar mandates in states that set reimbursement rates.
n183 Managed competition, however, is based on profit-making and involves a wide
variety of independent economic players. Full disclosure in this context will
not be easy to accomplish.  n184

    Some have argued that contracts between patients and institutions can
accommodate most of these disclosure issues;  n185 others, however, are less
sanguine.  n186 In many ways, it seems advisable to follow the path taken over
the last twenty years in the context of physician disclosure of risks - to
insist upon full rights of informed consent.  n187 The ethics of health care
institutions can follow the lead of doctor-patient ethics by taking the common
law path to full disclosure. Reiterating the patients' right to know through
personal injury suits will provide significant incentives for institutions to
act ethically. Therefore, informed consent must be extended to disclosure of
care management incentives and quality of care evidence. No matter how it is
accomplished, disclosure will be a serious ethical mandate, one that managed
competitors will be especially hard pressed to meet.

   F. Proposition Six: The Physician's Dual Roles Must Be Segregated

    I have suggested that medical ethics can provide the basis for an ethics of
[*70]  health policy. I have also indicated that the ethical practice of
medicine entails attention to the institutions of medical care. However, the
ethics of medical care and the ethics of health care delivery should not be
entirely confluent. The principles of medical ethics have to be modified when
moved to the institutional level.

    The segregation of institutional and individual perspectives mirrors a
segregation that must occur in the physician's ethical reasoning between his or
her clinical and policymaking roles. In the clinical role, the physician retains
the traditional altruism of medical ethics, committing him- or herself to the
patient. The physician does not consider other patients and their needs when
taking care of a particular sick person. Generalized concerns about cost control
and patients' access are appropriate intrusions on the therapeutic relationship.

    On the other hand, physicians must be involved in decisionmaking about the
structure of medical care. Their input is important for thinking about
cost-effective care, rationing, and management of care. Therefore, commitment to
patients requires attention to reforms that will affect the class of patients.
This forces the provider into a somewhat schizophrenic position of considering
institutional issues and helping to reform medical care delivery, but leaving
those considerations behind when taking care of patients.

    The only way to accomplish this rationally is to separate providers'
institutional ethical analysis from their care of patients while maintaining
some consistency among the norms that guide behavior. This need for consistency
underlines the importance of linking the principles of clinical ethics to policy
ethics (whether using a "top-down" or "bottom-up" approach). While participating
in the policy process, physicians should be encouraged to use the intellectual
mechanism of the original position. They should approach organizational reform
by thinking not of their own patients, but of the class of all patients, and
considering what it would be like to care for poor or uninsured patients.

    The result of these policy discussions will be new, organizational
relationships, some of which will affect clinical practice. Insofar as they do,
they should take the form of clear prescriptions for care or rules of behavior.
For instance, a rationing rule may prohibit the use of back radiographs for
patients with lower back pain without neurological impairment for the first six
weeks of therapy. The rule will be integrated into clinical practice, but the
provider will still have the same commitment to the patient that he or she had
in the past. The prescriptions must be crisp and clinically clear, not vague. It
will be impossible for providers to maintain the ethical commitment to patients
if a rule simply states that they must care for patients in a cost-effective
manner, or that they must take into account the needs of uninsured patients when
caring for their insured patients.

    There is little doubt that physicians must be intimately involved in the
development of these rules. Their clinical expertise will be a foundation for
ethical prescriptions. Conversely, it would be foolish to think that the ethical
reasoning used at the institutional level will not affect the clinical judgment
of physicians involved in the reform process. In fact, the clinical perspective
should accommodate the ethics of health policy at least insofar as there is
[*71]  understanding of and respect for the new organizational mandates.
Physicians should not be "gaming the system" to the advantage of their own
patients.  n188 Advocacy on behalf of patients must be limited by an
understanding of the rules that come with the reorganization of medical care.
This makes it more important for providers to "buy into" reform at a
developmental level.

    Developing an ethics of health policy requires some segregation of physician
judgment and commitment. In the traditional clinical setting, the physician
retains a commitment to his or her individual patients, but gains respect for
guidelines and rules that come with reform measures and apply to all patients
equally. As a participant in the design of health care institutions, the
physician brings a clinical orientation, but represents the class of patients,
not his or her own patients.  n189

   G. Proposition Seven: Providers Should Be Prepared for Limits

    Seven years ago, Robert Evans argued that discretionary power is defended by
denying that it exists.  n190 Evans's argument was directed at those who would
maintain the status quo in insurance relationships, but is particularly
applicable to physician reimbursement. Physicians increasingly call for more
ethical responses to cost control.  n191 Rarely, however, do these articles and
speeches mention control of physicians' income. This seems paradoxical in light
of the increase in physicians' income that exceeded inflation last year.  n192
In this light, how can physicians' income escape scrutiny? If, as a result of
altruistic commitment to patients, we are to consider rationing and managed care
as mechanisms for restricting health care cost inflation, are not
physician-imposed limits on reimbursement a reasonable expectation?

    Juxtapose physicians' income  n193 with rationing. Today, rationing appears
unavoidable. Some lives that could have been saved will not be. We may no longer
spend $ 200,000 for an organ transplantation for a patient on Medicaid. At the
same time, some physicians are earning more than $ 100,000  [*72]  per year;
cardiac surgeons average $ 441,000 annually.  n194 One cannot ignore these
facts. The provider community orientation component of the ethics of health
policy reminds physicians that their behavior must be responsible with regard to
patients and institutions. When limits are applied elsewhere in medical care,
they must also cut into physicians' income. It is not ethical to protect
physicians' income while others suffer as a result of rationing or other cost
controls. It is not ethical for some physicians to see their patients
handicapped by inability to pay, while other physicians earn more than $ 500,000
per year. Medical morality may call for some self-imposed limits on income.
Voluntary fee reductions would go some distance in reducing the bite of
rationing.

    In this regard, an ethics of health policy based on provider commitment to
patients produces a much different posture on provider obligation than does a
"top-down" social justice model. For instance, Daniels explores the obligations
of providers to deliver health care and finds individuals' personal commitment
unnecessary and even unhelpful.  n195 I do not mean to suggest that an
individual provider, or even health care professionals as a whole, can guarantee
just health care distribution. Nor do I mean to suggest that society should
"depend on professionals complying with principles of justice."  n196 We cannot
expect professionals to cure our existing system. However, I believe that the
medical ethics framework creates a requirement for providers to consider their
role in the distribution of health care. We can, therefore, expect them to
analyze their own contributions to unjust distributions of health care.
Physician payment is a natural focus of such attention. The merits of such a
stance deserve more careful scrutiny.  n197

   V. CONCLUSION

    An ethical analysis of health policy is possible, perhaps necessary, as an
alternative to more technical economic or legal perspectives on reform. I have
proposed an ethical theory of health policy that attempts to capture  [*73]
some of the altruism of the traditional ethical relationship between doctor and
patient, and create a link between the morality of the therapeutic relationship
and the institutions in which care is rendered. There is no doubt, however, that
ethics of health policy is quite distinct from traditional norms of the
doctor-patient interaction. First, the class of all patients, rather than the
individual patient, must be considered as part of the moral perspective. Second,
the ethical norms of the doctor-patient relationship must be modified to fit an
institutional perspective. This requirement puts further constraints on the
ethical analysis because health care institutions exist to distribute a
relatively scarce good. The institutional aspect of health policy ethics reminds
us that the provider can no longer treat the patient without limits. An ethics
of health policy respects constraints, and this respect must be integrated into
institutional structures. Finally, health care ethics calls for, but also
cautions about, providers working as a community. Providers must realize that
their decisions affect the care of other patients by other doctors. Health
policy ethics entreats physicians and other providers to realize the moral
interconnectedness of medical care. At the same time, a moral approach to
medical care bluntly forbids physicians from working together for their own
advantage. A provider community orientation does not tolerate monopolistic
economic activity.

    Elsewhere, I have called this a communitarian view of medical ethics because
it shifts the frame of ethical analysis from the doctor-patient relationship to
the sphere of medical care.  n198 A communitarian analysis demands attention not
only to the therapeutic relationship, but also to the institutions of medical
care and their reform. For example, the provider's commitment to an individual
patient cannot ethically satisfy the provider when he or she knows that
uninsured patients are being treated differently, comparatively deficiently,
than insured patients. A community view broadens the ethical obligations of
those who care for patients and, indeed, of the institutions in which that care
is provided.

    In this Article, I have tried to specify in some detail critical
propositions for this ethics of health policy. The ethical perspective reminds
us first and foremost that insurance reform itself is insufficient. What is
needed today to cure the unethical treatment of certain classes of patients is
health care financing reform coupled with health care cost reform. To do less is
simply to perpetuate conditions that are wrong from an ethical perspective. On
the other hand, insurance coverage must be broadened. Of course, this raises
significant problems in light of medical care's seemingly insatiable demands and
the limits on resources available to fight disease.

    Consideration of floors and ceilings will be essential to the design of an
ethical health care system. At this point, the major alternatives are a single
benefit program or an adequate floor with a progressive taxation scheme on
personal expenditures above the floor. The tax acts as a governor on
inequalities in access to services and benefits. Concerns about inequality drive
one toward the single benefit plan; a floor that allows consumer purchase must
be heavily regulated if it is to fulfill an ethical health policy's criteria.
Managed care and some limited competition are acceptable only insofar as  [*74]
explicit information about management issues and the economic viability of
institutions is available to patients. Finally, providers themselves must be
prepared for the same kind of limits that they expect of their patients. This
may have personal income implications for care providers.

    These issues will be raised in other discussions of health policy, but they
will likely have a different theoretical grounding. Up to this point, ethics has
been only a small voice in health insurance reform, but it is arguably an
important counterweight to utilitarian-dominated economic analyses. The greatest
value of medical ethics has always been its concern for patients' suffering. We
now know that some patients are suffering because of the way we have organized
medical care. A simple ethical proposition is that the system must change. Now
is the time to move to specific propositions about reform.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicareProvidersReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health &
Welfare LawSocial SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesHospitals

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See, e.g., Wendy E. Parmet, The Impact of Health Insurance Reform on the
Law Governing Physician-Patient Relationship, 268 JAMA 468 (1992); Marilyn Moon
& John Holahan, Can States Take the Lead in Health Care Reform?, 268 JAMA 1588
(1992); E. Richard Brown, Health USA: A National Health Program for the United
States, 267 JAMA 552 (1992).




n2.  For a medico-legal analysis of current federal preemption doctrine and
state reform options, see Wendy E. Parmet, Regulation and Federalism:
Impediments to State Health Care Reform, 19 Am. J.L. & Med. 121 (1993).




n3.  See Erik Eckholm, On "Managed Competition': Primer on Health-Care Idea,
N.Y. Times, May 1, 1993, at 1, 8.




n4.  See Marc J. Roberts, Economics and the Allocation of Resources to Improve
Health, in The Price of Health 3, 15-16 (George J. Asich & Charles E. Begley
eds., 1986).




n5.  The ethicist's primary disciplinary grounding is in philosophy. The
philosopher brings to the table an interest in primary or foundational issues
and some expertise in careful definition of terms and framing of questions.
Therefore, before moving to analysis, it is particularly important for the
ethicist to define precisely the subject of analysis.




n6.  Sally T. Sonnefeld et al., Projections of National Health Expenditures
Through the Year 2000, Health Care Financing Rev., Fall 1991, at 1, 7, 23. The
federal Health Care Financing Administration publishes Health Care Financing
Review.




n7.  See id. at 23.




n8.  In 1974, the federal government began the Rand Health Insurance Experiment
(HIE). Willard G. Manning et al., Health Insurance and the Demand for Medical
Care: Evidence from a Randomized Experiment, 77 Am. Econ. Rev. 251, 252 (1987).
One of its chief aims was to track how demand for medical care responds to
insurance-induced price variation. See id. The experiment involved enrolling
families in various areas of the United States and assigning them to one of 14
different fee-for-service insurance plans or to a prepaid group practice. See
id. at 253. For a more recent and somewhat radical discussion of the health care
reform debate by the principal architect of the HIE, see Joseph P. Newhouse, An
Iconoclastic View of Health Cost Containment, Health Aff., Supp. 1993, at 152.

    First-dollar insurance coverage totally covers medical care without
requiring the insured to pay any part of the cost. See Barry R. Furrow et al.,
Health Law 669 (2d ed. 1991).




n9.  Manning, supra note 8, at 269-70.




n10.  Id.




n11.  Robert J. Blendon et al., The Health Insurance Industry in the Year 2001:
One Scenario, Health Aff., Winter 1991, at 170, 172.




n12.  Id. at 173.




n13.  For a summary of employer responses during the 1980s, see Katharine R.
Levit et al., National Health Care Spending Trends: 1988, Health Aff., Summer
1990, at 171, 177-80.




n14.  See Katherine Swartz, Why Requiring Employers to Provide Health Insurance
Is a Bad Idea, 15 J. Health Pol., Pol'y & L. 779, 786-87 (1990).




n15.  See W. David Helms et al., Mending the Flaws in the Small-Group Market,
Health Aff., Summer 1992, at 7, 11. This process of fragmentation is accelerated
by the benefits of self-insuring through the Employee Retirement and Income
Security Act of 1974. See Parmet, supra note 2, at 134, 136.




n16.  See Richard Kronick, Empowering the Demand Side: From Regulation to
Purchasing, 29 Inquiry 213, 218 (1992).




n17.  See Catherine G. McLaughlin & Wendy K. Zellers, The Shortcomings of
Voluntarism in the Small-Group Market, Health Aff., Summer 1992, at 28, 33. I
leave aside taxation issues in this analysis while acknowledging that caps on
tax-free contributions to health benefit plans by employers are a major part of
the current health care policy debate. See Sharon McIlrath, Battle Looms over
Benefit Tax Caps: Would They Target Employees or Employers?, Am. Med. News, Jan.
11, 1993, at 1.




n18.  See Troyen A. Brennan, Health Insurance, in 1 The American Law Institute,
Reporters' Study: Enterprise Responsibility for Personal Injury: The
Institutional Framework 129, 142 (1991) (discussing caps on out-of-pocket
payments). But employers who self-insure are attempting to reduce benefits for
employees. See infra notes 121-27.




n19.  See, e.g., Kenneth E. Thorpe, Expanding Employment-Based Health Insurance:
Is Small Group Reform the Answer, 29 Inquiry 128, 128-36 (1992).




n20. " Health alliances" is a term that President Clinton's advisers have used
to refer to the large, state-organized groups that would purchase health
insurance under a managed competition plan. See Eckholm, supra note 3, at 8.




n21.  Approximately 35 to 40 million people in the United States are uninsured.
See Paul Cotton, Clinton Tinkers with Health System Status Quo; Critics Seek to
Pick Apart Managed Competition, 269 JAMA 1229, 1229 (1993).




n22.  See Marcia Angell, Cost Containment and the Physician, 254 JAMA 1203, 1207
(1985) ("We should be prepared to argue for spending whatever is necessary for
effective medical care."); Duncan Neuhauser & William B. Stason, Cost Effective
Clinical Decision Making, in The Physician and Cost Control 133, 133 (Edward J.
Carels et al. eds., 1980) ("Traditional clinical decision making does not
explicitly assume resource scarcity. The goal of the physician is to do
everything that can be done for each patient following the slogan that "nothing
is too good for my patient.' ").




n23.  Charles Rosenberg notes that, in the early twentieth century, the relative
minority of private patients had better accommodations, but he is unable to
comment on the quality of medical care. See Charles E. Rosenberg, The Care of
Strangers: The Rise of America's Hospital System 244-46, 258-60 (1987). There is
indeed little evidence on outcomes of care before 1970.




n24.  See Troyen A. Brennan, Just Doctoring: Medical Ethics in the Liberal State
31-37 (1991).




n25.  See, e.g., Amy Goldstein, D.C. Hospitals Spending Millions to Treat Crime
Victims, Wash. Post, Oct. 24, 1991, at D1 (discussing study that found that
every Washington, D.C. hospital raised its fees for patients with health
insurance to subsidize the treatment of uninsured crime victims).




n26.  See Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Pub. L. No. 89-97, 79 Stat. 290
(1965) (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C.A. 1395-1395ccc (West 1992 & Supp. 1993)
and scattered sections of 26 U.S.C.A. and 45 U.S.C.A.).




n27.  See Social Security Amendments of 1965, Pub. L. No. 89-97, 121-22, 79
Stat. 343 (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C.A. 1396-1396u (West 1992)).




n28.  See Marilyn Milloy, Decision's Effect is Negligible in Missouri, Newsday,
July 30, 1989, at 7 (noting that the distinction between public and private
hospitals is becoming increasingly blurred).




n29.  See, e.g., Thompson v. Sun City Community Hosp., Inc., 688 P.2d 605, 610
(Ariz. 1984).




n30.  See, e.g., Darling v. Charlestown Community Memorial Hosp., 211 N.E.2d
253, 260-61 (Ill. 1965).




n31.  Congress passed the Hill-Burton Act after World War II to fund hospital
construction. See Hospital Survey and Construction Act, ch. 958, 60 Stat. 1040
(1946) (codified as amended at scattered sections of 42 U.S.C.A. and various
sections of 26 U.S.C.A., 33 U.S.C.A., 46 U.S.C.A., 48 U.S.C.A. and 49 U.S.C.A.).
In return for this funding, participating hospitals are subject to community
service and free-care requirements. See 42 U.S.C.A. 291 (West 1991 & Supp.
1993).




n32.  See Troyen A. Brennan, Ensuring Adequate Health Care for the Sick: The
Challenge of the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome as an Occupational Disease,
1988 Duke L.J. 29, 39-40.




n33.  Some commentators advocated the adoption of graduated standards of medical
care. See, e.g., John A. Siliciano, Wealth, Equity and the Unitary Medical
Malpractice Standard, 77 Va. L. Rev. 439, 442-45 (1991) (contending that tort
law's efforts to promote an equitable distribution of health care benefits
despite wealth disparity is misguided); Troyen A. Brennan, Improving the Quality
of Medical Care: A Critical Evaluation of the Major Proposals, 10 Yale L. &
Pol'y Rev. 431, 447-48 (1992) (suggesting a health care market where individuals
could purchase different standards of care).




n34.  The lack of high quality ambulatory care in impoverished communities
served as the impetus for the neighborhood health center movement. The U.S.
Office of Economic Opportunity issued the first grant for developing such a
health center to Drs. H. Jack Geiger and Count Gibson of the Tufts University
Medical School in 1965. Alice Sardell, The U.S. Experiment in Social Medicine:
The Community Health Center Program, 1965-1986, at 51-52 (1988). The grant was
to fund two health projects, one in Columbia Point, a Boston housing project,
and the other in a rural southern region. Id. at 52. These centers aspired to
provide comprehensive, coordinated health care and preventive services that
considered the economic, political, and cultural needs of the community. See id.
at 52-56; Jo I. Boufford & Pat A. Shonubi, Community Oriented Primary Care:
Training for Urban Practices 45-58, 65-73 (1986). Neighborhood health centers
were meant to provide primary care services for the family, with less emphasis
on specialized and technologically oriented care. See Sardell, supra, at 53-55.

    As the links between poverty, poor access to medical care and higher rates
of morbidity and mortality were recognized, public monies to health centers
increased. See Howard Waitzkin, Community-Based Health Care: Contradictions and
Challenges, 98 Annals Internal Med. 235, 236-37 (1983). These centers were
expected to provide accessible, inexpensive, and culturally appropriate care and
outreach services. The centers are often located in federally designated health
manpower shortage areas and serve a predominantly minority population. See
generally Dale Young, A Promise Kept: Boston's Neighborhood Health Centers
(1982). Nevertheless, this reliance on public funding and other subsidies has
placed many health centers in financial jeopardy in recent years. See generally
Charles Brecher & Maury Forman, Financial Viability of Community Health Centers,
5 J. Health Pol., Pol'y & L. 742 (1981). Community health centers also face
rising malpractice premium costs that may force them to cut back on critically
needed services, such as care for pregnant women. See Robert Pear, Community
Health Centers Cut Back as Malpractice Insurance Costs Soar, N.Y. Times, Aug.
21, 1991, at A18.




n35.  See Robert J. Blendon et al., Access to Medical Care for Black and White
Americans: A Matter of Continuing Concern, 261 JAMA 278 (1989); Clare Bombardier
et al., Socioeconomic Factors Affecting the Utilization of Surgical Operations,
297 New Eng. J. Med. 699 (1977); Paula Braveman et al., Adverse Outcomes and
Lack of Health Insurance Among Newborns in an Eight County Area of California,
1982 to 1986, 321 New Eng. J. Med. 508 (1989); Jack Hadley et al., Comparison of
Uninsured and Privately Insured Hospital Patients: Condition on Admission,
Resource Use, and Outcome, 265 JAMA 374 (1991); Nicole Lurie et al., Preventive
Care: Do We Practice What We Preach?, 77 Am. J. Pub. Health 801 (1987); Nicole
Lurie et al., Termination From Medi-Cal - Does It Affect Health?, 311 New Eng.
J. Med. 480 (1984); Martin F. Shapiro et al., Effects of Cost Sharing on Seeking
Care for Serious and Minor Symptoms: Results of a Randomized Controlled Trial,
104 Annals Internal Med. 246 (1986); Mark B. Wenneker & Arnold M. Epstein,
Racial Inequalities in the Use of Procedures for Patients with Ischemic Heart
Disease in Massachusetts, 261 JAMA 253 (1989); Mark B. Wenneker et al., The
Association of Payer with Utilization of Cardiac Procedures in Massachusetts,
264 JAMA 1255 (1990); Paul H. Wise et al., Racial and Socioeconomic Disparities
in Childhood Mortality in Boston, 313 New Eng. J. Med. 360 (1985); Steffie
Woolhandler & David U. Himmelstein, Reverse Targeting of Preventive Care Due to
Lack of Health Insurance, 259 JAMA 2872 (1988); see also Helen R. Burstin et
al., Socioeconomic Status and Risk for Substandard Medical Care, 268 JAMA 2383,
2387 (1992).




n36.  See generally John K. Iglehart, Medicare Begins Prospective Payment of
Hospitals, 308 New Eng. J. Med. 1428 (1987) (requiring Medicare to use
diagnosis-related groups (DRGs) allows the "government to realistically
establish Medicare's hospital spending plan in advance").




n37.  See Paul B. Ginsburg & Kenneth E. Thorpe, Can All-Payer Rate Setting and
the Competitive Strategy Coexist?, Health Aff., Summer 1992, at 73, 81.




n38.  See Burstin et al., supra note 35, at 2387 ("Lack of insurance ... is the
major individual socioeconomic risk factor for substandard care.").




n39.  See Howard H. Hiatt, The Medical Lifeboat: Will There Be Room for You in
the Health Care System? (1989).




n40.  See Bryan Dowd & Roger Feldman, Insurer Competition and Protection from
Risk Redefinition in the Individual and Small Group Health Insurance Market, 29
Inquiry 148, 151-56 (1992); McLaughlin & Zellers, supra note 17, at 29-31; Helms
et al., supra note 15, at 8, 14-16.




n41.  See Kenneth E. Thorpe et al., Reducing the Number of Uninsured by
Subsidizing Employment-Based Health Insurance, 267 JAMA 945 (1992).




n42.  See generally Dianne M. Wolman, High-Risk Pools, in Improving Access to
Health Care: What Can the States Do? 123 (John H. Goddeeris & Andrew J. Hogan
eds., 1992). Several states, including Connecticut, Florida, Indiana, and
Washington, have created high-risk pools to increase the availability of private
health insurance to people who are medically needy. See id. at 123-29.




n43.  An enormous amount has been written about insurance reform in the last
five years. The single best reference on this topic is the Journal of the
American Medical Association's May 1991 theme issue wherein the editors compiled
an admirable range of reform proposals. See Symposium, Caring for the Uninsured
and Underinsured, 265 JAMA 2491 (1991). A comprehensive summary of existing
proposals is also found in Theodore R. Marmor & Michael S. Barr, Making Sense of
the National Health Insurance Reform Debate, 10 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev. 228 (1992).




n44.  See Kevin Grumbach et al., Liberal Benefits, Conservative Spending: The
Physicians for a National Health Program Proposal, 265 JAMA 2549 (1991). For a
discussion of Canada's system, see R.G. Evans, The Canadian Health-Care
Financing and Delivery System: Its Experience and Lessons for Other Nations, 10
Yale L. & Pol'y Rev. 362 (1992).




n45.  See, e.g., H. Denman Scott & Howard B. Shapiro, Universal Insurance for
American Health Care: A Proposal of the American College of Physicians, 117
Annals Internal Med. 511 (1992).




n46.  For a theoretical discussion, see Alain C. Enthoven & Richard Kronick,
Universal Health Insurance Through Incentives Reform, 265 JAMA 2532 (1991). For
a discussion of a more complete proposal, the Garamendi plan, see Sabin Russell,
Garamendi Plan for Universal Health Care: Business, Employee Taxes Would Pay for
State System, S.F. Chron., Feb. 13, 1992, at A1. California Insurance
Commissioner John Garamendi's proposal would present each California resident
with a choice of private health insurance plans financed by taxes on employers
and employees. See id. Employers would not provide health insurance and state
residents would be able to select among health insurance plans from a regional
agency operated by consumers and employers, whether they are employed or not.
See id. The national health care reform proposal that the Clinton Administration
is still developing resembles the Garamendi plan in several respects. For
example, the Clinton proposal seems to be planning to merge the workers'
compensation system and car and business liability insurance into a single
system; this was a component of the Garamendi plan. See Edwin Chen & Thomas S.
Mulligan, Clinton Plans to Meld Workers' Comp, Auto Insurance into Health Care
System, L.A. Times, May 8, 1993, at A6.




n47.  See, e.g., Louis W. Sullivan, The Bush Administration's Health Care Plan,
327 New Eng. J. Med. 801 (1992). For a proposal that is a variation on this
theme, see Mark V. Pauly et al., A Plan for "Responsible National Health
Insurance," Health Aff., Spring 1991, at 5, 11-12.




n48.  See Victor R. Fuchs, National Health Insurance Revisited, Health Aff.,
Winter 1991, at 7, 10-11.




n49.  See id.




n50.  See id. at 10-14. Certainly, pure social insurance entails only the first
model; however, the proposal of the American College of Physicians, which would
be an example of model two, intends broad-based taxation and universal coverage.
This proposal somewhat resembles the German system of health care financing. See
John K. Iglehart, Germany's Health Care System, 324 New Eng. J. Med. 503, 503
(1991) (noting that all German citizens enjoy access to a comprehensive set of
medical benefits regardless of ability to pay as a consequence of
government-mandated financing requiring contributions from all employers and
employees into insurance organizations called "sickness funds.").




n51.  For a thorough discussion of the framework of reform, see Marmor & Barr,
supra note 43.




n52.  See Robin Toner, Hillary Clinton's Potent Brain Trust on Health Reform,
N.Y. Times, Feb. 28, 1993, 3, at 1 (describing how a managed competition health
care system would work).




n53.  See Fuchs, supra note 48, at 12; Robin F. Badgley et al., Equity and
Health Care, in Canadian Health Care and the State 193, 194-214 (C. David Naylor
ed., 1993).




n54.  See Gilbert M. Gaul, Physicians Offer Plan to Control Costs, Phila.
Inquirer, Sept. 15, 1992, at A2.




n55.  See David U. Himmelstein et al., A National Health Program for the United
States, 320 New Eng. J. Med. 102, 103, 106-07 (1989); Steffie Woolhandler &
David U. Himmelstein, A National Health Program: Northern Light at the End of
the Tunnel, 262 JAMA 2136 (1989).




n56.  See Pauly et al., supra note 47. Some of the proposals seem to envision a
unitary, national plan. Other proposals can accommodate state-to-state variation
within a single analytical framework. See Stephen M. Shortell, A Model for State
Health Care Reform, Health Aff., Spring 1992, at 108, 123-24 (1992). Indeed,
much of today's health reform action is at the state level, where a variety of
models are being implemented or discussed. See, e.g., Moon & Holahan, supra note
1.




n57.  Fuchs, supra note 48, at 11-13; see also Donald W. Moran & Patricia R.
Wolfe, Can Managed Care Control Costs?, Health Aff., Winter 1991, at 120,
125-27.




n58.  Global budgets are merely a matter of a monopsonistic payer fixing a
price, in this regard based on a calendar year. The federal government already
employs similar mechanisms by setting prices for DRGs under Medicare Part A, and
fee schedules under Medicare Part B. See generally George J. Annas et al.,
American Health Law 188-89 (1990) (detailing medical benefits and co-payments
under Medicare Part A and Part B).




n59.  See Mark A. Hall, Institutional Control of Physician Behavior: Legal
Barriers to Health Care Cost Containment, 137 U. Pa. L. Rev. 431, 435-38 (1988);
Ross P. Lanzafame, Comment, Provider Liability Under Public Law 98-21: The
Medicare Prospective Payment System in Light of Wickline v. State, 34 Buff. L.
Rev. 1011, 1016 (1985).




n60.  Indeed, the Clinton Administration's endorsement of both managed
competition and global budgets seems paradoxical. It remains to be seen how
competing insurers can administer global budgets. See Paul Starr & Walter
Zelman, Bridges to Compromise: Competition Under a Budget, Health Aff., Supp.
1993, at 7. On the other hand, a single payer can administer such budgets
relatively smoothly. See Evans, supra note 44, at 368-72.




n61.  See Troyen A. Brennan, Practice Guidelines and Malpractice Litigation:
Collision or Cohesion?, 16 J. Health Pol., Pol'y & L. 67 (1991).




n62.  See Elizabeth W. Hoy et al., Change and Growth in Managed Care, Health
Aff., Winter 1991, at 18, 25-29.




n63.  See, e.g., Alain C. Enthoven & Richard Kronick, A Consumer Choice Health
Plan for the 1990's: Universal Health Insurance in a System Designed to Promote
Quality and Economy, 320 New Eng. J. Med. 94, 95-96 (1989).




n64.  Symposium, The Law and Policy of Health Care Rationing: Models and
Accountability, 140 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1505 (1992).




n65.  On March 19, 1993, the Clinton Administration approved the Oregon plan.
Robert Pear, U.S. Backs Oregon's Health Plan for Covering All Poor People, N.Y.
Times, Mar. 20, 1993, at 8; see infra note 145. Rationing in Oregon is merely
the specification of a benefits program for the Medicaid population.




n66.  I make no effort in this Article to evaluate the efficacy of these
approaches. That is why I have suggested that the effort to integrate outcomes
data into development of guidelines to change practice patterns will not prove
as efficacious as many now believe. See Troyen A. Brennan, Reform of Quality of
Care: A Critique of Existing Proposals, 10 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev. 431, 435-39
(1992). Blustein and Marmor have raised similar concerns about a variety of
quasi-regulatory strategies in medical care. See Jan Blustein & Theodore R.
Marmor, Cutting Waste by Making Rules: Promises, Pitfalls, and Realistic
Prospects, 140 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1543 (1992).




n67.  See Steffie Woolhandler & David U. Himmelstein, The Deteriorating
Administrative Efficiency of the U.S. Health Care System, 324 New Eng. J. Med.
1253, 1256-57 (1991).




n68.  See Kenneth E. Thorpe, Inside the Black Box of Administrative Costs,
Health Aff., Summer 1992, at 41; see also Patricia M. Danzon, Hidden Overhead
Costs: Is Canada's System Really Less Expensive?, Health Aff., Spring 1992, at
21; Morris L. Barer & Robert G. Evans, Interpreting Canada: Models, Mind-Sets,
and Myths, Health Aff., Spring 1992, at 44, 58. Studies have recently calculated
that up to 24% ($ 194 billion in 1992 dollars) of total U.S. health spending
covers administration. Thorpe, supra, at 42.




n69.  See, e.g., 1 President's Comm'n for the Study of Ethical Problems in
Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research, Securing Access to Health Care:
A Report on the Ethical Implications of Differences in the Availability of
Health Services 11-47 (1983) (describing an ethical framework for reasoning
about access to health care); Allen E. Buchanan, The Right to a Decent Minimum
Health Care, 13 Phil. & Pub. Aff. 55, 59-78 (1984); Charles Fried, Equality and
Rights in Medical Care, Hastings Center Rep., Feb. 1976, at 29.




n70.  Norman Daniels has been the chief proponent of these theoretical
discussions. See Norman Daniels, Just Health Care 36-58 (1985).




n71.  See Ronald Bayer, Ethics, Politics, and Access to Health Care: A Critical
Analysis of the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in
Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research, 6 Cardozo L. Rev. 303 (1984)
(discussing phases of the Commission's work and the Commission's different
approaches to achieving access to health care, based partly on members'
political inclinations).




n72.  See James F. Blumstein, Thinking About Government's Role in Medical Care,
32 St. Louis U. L.J. 853, 856-57 (1988).




n73.  See, e.g., id. at 858-59.




n74.  Advocates of market-based methods of health care financing reform would
likely argue, with some justification, that costs could have decreased and
access increased had we been willing to remove more of the barriers to true
competition in the 1980s. The efficiency-inducing aspects of competition are no
doubt the main reason that the Clinton Administration has endorsed managed
competition.

    While retaining competition, however, the President's team recognizes the
need for a just distribution of health care services. Many predict that an
explicit ethical review of the eventual proposal will be conducted by a group of
leading ethicists.




n75.  See Linda Emanuel & Ezekiel J. Emanuel, The Medical Directive: A New
Comprehensive Advance Care Document, 261 JAMA 3288 (1989); Linda Emanuel et al.,
Advance Directives for Medical Care: A Case for Greater Use, 324 New Eng. J.
Med. 889 (1991); John La Puma et al., Advance Directives on Admission: Clinical
Implications and Analysis of the Patient Self-Determination Act of 1990, 266
JAMA 402 (1991); Bernard Lo et al., Patient Attitudes to Discussing
Life-Sustaining Treatment, 146 Archives Internal Med. 1613, 1613-14 (1986); Tom
Tomlinson & Howard Brody, Ethics and Communication in Do-Not-Resuscitate Orders,
318 New Eng. J. Med. 43 (1988); Nancy R. Zweibel & Christine K. Cassel,
Treatment Choices at the End of Life: A Comparison of Decisions by Older
Patients and Their Physician-Selected Proxies, 29 Gerontologist 615 (1989).




n76.  See Brennan, supra note 24, at 58-71.




n77.  For a crisp discussion of these issues, see Charles E. Begley, Physicians
and Cost Control, in The Price of Health, supra note 4, at 227-44; see also
George J. Agich, Rationing and Professional Autonomy, 18 Law, Med. & Health Care
77 (1990). Nancy Jecker and Alfred O. Berg have characterized this conflict as
one between justice and beneficence. See Nancy S. Jecker & Alfred O. Berg,
Allocating Medical Resources in Rural America: Alternative Perceptions of
Justice, 34 Soc. Sci. & Med. 467, 468 (1992).




n78.  See Brennan, supra note 24, at 58-71.




n79.  The relationship of liberal justice to medical care and, hence, medical
ethics has been the subject of many books and articles. See Paul T. Menzel,
Strong Medicine: The Ethical Rationing of Health Care 116-28 (1990); Larry R.
Churchill, Rationing Health Care in America: Perceptions and Principles of
Justice 43-69 (1987). Two arguments are particularly useful to illustrate the
difference between the bottom-up notion defined here, and a top-down notion of
the relationship between liberalism and medical ethics. Norman Daniels's book,
Just Health Care, is a paradigmatic, top-down, liberal justice philosophy. See
Daniels, supra note 70. Daniels notes that he does not intend to produce new
political theory, but rather will rely heavily on Rawlsian notions of liberal
justice. See id. at 37. He argues that needs are critical to understanding the
distribution of health care. Daniels's discussion stresses that needs must be
fulfilled to enable equality of opportunity. See id. at 39.

What emerges is the claim that health-care institutions should have the limited
- but important - task of protecting people against a serious impediment ... On
this view, shares of the normal range will be fair when positive steps have been
taken to make sure that individuals maintain normal functioning, where possible,
and that there are no other discriminatory impediments to their choice of life
plans.

Id. at 57.

    Using this as his guiding principle, Daniels then attempts to construct a
just health care system. He wants to guarantee all citizens access to some basic
tier of services. "The basic tier ... would include health-care services that
meet health-care needs, or at least important health-care needs - as judged by
their impact on the normal opportunity range." Id. at 79 (emphasis omitted). He
provides few operative principles, however, for deciding tough distributional
questions.

    Daniels's reliance on notions of liberal justice to define health care, not
the inadequacies of his foundation, are explored here. Nowhere in this portion
of his argument does Daniels consider professionals or professional ethics. In
fact, he raises these issues later, but only to show the peripheral nature of
professional ethics to just health care, and to suggest that it would be
inappropriate to rely on provider-based principles to determine an ethical
distribution of health care resources. See id. at 114-39.

    Ezekiel Emanuel's book, The Ends of Human Life, covers much of the same
territory, but on a quite different path. See Ezekiel J. Emanuel, The Ends of
Human Life 150-54 (1991). While Daniels does not consider the relation between
professional ethics and justice to be critical, Emanuel (at least in his initial
chapters) does. He notes that professional ethics cannot be distinguished from
political theory, but there must be a synergistic relationship between these two
areas of thought. He rejects various conceptions of medical ethics because of
their failure to consider carefully the tenets of political philosophy. Id. at
27-29. In this regard, the argument is quite similar to mine in Just Doctoring.
See Brennan, supra note 24, at 50-96.

    According to Emanuel, however, the problem is with liberal political
philosophy. He contends that liberal justice, dependent on the notion of
neutrality, simply cannot provide the kind of ends that inform an ethical
framework. See Emanuel, supra, at 152. Medical ethics needs political
philosophy, but liberalism cannot be the kind of political philosophy that
medical ethics needs. Much of Emanuel's book is a demonstration of the poor
manner in which a liberal state resolves medical-ethical questions. Indeed, not
even democratic principles can overcome the deficiencies that arise out of the
neutrality principle. See id. at 150-54.

    Obviously influenced by his advisor, Michael Sandel, Emanuel sees a much
stronger distinction between communitarianism and liberalism than perhaps others
do. What is striking about his book, however, is that it attempts to give
substance to notions of communitarianism, something that many scholars crave.
Unfortunately, his proposal for small community health programs seems to be
based primarily on a utopian trust in the tenet "small is beautiful." He expects
small community health programs composed of a few thousand people to be able to
overcome many of the problems he finds in end-of-life decisions and just
distribution of health care, problems with which liberalism is unable to cope.
See id. at 178-244. A reader is left to question whether community health
programs are to be taken seriously. It is not at all clear how community health
programs would develop the expertise that Emanuel assures they would have. Nor
is it clear that radical inequality would not develop around community health
programs, especially if budget constraints begin to ration down the value of the
public voucher. In fact, the community health programs most closely resemble
employer/self-insured plans that are ERISA-qualified. It is exactly these plans
that take advantage of restrictions on benefits and litigate to ensure that
distributive mechanisms in public programs are minimized or eliminated. See
infra notes 118-124. The selfish nature of the real world undercuts the utility
of the community health program experiment. Indeed, the key to "managed
competition" is the use of Health Insurance Purchasing Cooperatives to curb the
tendency of employer plans to exclude members with severe diseases and undermine
subsidies for the poor. See generally Alain C. Enthoven, The History and
Principles of Managed Competition, Health Aff., Supp. 1993, at 24, 29-37.

    Dr. Daniels's and Emanuel's efforts to step forward with these tough
problems are admirable. They do not, however, offer any real solutions. My own
efforts in this essay are much less grand. I seek to enumerate a series of
principles that would arise out of medical ethics if practitioners are willing
to extrapolate from the principles that guide their individual relationships
with patients to distributional questions.




n80.  Norman Daniels indicates that health care requires only "fair equality of
opportunity." See Daniels, supra note 70, at 39-42.




n81.  Much of this discussion is informed by conversations with John La Puma,
the result of which is John La Puma & Troyen A. Brennan, The Ethics of Physician
Payment Reform: Or, RBRVS: What Values Drive It? (unpublished manuscript, on
file with the author). This is not to suggest that La Puma would agree with all
or even many of the views expressed in this Article.




n82.  See John Rawls, A Theory of Justice 118-50 (1971).




n83.  See Brennan, supra note 24, at 50-96.




n84.  Linda Emanuel has suggested to me that this approach is best characterized
as "bottom-up" reasoning. Traditional analyses of liberalism and medical care
are "top-down." In many ways, they have different audiences - the former appeals
to health care providers and the latter to medical ethicists and philosophers.
For examples of both approaches, see supra note 79.




n85.  See Paul T. Menzel, Some Ethical Costs of Rationing, 20 Law, Med. & Health
Care 57 (1992) (discussing this and other costs of explicit rationing).




n86.  See Nancy S. Jecker, Integrating Medical Ethics with Normative Theory:
Patient Advocacy and Social Responsibility, 11 Theoretical Med. 125 (1990)
(discussing maximally and minimally restricted patient advocacy). Under the
model of minimally restrictive patient advocacy, "considerations of justice do
furnish a moral basis for individual action, because principles of professional
ethics derive from roles specified by just institutions." Id. at 126. Under
maximally restricted patient advocacy, "both considerations of social justice
and other considerations involving social welfare afford a moral basis for
individual action, because principles of professional ethics derive from
normative principles generally." Id.




n87.  See Jay Katz, The Silent World of Doctor and Patient 201-02 (1984).




n88.  See Uwe E. Reinhardt, Reforming the Health Care System: The Universal
Dilemma, 19 Am. J.L. & Med. 21 (1993); see also Robert S. Stern et al., The
Emergency Department as a Pathway to Admission for Poor and High-Cost Patients,
266 JAMA 2238, 2242 (1991).




n89.  This is no small order, nor is it original. Others have been concerned
about the need for moral integrity in health care institutions, especially those
involved in the training of physicians. See, e.g., Roger J. Bulger, Covenant,
Leadership, and Value Formation in Academic Health Centers, in Integrity in
Health Care Institutions: Humane Environments for Teaching, Inquiry, and Healing
3 (Ruth E. Bulger & Stanley J. Reiser eds., 1990). Breaking down the barriers
between interpersonal and institutional ethics does create a risk that the
bureaucratic and professional influences of modern medical organization will
overcome ethical behavior. See Stephen Toulmin, Medical Institutions and Their
Moral Constraints, in Integrity in Health Care Institutions, supra, at 21
(discussing constraints that the institutionalization of medical organizations
puts on the scope of moral medical practice). Thus, one does not advocate an
institutional aspect to ethics without some trepidation.




n90.  See La Puma & Brennan, supra note 81, at 7-9.




n91.  See generally Brennan, supra note 24, at 32-33, 42, 88-89.




n92.  Physician payment reform is an excellent example of the importance of
provider orientation. See id.




n93.  See generally Furrow et al., supra note 8, at 667-71.




n94.  See Robert Clark, Does the Non-Profit Form Fit the Hospital Industry?, 93
Harv. L. Rev. 1416 (1981); Clark C. Havighurst, The Changing Locus of Decision
Making in the Health Care Sector, 11 J. Health Pol., Pol'y & L. 697, 697-708
(1986).




n95.  See Brennan, supra note 24, at 24-49.




n96.  421 U.S. 773, 787 (1975).




n97.  See Frances H. Miller, Competition Law and Anti-Competitive Professional
Behavior Affecting Health Care, 55 Mod. L. Rev. 453, 454 (1992). For a general
review of antitrust in health care, see generally Symposium, Antitrust and
Health Care, Law & Contemp. Probs., Spring 1988.




n98.  See Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical Soc'y, 457 U.S. 332 (1982).




n99.  See Patrick v. Burget, 486 U.S. 94 (1988).




n100.  See, e.g., Daniels, supra note 70, at 114-38.




n101.  For a discussion of the relationship between principles of justice and
the distribution of social primary goods, see Rawls, supra note 82, at 60-65.




n102.  I have argued that this method can be reasonably characterized as
communitarian. See Brennan, supra note 24, at 85-88. Communitarianism has
evolved from liberal justice scholarship. It represents a reaction to the
emphasis on individual values in liberalism, and a recognition of the manner in
which one's community ties have epistemological and moral importance. See
generally Amitai Etzioni, The Spirit of Community: Rights, Responsibilities, and
the Communitarian Agenda (1993). In this regard, a theory of medical ethics that
requires consideration of the class of patients in addition to the individual
patients, and mandates that ethical values be reflected in the organization of
health care, circumscribes a communitarian enterprise. See Brennan, supra note
24, at 229.




n103.  Although he has rarely stated his views on ethics, I believe Clark
Havighurst is the leading intellectual proponent of this market-central
position. See, e.g., Clark C. Havighurst, The Professional Paradigm of Medical
Care: Obstacle to Decentralization, 30 Jurimetrics 415, 417-21 (1990).




n104.  See Eliot Freidson, The Centrality of Professionalism to Health Care, 30
Jurimetrics 431, 434 (1990) (The U.S. health care system is based on a set of
conflicting assumptions and methods, including the assumption that "response to
financial incentives by physicians will be constrained by an ethical concern for
the well-being of those to whom they provide services and a professional concern
for doing good work ... But there is real danger that conflict between one set
of assumptions will cancel out the benefits expected from elements of
another.").




n105.  Stanley J. Reiser, Consumer Competence and the Reform of American Health
Care, 267 JAMA 1511, 1512-13 (1992).




n106.  See, e.g., Stephen O'Connor & Joyce Lanning, The End of Autonomy?
Reflections on the Post Professional Physician, 17 Health Care Mgmt. Rev.,
Winter 1992, at 63; Ralph R. Reed & Darly Evans, The Deprofessionalization of
Medicine: Causes, Effects and Responses, 258 JAMA 3279 (1987).




n107.  See Havighurst, supra note 94, at 700-08.




n108.  See id. at 710-13.




n109.  See, e.g., id. at 711.




n110.  See, e.g., id. at 713.




n111.  See id. at 700-08.




n112.  See Clark Havighurst, Prospective Self-Denial: Can Consumers Contract
Today to Accept Health Care Rationing Tomorrow?, 140 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1755, 1805
n.122 (1992). The effort to gain economic advantage is not limited to the
for-profit sector of medical care. See Dan W. Brock & Allen E. Buchanan, The
Profit Motive in Medicine, 12 J. Med. & Phil. 1, 3-17 (1987) (arguing that
problems that stem from profit-seeking exist in both for-profit and
not-for-profit medicine); see also Clark, supra note 94.




n113.  These are propositions that an ethical analysis will raise. Another
perspective may raise a slightly different question. For instance, Marmor's
political/economic analytical framework leads him to focus on a different set of
issues, including rationing, waste and prevention, competition versus
regulation, and medical care as a right. To be sure, there are many
intersections between this approach and one based on ethics. See Theodore R.
Marmor & David Boyum, American Medical Care Reform: Are We Doomed to Fail?, 121
Daedalus, Fall 1992, at 175, 181-86.

    Even more pragmatic are the valuative frameworks developed independently by
Blendon and Lundberg. Robert Blendon suggested that the following critical
issues must be used to judge health care reform: 1) Should everyone be
guaranteed a health plan?; 2) If yes, how do we provide universal coverage?; 3)
If no, how do we expand coverage?; 4) How should we pay for expanded coverage?;
5) Should Medicaid be retained?; 6) What health benefits should be covered?; 7)
How should costs be controlled?; and 8) Who should administer the health plan?
See Robert J. Blendon et al., Making the Critical Choices, 267 JAMA 2509 (1992).
George Lundberg, Editor of the Journal of the American Medical Association,
proposes an outcome grid that includes the following questions: Does the
proposal provide access to basic medical care for all our people?; Does it
produce real cost control?; Does it promote continuing quality?; Does it limit
professional liability?; Does it reduce administrative hassle?; Does it retain
necessary patient and physician autonomy?; Does it consider long-term care?;
Does it encourage primary care?; Does it enhance disease prevention?; and Does
it have the same power for five, ten, or twenty years? See George D. Lundberg,
National Health Care Reform: The Aura of Inevitability Intensifies, 267 JAMA
2521 (1992). For an example of how these analytical frameworks are used, see
Barbara P. Yawn et al., MinnesotaCare (HealthRight): Myths and Miracles, 269
JAMA 511 (1993).




n114.  See supra notes 87-89 and accompanying text.




n115.  It is clear how a bottom-up theory of the ethics of health policy might
differ from a top-down approach. The critical evidence that ability to pay
affects quality of care creates an intolerable situation for an ethics of health
policy that is based on the moral commitment of doctor to patient. This kind of
inequality might not be as troubling to a rights-based analysis, in which there
is an assumption that some primary goods may be distributed in an unequal
fashion. Certainly, the propositions of an ethics of health policy based on
medical morality are different from a constitutional analysis that clearly
tolerates inequality in the provision of medical care. See, e.g., Blumstein,
supra note 72, at 856-57.




n116.  Another ethical pathway that leads to rejection of casualty model of
insurance centers on analysis of the impact that genetic advances will have on
risk rating. See Thomas H. Murray, Genetics and the Moral Mission of Health
Insurance, Hastings Center Rep., Nov.-Dec. 1992, at 12.




n117.  Cream-skimming in this context refers to minimizing average cost by
selecting " "healthy' patients, i.e., patients who can be expected to receive
fewer services than others." See Joseph P. Newhouse, Is Competition the Answer?,
1 J. Health Econ. 110, 112 (1982); see also Mark V. Pauly, Is Cream-Skimming a
Problem for the Competitive Medical Market?, 3 J. Health Econ. 88 (1984); Joseph
P. Newhouse, Cream Skimming, Asymmetric Information, and a Competitive Insurance
Market, 3 J. Health Econ. 97 (1984).




n118.  This depends somewhat on finding the floor of benefits that is ethically
satisfactory. See Rawls, supra note 82, at 285-86.




n119.  See infra Propositions Three, Four, and Seven, at parts IV.C., IV.D., and
IV.G., respectively.




n120.  29 U.S.C.A. 1001-1461 (West 1985 & Supp. 1993).




n121.  See H.R. Rep. No. 533, 93d Cong., 1st Sess. 3, reprinted in 1974
U.S.C.C.A.N. 4639, 4642; see also Julia F. Costich, Note, Denial of Coverage for
"Experimental" Medical Procedures: The Problem of De Novo Review Under ERISA, 79
Ky. L.J. 801, 803-04 (1990-91).




n122.  See, e.g., Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts, 471 U.S. 724
(1985) (holding that, although the state-mandated health benefits statute was
within the broad sweep of the ERISA preemption, it was not preempted because it
is a "law which regulates insurance" per 514(b)(2)(A) of ERISA); Pilot Life Ins.
Co. v. Dedeaux, 481 U.S. 41 (1987) (holding that a state common law claim for
benefits "under an ERISA-regulated plan is not saved by 514(b)(2)(A)").




n123.  See FMC Corp. v. Holliday, 498 U.S. 52 (1990); District of Columbia v.
Greater Washington Bd. of Trade, 113 S. Ct. 580 (1992). See generally James R.
Bruner, AIDS and ERISA Preemption: The Double Threat, 41 Duke L.J. 1115 (1992);
Parmet, supra note 2.




n124.  See H & H Music Co. v. McGann, 742 F. Supp. 392 (S.D. Tex. 1990), aff'd,
946 F.2d 407 (1991) (holding that ERISA-qualified plan may limit AIDS benefits
to $ 5,000 lifetime costs).




n125.  See, e.g., Bricklayers Local No. 1 Welfare Fund v. Louisiana Health Ins.,
771 F. Supp. 771 (E.D. La. 1991). This area of the law is still in flux,
however. Recently, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the
summary judgment finding ERISA preemption that a federal district court had
entered in favor of several self-insured employee benefit plans and individual
plan participants. See United Wire, Metal & Mach. Health & Welfare Fund v.
Morristown Memorial Hosp., 1993 U.S. App. LEXIS 11112 (3d Cir. May 14, 1993).




n126.  See Robert A. Padzug & Gerald M. Oppenheimer, AIDS, Health Insurance and
the Crisis of Community, 5 Notre Dame J.L. Ethics & Pub. Pol'y 35, 38 (1990).




n127.  See BNA, Senate Bill Would Waive ERISA Preemption for State Programs, BNA
Pensions & Benefits Daily, Sept. 23, 1992, available in LEXIS, BNA Library,
BNAPEN File (discussing Senator David Durenberger's State Health Financing
Equity Act and Senator Pat Leahy's State Health Care Act).




n128.  Paradoxically, ERISA may also tend to limit workers' benefits insofar as
it allows restrictions that state law would otherwise invalidate.




n129.  Notably, in the recent Symposium on universal access to affordable health
care in the prestigious policy journal, Inquiry: The Journal of Health Care
Organization, Provision, and Financing, published by the Blue Cross and Blue
Shield Association, only two of the sixteen articles made even a passing
reference to ERISA. See Thorpe, supra note 19, at 133; Kronick, supra note 16,
at 217-18.




n130.  Pauly et al., supra note 47, at 10.




n131.  Id.




n132.  See Grumbach et al., supra note 44, at 2549.




n133.  See id.




n134.  Scott & Shapiro, supra note 45, at 512.




n135.  Brennan, supra note 24, at 222.




n136.  See 42 U.S.C.A. 11361 (West 1993); see also James K. Langdon II & Mark A.
Kass, Homelessness in America: Looking for the Right to Shelter, 19 Colum. J.L.
& Soc. Probs. 305 (1985).




n137.  See David U. Himmelstein et al., A National Health Program for the United
States: A Physicians' Proposal, 320 New Eng. J. Med. 102, 103 (1989) (PNHP
plan); Scott & Shapiro, supra note 45, at 511 (ACP plan).




n138.  This is not to say that all primary goods must be distributed in the same
manner. Indeed, the ethics of health policy presented here is not transferrable
to other institutions. It is based on the particular conditions of the community
of medical care, fundamentally the vulnerability of the sick person. One might
expect other communitarian enterprises to offer different distribution
mechanisms.




n139.  Many of the same justifications were integrated into arguments on behalf
of the right to a health care floor, which is consistent with liberalism. See
Brennan, supra note 24, at 219-25.




n140.  It is important to note that the ACP and PNHP proposals assume a single
package of benefits and a single standard of care. Similarly, in our present
system of health care, we expect physicians to practice according to a unitary
standard of care, that of the reasonable medical practitioner. See Annas et al.,
supra note 58, at 44. We currently allow different benefits packages, however.
For instance, some insurance plans may cover quite experimental therapy, such as
bone marrow transplantation for breast cancer, whereas others may not.

    Recently some commentators, particularly Siliciano and Havighurst, have
suggested that we should do away with the unitary standard of care. See
Siliciano, supra note 33, at 442-45; Havighurst, supra note 103, at 426-27. In
this plan, each insured could have access to similar benefits, such as heart
catheterization, but one patient (the one who bought a lower standard of care)
would be catheterized only after the chest pain had failed to respond to
medications over a one-year period, while the other (who had purchased the
higher standard) could go for catheterization when he or she first noted the
chest pain. The multiple standard of care regime accommodates differential
benefits packages, but is much more far-reaching. I have discussed its drawbacks
in detail elsewhere. See Brennan, supra note 33, at 446-51.




n141.  Intellectual gymnastics concerning the definition of a basic minimum
package of benefits are well practiced. Norman Daniels, for instance, has
rehearsed many of the arguments that people use today in his book, Just Health
Care, relying on articles that were written in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
See Daniels, supra note 70, at 59-85. None of his arguments about the basic
minimum, however, can produce anything more clear than the following statement:
"The basic tier on my account would include health-care services that meet
health-care needs, or at least important health-care needs - as judged by their
impact on the normal opportunity range." Id. at 79 (emphasis omitted); see also
supra note 79.

    Ezekiel Emanuel notes that a number of respected authors have suggested the
parameters of a universal benefits package. See Emanuel, supra note 79, at
114-16. He rejects the possibility of designing such a package, but many states
are now prepared to enact packages that will be fine-tuned over time. See, e.g.,
National Health Lawyers Association, Pennsylvania Enacts Legislation Providing
Healthcare to Uninsured and Underinsured Children: Also Creates Loan Forgiveness
Program for Doctors, Health Law Dig., Jan. 1993, at 29 (detailing the
Pennsylvania Children's Health Care Act, Pennsylvania's new childhood benefit
package); see also Paul E. Kalb, Defining an "Adequate" Package of Health Care
Benefits, 140 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1987 (1992).

    I agree with Veatch and Spicer that these definitions ought not be left in
the hands of physicians. See Robert M. Veatch & Carol M. Spicer, Medically
Futile Care: The Role of the Physician in Setting Limits, 18 Am. J.L. & Med. 15,
17 (1992).




n142.  In addition, cost controls must be carefully constructed so that they are
consistent with the ethics of health policy. Consider, for example, global
budgets. If a hospital or district overspends in a given year, will not some
patients face restrictions on benefits at the end of the year? These
restrictions, based on the calendar year of one's illness, are as irrational as
restrictions that exist today for those without insurance. They are also
unacceptable as a commitment to the class of all patients. Therefore, specific
mechanisms to prevent such inequalities must be implemented.




n143.  The other facile, generic answer is that a single benefits plan decreases
administrative costs. See, e.g., Grumbach et al., supra note 44, at 2549-51.
This is debatable.




n144.  See generally Arthur L. Caplan, Can Autonomy Be Saved?, in Arthur L.
Caplan, If I Were a Rich Man Could I Buy a Pancreas?: And Other Essays on the
Ethics of Health Care 256, 256-60 (1992).




n145.  Such concerns about inequality lie just beneath the recent storm over
rationing in Oregon. As has been exhaustively discussed in a variety of medical,
health policy, and legal journals, the state of Oregon sought a Medicaid waiver
to undertake a program of explicit rationing based on a list of acceptable,
cost-effective procedures. See Lawrence D. Brown, The National Politics of
Oregon's Rationing Plan, Health Aff., Summer 1991, at 28 (1991); Daniel
Callahan, Ethics and Priority Setting in Oregon, Health Aff., Summer 1991, at
78; David M. Eddy, Oregon's Plan: Should It Be Approved?, 266 JAMA 2439 (1991).
See generally Symposium, Rationing Health Care: Social, Political and Legal
Perspectives, 18 Am. J.L. & Med. 1 (1992); Symposium, The Law and Policy of
Health Care Rationing: Models and Accountability, 140 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1505
(1992).

    Although the Clinton Administration recently approved the Oregon experiment,
its implementation is conditioned on the state's refining its ranking of
services to prevent even the possibility of discrimination against people with
disabilities. See Pear, supra note 65. The Bush Administration had refused to
grant Oregon's Medicaid waiver on the ground that the plan violated the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). Id.

    Built into the texture of this list of acceptable procedures is a set of
quality of life measures so that the priorities represent an assessment of the
life one would live after therapy. The quality of life measures are part of the
general health policy model that researchers in San Diego recently developed.
See Daniel M. Fox & Howard M. Leichter, Rationing Care in Oregon: The New
Accountability, Health Aff., Summer 1991, at 7, 21. This methodology produced an
initial list that was reformulated by the Oregon Health Services Commission,
thus further burying the quality of life assessments. See id. at 7. For a
variety of reasons, these quality of life assessments would appear to have
little to do with discrimination against people with disabilities. See David C.
Hadorn, The Problem of Discrimination in Health Care Priority Setting, 268 JAMA
1454 (1992); see also Note, The Oregon Health Care Proposal and the Americans
with Disabilities Act, 106 Harv. L. Rev. 1296 (1993) (arguing that the Oregon
plan does not violate the ADA).

    The consideration of quality of life after therapy for certain conditions
hardly seems to constitute discrimination against people with disabilities, even
under the sweep of the ADA. See Pub. L. No. 101-336, 104 Stat. 327 (codified at
29 U.S.C.A. 706, 42 U.S.C.A. 12101-12213, 47 U.S.C.A. 225, 611). The peculiarity
of the decision by the Department of Health and Human Services under the Bush
Administration was reflected in the Department's inability to provide the Oregon
Medicaid program with specific advice about how to modify the plan in order to
comply with the ADA. See Letter from Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of the
Department of Health and Human Services, to the Honorable Barbara Roberts,
Governor of Oregon 1-3 (Aug. 3, 1992) (on file with the American Journal of Law
and Medicine). The Oregon proposal appears to treat all patients with a similar
diagnosis in a similar fashion, whether or not a patient is significantly
disabled by co-morbid illnesses. Hence, it does not intend differential
(discriminatory) treatment of people with disabilities.

    A unitary set of benefits might violate the ADA insofar as it would restrict
availability of treatment on the basis of notions of medical appropriateness
that are rooted in the existence of co-morbid conditions. Such conditions
definitely represent disabilities under the ADA, and, therefore, cannot be the
basis for access to public goods. It may be that the facile turn to vague
"medically appropriate" rationing of care is discriminatory.

    The advocate of a single benefit plan would counter, with some
justification, by asking whether we are ready to allow patients to demand futile
care based simply on their rights under the ADA. Patients' demands for futile
care have recently gained some attention from ethicists, many of whom conclude
that political rights cannot require specific interventions. See, e.g., Allan S.
Brett & Laurence B. McCullough, When Patients Request Specific Interventions:
Defining the Limits of the Physician's Obligations, 315 New Eng. J. Med. 1347,
1349-50 (1986). Difficult cases will eventually produce some restrictions on
ADA-generated patient rights. It seems unlikely that a patient with a terminal
disease, such as advanced lung cancer, will be allowed to demand cardiac
catheterization in order to evaluate mildly sympathetic chest pain. Congress's
adjustment of the ADA seems probable once such cases begin to appear.




n146.  See Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary 958 (Henry B. Woolf ed., 1975).




n147.  See generally Annas et al., supra note 58, at 43-44; Daniel Callahan,
Symbols, Rationality, and Justice: Rationing Health Care, 18 Am. J.L. & Med. 1,
2-3, 8 (1992).




n148.  A great deal has been written about the ethics of rationing. See, e.g.,
Paul T. Menzel, Oregon's Denial: Disabilities and Quality of Life, Hastings
Center Rep., Nov.-Dec. 1992, at 21; Menzel, supra note 79, at 3-21. This
discussion will focus on the difference between rationing in a single-payer
format and rationing in a multiple-payer format.




n149.  See Spencer Rich, U.S. Approves Oregon Plan for Health Care Rationing,
Wash. Post, Mar. 20, 1993, at A1, A10. See generally Sara Rosenbaum, Mothers and
Children Last: The Oregon Medicaid Experiment, 18 Am. J.L. & Med. 97, 99-101
(1992).




n150.  Peter P. Budetti, Medicaid Rationing in Oregon: Political Wolf in a
Philosopher's Sheepskin, 1 Health Matrix 205, 222-25 (1991); Maxwell J. Mehlman,
The Oregon Medicaid Program: Is It Just?, 1 Health Matrix 175, 191-94 (1991).




n151.  Rashi Fein has suggested to me another way to adjust a mixed system -
monitor the proportion of people who move into the private sector. If this
proportion begins to grow (greater than something like 5%-15%), the benefits
covered by the floor (the public program) must be ratcheted up to a higher
level. Professor Fein would not specify an exact figure; this should emerge from
the political process. If 40% of people are outside the public system, however,
the idea of a public approach would be defeated. The private system envisioned
here is similar to that which exists today in many Canadian provinces. See
Evans, supra note 44, at 371-72.

    There are plenty of such benefit packages now available. See Linda A.
Bergthold, Benefit Design Choices Under Managed Competition, Health Aff., Supp.
1993, at 99. But they are rarely specific, and tremendous debate is likely to
ensue regarding the appropriate floor package. See Sharon McIlrath, Debate
Shifts to "Standard' Benefit Plan, Am. Med. News, May 10, 1993, at 1.




n152.  See supra note 74 and accompanying text.




n153.  See, e.g., Clark C. Havighurst, Doctors and Hospitals: An Antitrust
Perspective on Traditional Relationships, 1984 Duke L.J. 1071, 1086.




n154.  See, e.g., Havighurst, supra note 94, at 713-17, 723-26; E.P. Melia et
al., Competition in the Health-Care Marketplace: A Beginning in California, 308
New Eng. J. Med. 788 (1983).




n155.  See Eli Ginzberg, The Destabilization of Health Care, 315 New Eng. J.
Med. 757 (1986); Arnold S. Relman, Practicing Medicine in the New Business
Climate, 316 New Eng. J. Med. 1150 (1987).




n156.  See, e.g., Mark V. Pauly, Is Medical Care Different? Old Questions, New
Answers, 13 J. Health Pol. Pol'y & L. 227, 235-36 (1988); Alain C. Enthoven,
Effective Management of Competition in the FEHBP, Health Aff., Fall 1989, at 33,
39-40.




n157.  See Eckholm, supra note 3. See generally Starr & Zelman, supra note 60,
at 7. The ardor is not restricted to the federal level. New Jersey has just
repudiated its long reliance on DRGs and adopted a managed care, competitive
approach. See New Jersey Health Care Reform Act of 1992, ch. 160, 1992 N.J. Laws
555 (to be codified at scattered sections of titles 17, 18, 26, 30, and 43 of
N.J. Stat. Ann. (West)). This reform act was in some ways precipitated by the
ERISA challenge to previous mechanisms for financing care for the uninsured. See
supra note 125; Jerry Gray, New Jersey Bill for Health Care Signed by Florio,
N.Y. Times, Dec. 1, 1992, at A1.




n158.  Furrow et al., supra note 8, at 476.




n159.  For a general discussion about health maintenance organizations and
managed care, see Thomas R. Mayer & Gloria G. Mayer, HMOs: Origins and
Development, 312 New Eng. J. Med. 590 (1985); see also Harold S. Luft et al.,
The Competitive Effects of Health Maintenance Organizations: Another Look at the
Evidence from Hawaii, Rochester, and Minneapolis/St. Paul, 10 J. Health Pol.,
Pol'y & L. 625 (1986); Roger Feldman et al., Health Maintenance Organizations:
The Beginning or the End?, 24 Health Services Res. 191 (1989).




n160.  R.G. Evans, The Canadian Health-Care Financing and Delivery System: Its
Experience and Lessons for Other Nations, 10 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev. 362, 370
(1992).




n161.  See supra Part IV.C.




n162.  See Arnold Relman, Dealing with Conflicts of Interest, 313 New Eng. J.
Med. 749 (1985). For discussion about this issue, see infra Part IV.E.




n163.  See Uwe E. Reinhardt, Reflections on the Meaning of Efficiency: Can
Efficiency Be Separated from Equity?, 10 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev. 302 (1992).




n164.  See generally James C. Robinson, A Payment Method for Health Insurance
Purchasing Cooperatives, Health Aff., Supp. 1993, at 65.




n165.  See Arnold S. Relman, Controlling Costs by "Managed Competition" - Would
It Work?, 328 New Eng. J. Med. 133, 134 (1993).




n166.  See id. at 135.




n167.  See Wickline v. State, 192 Cal. App. 3d 1630 (1986); see also Wilson v.
Blue Cross, 222 Cal. App. 3d 660 (1990). ERISA may preempt such suits against
qualified self-insured plans.




n168.  Strict care management will require some accommodation with existing
malpractice law. These issues have been carefully debated by Hall and Morreim.
See Mark Hall, The Malpractice Standard Under Health Care Cost Containment, 17
Law, Med. & Health Care 347 (1989); Haavi Morreim, Stratified Scarcity:
Redefining the Standard of Care, 17 Law, Med. & Health Care 356 (1989).




n169.  Furrow et al., supra note 8, at 472; see Eli Ginzberg, Physician Supply
Policies and Health Reform, 268 JAMA 3115 (1992); Peter P. Budetti, Achieving a
Uniform Federal Primary Care Policy: Opportunities Presented by National Health
Reform, 269 JAMA 498 (1993). There are also financial incentives for patients,
but universal access, single benefit plans are opposed to such "cost-sharing."




n170.  The alternative, noted above and emphasized in many programs that eschew
managed care, is very strict global budgeting. In many ways, however, the
ethical and practical effects of global budgets will resemble managed care.




n171.  See Brown, supra note 1; see also Blendon et al., supra note 113.




n172.  The marginal utility of managed care incentives has not been defined. See
Peter Franks et al., Gatekeeping Revisited - Protecting Patients from
Overtreatment, 327 New Eng. J. Med. 424 (1992).




n173.  See Alan L. Hillman, Financial Incentives for Physicians in HMOs: Is
There a Conflict of Interest?, 317 New Eng. J. Med. 1743 (1987). Advocates of
managed competition suggest they will "manage" incentives appropriately. See
Shoshana Sofaer, Informing and Protecting Consumers Under Managed Competition,
Health Aff., Supp. 1993, at 76. But HMOs will oppose any restriction on their
ability to control doctors. See Mike Mitka, HMOs Oppose Rules Protecting Doctors
from Risks, Am. Med. News, May 10, 1993, at 6.




n174.  Alan L. Hillman et al., How Do Financial Incentives Affect Physicians'
Clinical Decisions and the Financial Performance of Health Maintenance
Organizations?, 321 New Eng. J. Med. 86, 86 (1989).




n175.  See Troyen A. Brennan, An Empirical Analysis of Accident and Accident
Law: The Case of Medical Malpractice Law, 36 St. Louis U. L.J. 823 (1992).




n176.  This analysis suggests that, as we push managed care, liability
broadening doctrines, such as missed chance, should be encouraged, and that tort
reform measures ought to be rethought. See generally Brennan, supra note 24, at
128-39.




n177.  See Helen R. Burstin et al., The Impact of Hospital Financial
Characteristics on Quality of Care 14 (April 28, 1993) (unpublished manuscript,
on file with author). "Adverse events" are injuries that result from medical
management rather than disease. Id. at 5, 14.




n178.  Id. at 12-13.




n179.  See id. at 17. The poorest patients are the most expensive, but the least
insured. See id. at 3-4. For an endorsement of supplementary federal payments to
hospitals, based on the results of a different study, see Arnold M. Epstein et
al., Do the Poor Cost More? A Multihospital Study of Patients' Socioeconomic
Status and Use of Hospital Resources, 322 New Eng. J. Med. 1122, 1128 (1990).




n180.  Any system of financing health care is likely to lead to some operations
that are tightly run and efficient, and to others that are always cash-strapped.
These differences are likely to parallel differences in quality of care. While a
competitive system may induce quality deficiencies as some hospitals are driven
to the margin by the competitive process, the same could occur in a heavily
regulated, single-payer system.




n181.  The concern about the quality of care seems to transcend distinctions
between for-profit and not-for-profit institutions. There is little empirical
evidence that suggests that for-profit institutions render deficient care (with
the possible exception of for-profit dialysis centers). See, e.g., Troyen A.
Brennan et al., Hospital Characteristics Associated with Adverse Events and
Substandard Care, 265 JAMA 3265, 3268 (1991); Cindy Lou Parks et al., Quality of
Acute Episodic Care in Investor-Owned Ambulatory Health Centers, 29 Med. Care
72, 80-81 (1991).

    Moreover, the behavior of not-for-profit hospitals does not seem different
from that of for-profits. While the former does not legally earn a profit for
shareholders, it does attempt to maximize fund balances and other measures of
economic health. As competition increases, not-for-profits are likely to learn
how to induce the same behavior changes in providers that for-profits can now
induce. See Mark V. Pauly et al., Managing Physician Incentives in Managed Care:
The Role of For-Profit Ownership, 28 Med. Care 1013, 1013-14, 1023 (1990). Thus,
special concerns about for-profits within a competitive marketplace may not bear
scrutiny. See Gail Povar & Jonathan Moreno, Hippocrates and the Health
Maintenance Organization: A Discussion of Ethical Issues, 109 Annals Internal
Med. 419, 420-23 (1988).




n182.  Of course, there is little consensus about the value of outcome measures,
and even less consensus about how they correlate with one another. See Burstin
et al., supra note 35, at 2386.




n183.  See Jesse Green, Problems in the Use of Outcome Statistics to Compare
Health Care Providers, 58 Brooklyn L. Rev. 55, 55-56 (1992).




n184.  See Douglas F. Levinson, Toward Full Disclosure of Referral Restrictions
and Financial Incentive by Prepaid Health Plans, 317 New Eng. J. Med. 1729, 1730
(1987).




n185.  See Havighurst, supra note 112, at 1805-08.




n186.  See Maxwell J. Mehlman, Fiduciary Contracting: Limitation on Bargaining
Between Patients and Health Care Providers, 51 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 365 (1991).




n187.  See Brennan, supra note 24, at 199-200. Arnold Relman has offered an
alternative method for informing patients - the model of a socially responsive
health maintenance organization in which participants and providers discuss and
select a range of benefits. See Arnold S. Relman, Reforming the Health Care
System, 323 New Eng. J. Med. 991, 991-92 (1990). This is similar to Ezekiel
Emanuel's communitarian concept of the community health program. See Emanuel,
supra note 79, at 178-98.




n188.  Robert Truog has suggested to me that physicians ought to be advocates on
behalf of their patients similar to the way that lawyers are advocates for their
clients. Recent scholarship in legal ethics raises questions about the
acceptability of unlimited advocacy as a model for legal ethics. See David
Luban, Lawyers and Justice: An Ethical Study 154-58 (1988); see also David B.
Wilkins, Who Should Regulate Lawyers?, 105 Harv. L. Rev. 799, 815 (1992).




n189.  I am indebted to Dr. Marcia Angell for pointing out the importance of
this segregation of roles. These roles are also segregated insofar as providers
develop practice guidelines and critical pathways that are intended to support
cost-effective care.




n190.  See Robert G. Evans, Finding the Levers, Finding the Courage: Lessons
from Cost Containment in North America, 11 J. Health Pol., Pol'y & L. 585, 605
(1986).




n191.  See, e.g., Daniel P. Sulmasy, Physicians, Cost Control, and Ethics, 116
Annals Internal Med. 920 (1992).




n192.  See Greg Borzo, Doctor Salaries Beat Inflation, Am. Med. News, Dec. 28,
1992, at 7. In 1991, the median net income for all physicians was $ 139,000. See
id.




n193.  See La Puma & Brennan, supra note 81. Recent changes in Medicare Part B
have ushered in a new era in provider reimbursement that appears to be of some
ethical value. See id. Our argument about physician payment progresses from a
provider relationship with the patient to self-imposed limits on income. Id. at
6-9. It is, of course, possible to derive a similar conclusion from a top-down
argument that applies notions of liberal justice. Daniels sketched such an
argument nearly 10 years ago. See Daniels, supra note 70, at 124-35.




n194.  See Bill Clements, Pay Hikes for Most Doctors in Groups Lag Behind
Inflation, Am. Med. News, Sept. 28, 1992, at 13.




n195.  Daniels argues that there are "too many social, economic and
technological factors within a society that effect the distribution of
health-care needs for it to be possible for the individual professional, or even
the profession as a whole, to guarantee just health-care distribution." See
Daniels, supra note 70, at 117.




n196.  Id. (emphasis omitted).




n197.  The reality is that a common medical ethics does not dictate a common
approach to health care reform. This is true even within specialties. For
instance, while the American College of Physicians and the American Academy of
Family Physicians have publicly endorsed the concept of global budgeting, the
American Society of Internal Medicine opposes global budgeting on the grounds
that it would entail a huge bureaucracy, which could be inflexible and
insensitive, to establish and enforce the budget. See Karen Sandrick, Future
Fears: Organized Medicine Faces Managed Competition, Hospitals, Apr. 20, 1993,
at 34, 36. The American Medical Association also disapproves of global
budgeting, on the grounds that it would be arbitrary, it would not address
demographic changes or inflation, and it would not examine the reasons for
exceeding the budget. See id. Such conflicts will no doubt occur if and when
proposals for reduction in physicians' fees are elaborated. This possibility,
however, does not invalidate the extension of medical ethical reasoning to
health policy. The altruism of medical ethics should lead to some providers'
reexamination of their economic advantage.




n198.  See Brennan, supra note 24, at 229.


                              453 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   February 7, 1991, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

MD fee cap urged to help health reform

BYLINE: by Susan Reid TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C27

LENGTH: 409 words


Doctors' fees should be capped so the provincial government can direct more
money to health issues such as welfare reform, housing and food programs, says a
Toronto doctor.

And while Dr. Michael Rachlis got the support of Toronto's medical officer of
health yesterday, the Toronto board of health called for a public discussion
Feb. 27 before endorsing it.

An over-all cap on expenditures for doctors' services would be the same as
having a roads budget or an education budget, Rachlis told the health board.

Right now, he said, there's "no limit" to what we pay doctors.

"We can't just let the money hemorrhage out as it has been," said Rachlis, a
medical doctor and health policy consultant.

He urged the board to support his proposal in light of current negotiations
between Queen's Park and the Ontario Medical Association on increases to the
Ontario Health Insurance Plan fee schedule.

He also wants a provincial task force to redesign the method of payment for
doctors' services.

Dr. Perry Kendall, the medical officer of health, said in an interview he wasn't
trying to take on the province's doctors by supporting Rachlis' recommendations,
but he felt the ideas would improve health care.

"I'm just trying to suggest that in a universally accessible medical system, we
have a moral and ethical responsibility to make sure we're spending our money in
the right places to get the kind of health care we need," Kendall said.

The "open-ended, fee-for-service payments to doctors" account for nearly
one-tenth of the over-all provincial budget, said Rachlis, a much-quoted
spokesperson for the Medical Reform Group during the 1986 Ontario doctors'
strike.

"If doctors received the same proportion of the Ontario budget this year as they
did 13 years ago, there would be $ 1.6 billion available for other purposes,"
Rachlis said.

Meanwhile, he said, the allocation of income within the medical profession is
unjust and "perverse."

"Better doctors practising better medicine are often paid less than those
doctors who practise low-quality, revolving door medicine," he told the board.

Paul Rhodes, spokesperson for the Ontario Medical Association, said the
association wouldn't comment on the proposal during negotiations, which started
Jan. 16 and are continuing.

Rachlis said he was only "mildly concerned" that the negotiations would be
finished by the time the board debated his report at the next meeting.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              454 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                              May 26, 2015 Tuesday
                                Bangalore Mirror

Doctors with borders

BYLINE: Altaf Patel

SECTION: VIEWS

LENGTH: 637 words


Ethical, cultural and social values vary from race to race, and in different
countries. Recently, the Daily Mirror reported about two English pensioners -
man and wife - living at Heathrow Airport after they lost their house due to
financial distress. In a short time, the public donated 9,000 pounds for them.
In a country like the United Kingdom, the proverbial basics of roti, kapda and
makan are taken care of by the government. The social system is such that people
out of a job are even paid a living allowance and the National Health Service
provides for all medical eventualities. If only these altruistic lot knew how
many people live on the streets of Mumbai.

Here's one question that comes up: If ethical and socio-cultural values vary
from place to place, is the same true for the medical fraternity as well?

There exist many studies which compare and contrast the views of American
physicians with their European counterparts. (I found no such conclusive report
on Indian doctors.) Certain interesting differences between American and
European Physician exist. If the doctors are convinced that a procedure will
help you, do they downplay the risks? In the US this is true, but not so in
Europe.

Doctor responses vary on the issue of life support. This is an issue which poses
a natural dilemma for the treating physician. European physicians (25 per cent
of them) feel that under the current system, life support must be withdrawn in
warranted. In India, many factors go into making this decision. Much of it
revolves around financial constraints of the family of the un-revivable patient.
At some point of time, the relatives ask if continuing with expensive life
support might alter their loved one's condition. Such decisions are difficult,
in a way only those who have to make them might understand. As for me, I ask two
or three of my colleagues for their independent evaluations before taking a
final call.

The notion of physician-assisted suicide remains a hot topic of discussion. In
India, physicians are not pro-assistance. Certain states in the United States
have the legislation to assist patients if they are dying. Countries in Europe
allow doctors to prescribe but not administer lethal drugs.

Occasionally, an arguably harmless error in treatment may occur during therapy.
European physicians tend to keep this to themselves but an American doctor tends
to discuss it with the patient. I'd say their Indian counterparts tend not to
discuss it unless confronted, often brushing it off as inconsequential. Almost
25 per cent of European doctors say that it causes the patient unnecessary
anxiety - some even feel that they should discuss the situation with their
insurance company before acting.

Another interesting area is the use of placebos. It is true that many Indian
doctors prescribe such drugs, and that many patients are happy with the result.
Doctors in the USA are more likely to administer placebos, as compared to the
ones in UK.

Now for the million dollar question: Do physicians hide away discouraging
details of a terminal illness to bolster the patient's confidence? It is
important to realise that this is often a difficult stand to take. Obviously,
the exact situation is explained to the relatives. But often, even the patient
needs to be in the know so he can make a crucial financial decision. The wise
way, in my opinion, is to gently remind the patient that life is full of
uncertainties - even I, the doctor, in my state of fair health, have drawn up a
will as there is always an off-hand chance of unpredictable death.

Physicians' attitudes do differ in various countries. What is considered crass
in some cultures is acceptable in others. What is important is to deal with the
situation on a case to case basis, mining for, and doling out exact information
without undue anxiety.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              455 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                November 4, 2001

Cash: Wealthcheck: Adviser 1: Michael Norem

SECTION: Observer Cash Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 260 words


JERSEY is a separate jurisdiction to the UK, so different rules apply to
pensions and other investments. Marion must stop contributing to her UK personal
pension immediately as she is no longer eligible. Contributions made since she
became non-resident in the UK may need to be refunded. Stakeholder pensions are
not an option. Of the limited number of approved personal pension contracts in
Jersey, only one has an ethical fund link, that being Norwich Union. Jersey
personal pensions tend to be heavily charged.

Marion should check that she and Luke have suitable protection policies in
place, such as income protection, life and critical illness insurance. Most
forms of life assurance qualify for tax relief in Jersey. Given this, a good
life assurance savings plan is a viable alternative to a personal pension and
has the advantage of allowing full access to the proceeds at maturity. An
example would be Standard Life's Versatile Investment Plan, which also has an
ethical fund link.

Marion is right that Isas are not available to Jersey residents, but this is no
hardship since the tax regime tends to benign. Thus when investing for the long
term, an offshore fund or unit trust can be considered. In the socially
responsible investment area we would look first at NPI, Jupiter and Friends
Provident. Regular savings schemes can be set up into one of these unit trusts
or one of the child-friendly schemes from Invesco or Aberdeen, which have lower
minimums.

Michael Norem works for Moore Stephens Financial Management in Jersey


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              456 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                            December 11, 2005 Sunday

EU concerned about ethical drug rights in Israel;
EU Ambassador to Israel Ramiro Cibrian Uzal supports the US position before
tomorrow's decision on changing the Patents Law.

BYLINE: Hadas Manor

LENGTH: 401 words


"We're very concerned that Israel is not honoring the essential patent rights of
ethical drug companies," European Union (EU) Ambassador to Israel Ramiro Cibrian
Uzal told the Knesset Constitution, Justice, and Law Committee today. He thereby
supported the US position on the issue. The committee's decision is due
tomorrow.

"The European Commission is concerned about Israel's intention to amend its law
for patents in the pharmaceutical industry. Such actions are inconsistent with
Israel's commitments to the EU for proper and effective protection of
intellectual property rights.," he added.

"The EU's position has been made known to Israel many times. Up until now,
however, Israel has refused to take it into account, claiming that the proposed
amendment is only a clarification of the existing situation with regard to
patent extensions," he summed up.

Israel's generic industry, however, headed by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (Nasdaq: TEVA; TASE: TEVA), asserts that the amendment is designed to honor
the legislators' original intention. They say that the Knesset never wanted to
harm the ability to develop drugs and market them in other countries around the
world before the extended patent period.

Manufacturers Association of Israel Chemical & Pharmaceutical society chairman
and Teva VP Chaim Hurvitz says, "The reason that the ethical drug sector in
Europe has been shrinking for the past decade, with most companies being
swallowed up by US companies, is an intellectual property law that is unsuitable
for the period.

"The European companies have lost the competition. Research has fled to the US,
and most European countries have no developed generic industry able to compete
with the US and Canada.

"That's a real pity," Hurvitz says," because Europe's potential is enormous, and
medical insurance there is far more extensive than in the US. It's hard to
understand why they're so anti-generic, which increases the costs of European
governments."

Generic drugs are 70-80% cheaper than ethical drugs, and its is therefore also
in the interest of the health systems to put them on the market as early as
possible.

The US and the EU believe that the calculations of generic companies violate the
ethical drug companies' intellectual property rights, which invest $900 million
and 10-15 years in developing each ethical drug.

Published by Globes [online] - www.globes.co.il - on December 11, 2005

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              457 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                           February 11, 2017 Saturday
                             Print & First Editions

HCF quits fossil fuels over risks to members

BYLINE: Ethical investment Patrick Hatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 188 words


HCF has become the first Australian health insurer to commit to divesting from
fossil fuels, saying it cannot keep funding activities that could threaten its
members' health.

The fund, with 1.5 million members, has $1.39 billion in equities through an
investment trust and says about 1 per cent of that, or $14 million, is in fossil
fuel holdings. HCF decided to sell those shares after a review of its
international investment portfolio last year, but the not-for-profit insurer
kept the move under wraps until Friday.

"We tasked our investment advisors to identify a socially responsible investment
vehicle so as to ensure our money is not invested with companies or industries
that may impact the health and wellbeing of our members and the broader
community," HCF managing director Shaun Larkin said.

"We think this move brings our investment strategy into line with the
expectations of our members. We still have some way to go, but so far the
response from our members to the news has been positive."

The move came to light after HCF sent a member a letter later obtained and
circulated by carbon divestment group Market Forces.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              458 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                             July 19, 2008 Saturday

The Nation:

BYLINE: The Monterey County Herald

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 288 words


HONOLULU

Army defends

shooting of pigs

for training

The Army says it's critical to saving the lives of wounded soldiers.
Animal-rights activists call the training cruel and outdated.

Despite opposition by the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, the Army
proceeded to shoot live pigs and treat their gunshot wounds in a medical trauma
exercise Friday at Schofield Barracks for soldiers headed to Iraq.

Maj. Derrick Cheng, spokesman for the 25th Infantry Division, said the training
was conducted as scheduled under a U.S. Department of Agriculture license and
the careful supervision of veterinarians and a military Animal Care and Use
Committee.

"It's to teach Army personnel how to manage critically injured patients within
the first few hours of their injury," Cheng said.

The soldiers are learning emergency lifesaving skills needed on the battlefield
when there are no medics, doctors or facility nearby, he said.

BOHEMIA, N.Y.

Man kills ex-girlfriend,

then self at office

A man shot his ex-girlfriend to death at her office Friday and wounded a
supervisor who came to her aid before killing himself, police said.

William Lynch entered the Aflac insurance office at Sycamore Plaza on Friday
afternoon and asked to speak with his former girlfriend, Tiana Stokley, Suffolk
County police said. It was unclear how Lynch got into the building, which has a
keypad lock.

Stokley led him into supervisor Gary Destefano's office, where Lynch pulled out
a .40-caliber handgun and began firing, eventually turning the gun on himself,
Lt. Jack Fitzpatrick said.

Both Lynch, 37, and Stokley, 20, died at the scene. Destefano was airlifted to
Stony Brook University Medical Center, where he underwent surgery, police said.

Herald wire services

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              459 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              March 26, 2003 Wednesday Five Star Late Lift Edition

SLAY, RELIGIOUS LEADERS URGE LEGISLATORS TO SPARE HEALTH CARE MONEY FOR POOR

BYLINE: Doug Moore Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. C10

LENGTH: 407 words


St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay joined religious leaders Tuesday in urging the
Missouri Legislature to keep intact health care funding for the poor that is
targeted for cuts as the state tries to balance its budget.

"If you don't have good health care, virtually nothing else matters," Slay said
during a news conference at the Second Presbyterian Church in the Central West
End. Slay said his opinion was shared by St. Louis County Executive George R.
"Buzz" Westfall, who had to bow out of the event at the last minute because of a
family illness.

Slay and members from Metropolitan Congregations United signed a proclamation
calling on legislators to keep Missouri Medicaid programs in the budget fully
funded.

"You cannot morally cut health insurance for those who need it the most," said
Don Johnson, leader of the Ethical Society of St. Louis.

The proposed cut receiving the most opposition is MC+ for Kids, an insurance
program serving about 80,000 children. In all, a House committee has voted to
slash more than $200 million from state health insurance programs for the poor,
which, in effect, would eliminate coverage for 180,000 people, including 32,000
in St. Louis and St. Louis County.

Under the proposed health care changes, a single adult could earn no more than
$2,245 a year to be eligible for Medicaid; currently the figure is about $6,900.

Slay said the MC+ for Kids receives $69 million in matching federal money that
would be lost if the program is eliminated.

"This program leverages a great amount of federal money. It seem to me this is a
relatively small (expense) compared to the benefit received from it," Slay said.

A child in the program costs the state about $25 per month, while one emergency
room visit is $550, Johnson said.

"Don't penalize those least able to absorb these loses," said Bishop Joseph
Naumann of the Archdiocese of St. Louis.

A spokesman for the Missouri Republican Party suggested that those opposed to
the Medicaid cuts offer up other reductions to legislators.

"With the budget crisis as is, tough decisions have to be made. There's no
avoiding it," said party spokesman Scott Baker. "If they have any better ideas
on where to cut, I'm sure legislators would love to hear from them."

Naumann said the Roman Catholic bishops of Missouri are urging all residents to
contact their legislators to ensure health care funding is restored for next
year.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Doug Moore:; E-mail: dmoore@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-622-3580

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              460 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Investment News

                                  June 2, 2008

Brokers face insurance kickback investigation;
Connecticut may charge them with fiduciary-duty breach, and violating antitrust
and consumer protection laws

BYLINE: Darla Mercado

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984  words


A group of single-premium annuity pension plan brokers who allegedly took
kickbacks from insurance carriers is under investigation by the state of
Connecticut and may face steep penalties, according to Attorney General Richard
Blumenthal.

The brokers may be charged with breaching fiduciary duty to the pension plans,
he said. Mr. Blumenthal said they may have also violated antitrust and consumer
protection laws.

``A broker has fiduciary responsibility as well as a general duty to follow the
relevant statutes and ethical standards imposed by the profession,'' he said.
``We're turning our attention to possible violations of those legal and ethical
standards.''

Since the investigation continues, Mr. Blumenthal wouldn't name the brokers, but
he noted that the scope of the search isn't limited to the annuity brokerage
firms named in the latest settlement.

``We're turning our attention toward the ones who may be responsible for
violating the law, whether they were named in previous public documents or
not,'' he said.

In May, Connecticut reached a $1.7 million settlement with the Mutual of Omaha
(Neb.) Insurance Co. and will also require the company to reimburse consumers'
premiums and enact business reforms.

Since at least 1999, the company has paid about $1 million in undisclosed
compensation to a cadre of single-premium group annuity brokers, including
Brentwood Asset Advisors LLC of Camarillo, Calif. and Dietrich & Associates Inc.
of Plymouth Meeting, Pa.

The carrier hid the incentive pay within an ``expense reimbursement agreement''
so that a lower commission was disclosed to the pension plans and the kickback -
which was as high as 1% of the final premium - remained hidden to the plan
sponsors, Mr. Blumenthal alleged.

The carrier paid the brokers excess commissions in at least 78 cases, he said.

However, even though Mutual of Omaha was penalized for the kickback programs,
Brentwood and Dietrich urged the carrier to use the plans in the first place,
according to the settlement document.

Brentwood created the ``excess-commission agreement'' to fool pension clients
into thinking that the brokers took a low commission, while Dietrich convinced
Mutual to adopt the reimbursement program, the document states.

It's a familiar story for Dietrich and Brentwood, who were also alleged
participants - along with others - in a similar scheme with The Hartford (Conn.)
Financial Services Group Inc. and Principal Financial Group Inc. of Des Moines,
Iowa. The Connecticut Attorney General's Office pursued the carriers in both
instances, resulting in settlements in 2006 and 2007, respectively.

Nevertheless, the brokers evaded immediate punishment in all three instances,
which is ``shocking but not surprising,'' said Jon E. Drucker, partner at an
eponymous Beverly Hills, Calif.-based law firm.

``The insurers are making full restitution to the clients under the settlement
agreements, so the brokers will probably face no charges,'' he wrote in an
e-mail. ``But they committed violations very similar to those settled by the
insurers, and could have been brought up on similar charges.''

Aside from fiduciary duty, the brokers may have violated the state's antitrust
and unfair-trade-practices acts, according to industry experts.

They received the compensation in exchange for giving Mutual of Omaha the ``last
look'' in bidding opportunities and ``competitive feedback'' to which other
carriers didn't have access, Mr. Blumenthal alleged.

But that's not all.

``They disclosed information about the annuity bidding process in exchange for
commission,'' said Thomas Lund, partner with Oppenheimer Wolff & Donnelly LLP of
Minneapolis. ``That's commercial bribery, and that's something [Mr. Blumenthal]
could act against the brokers.''

If the lack of disclosure violates state insurance law, individual brokers could
also get in trouble, he added. But the Connecticut Insurance Department has not
received complaints on the matter and is not investigating, a spokeswoman said.

When it comes to seeking penalties against the brokers, attorneys pointed out a
couple of obstacles that could impede the process.

A million dollars in excess payments may not amount to much money per broker,
but it would be easier for the state to collect a fine and restitution from an
insurance carrier than from an insurance brokerage firm, which would be more
inclined to fight in court, Mr. Lund said.

Another roadblock to justice would be the firms' readiness to cooperate with a
continuing investigation, which made a difference in the amount of time it took
to settle with the insurers, compared with the brokers. This shouldn't be
considered a delay, Mr. Blumenthal said.

``The order [of the settlements] may be different here, but the element goal is
the same,'' he said. ``It may be an issue of who cooperates first. We view our
progression in the investigation as simply a product of how and when evidence
becomes available.''

In the end, the settlement and investigation question insurance brokers' tenuous
relationship with pension plans and their sponsors.

Plan sponsors in this case could be subject to suits from the individual
participant, who can claim that the sponsor should have investigated the fees
and, in failing to do so, breached fiduciary duty, Mr. Lund said.

The complex position of the broker, who has a material interest in recommending
an annuity but is supposed to remain faithful to the plan sponsor, also is up in
the air.

The cases are ``virtually identical'' to past regulatory and class actions
against mutual fund firms that paid brokers under the table, he added.

``Some people will think that because this involves insurance instead of mutual
funds it makes a difference,'' Mr. Drucker said. ``Every agent of a principal is
a fiduciary. It doesn't matter if they're selling or giving advice on funds,
insurance, annuities or piggy banks.''

E-mail Darla Mercado at dmercado@investmentnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Art Credit: Richard Blumenthal: He's turning his attention to errant
brokers who may have slipped through the cracks.
Art Credit: Hunter Neal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: in


                      Copyright 2008 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              461 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Record (Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario)

                           January 28, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Priorities for a new prime minister; VIEW FROM THE LEFT: Time to reform awarding
of positions and contracts

BYLINE: GARY BORATTO, FOR THE RECORD

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 656  words


This week, The Record asked:

What should be Stephen Harper's priorities after the Conservative leader becomes
prime minister?

Canadian voters have decisively selected a minority government.

Calling it a decisive election may sound odd, but I feel that minority
governments present unique opportunities for co-operation between the political
parties -- the same kind that years ago led to the development of our national
health care system.

It was heartening to see the federal party leaders each vow to do their best for
Canada in their gracious acceptance or concession speeches. If there is civility
and co-operation, the opposition parties and the Conservative party can do much
that will benefit the people of Canada.

The Conservatives, trusted with a slender minority, must exercise the same
careful planning that was evident in their election campaign. They may also need
to set some of their platform aside, part of the price of governing.

Here are some priorities.

Firstly, as the election largely focused on ethical issues, it is clear the time
is right to reform Canada's system of patronage for political appointments.

Harper should act quickly and strike a multiparty committee that is charged with
the development of a system for the awarding of what are now political
appointments and contracts. The Conservatives have a unique opportunity to
develop an ethical system that will bring transparency to Canadian governance.
It would be a great legacy for Canada.

Secondly, while we know that Canada has many needs, we are not always sure how
and where the government will get the most value for its investment in coming up
with strategies to address them.

To this end, Parliament needs to undertake a sober assessment of the economic
state of the Canadian people. Such a needs assessment would help the
Conservative government to validate and prioritize its suggested program
directions. It would also be a firm foundation for cogent budgeting.

Among the obvious needs, child poverty remains a humiliating rent in the fabric
of our national honour. It reminds us that day care is only a small facet of a
greater issue, one that must be addressed if we are to cherish this resource
wisely. Not simply our future, children are among us and are too often hungry.

Consider, too, how our under-funded military is hampered and put at greater risk
in executing its proud peacekeeping and disaster-relief work, plus the ongoing
way health care is afflicted by reduced transfer payments.

Simply, clear priorities must be set. I do not want a decrease in the goods and
services tax if it means that even one child must remain hungry.

Thirdly, while a made-in-Canada alternative to the Kyoto accord has been
suggested, such a move would be unfortunate. We should keep our word
internationally and implement our part of this accord and continue to work to
reduce the harm to the environment that is being caused by pollution.

This need not be a burden if creative solutions are encouraged. Investments in
environmentally sound buildings and energy projects could even serve to improve
employment opportunities.

The recent Canadian development of hybrid railway engines in Alberta is a
success story that is touching railways across North America. Seeking to adapt
to a new world reality is never a waste of effort.

In the end, what the Harper government does will be of international importance.

Canada is a unique nation, one that is deeply blessed with resources, human and
natural, that are the envy of many other countries around the world.

Stewardship of the Canadian nation, with its worldwide roots, can show people in
other parts of the world that freedom and hope and tolerance can be viable
features of life in this century.

Perhaps, too, the Conservative party can renew the meaning of their name, and
set as a priority the conservation of that which is good about Canada: Peace.

Gary Boratto is minister at Westminster United Church in Waterloo.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CANADIAN PRESS , Child care and other issues involving children
should be a priority for Conservative Leader Stephen Harper as prime minister,
writers Gary Boratto and Angie Mohr agree.; Photo: GARY BORATTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Metroland Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              462 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 19, 2002

'OWN GOAL' JIBE AS LOW-PAID CARERS FACE HIGHER BILLS

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 316 words


GORDON Brown and Tony Blair were yesterday accused by a senior hospital doctor
of scoring an "own goal" with the Budget tax rises.

Accident and Emergency consultant Peta Longstaff said the Chancellor was raising
taxes for poorly-paid health workers at the same time as delivering a big cash
injection to the NHS.

Mr Brown and Mr Blair came face to face with their critic when they visited
London's Chelsea and Westminster Hospital to highlight plans to raise NHS
spending by a record GBP 40billion over the next five years, funded through a
one per cent increase in National Insurance. During a question-and-answer
session, Ms Longstaff said the Health Service was the country's biggest employer
with many low-paid staff like porters and nurses.

"How does that fit with putting National Insurance contributions up?" she asked.
"It sounds a bit of an own goal."

Mr Brown insisted it was the fairest way to raise the money.

He said: "The tax is done in a fair way. I would not have asked for a tax rise
unless it was absolutely necessary.

"I wouldn't have asked for a tax rise either unless I was convinced it would be
properly used."

Sitting alongside him, Mr Blair added: "It can't come for free.

"We have to decide as a country which is the fairest and best way to do it."

The encounter was nowhere near as explosive as Mr Blair's confrontation during
last year's general election with Sharon Storer, who complained forcefully to
him at the NHS treatment meted out to her partner who had leukaemia. But it
showed the Government still needs to win hearts and minds for its strategy.

Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith later attempted to seize on the incident but ended
up blundering by failing to recognise Ms Longstaff as a consultant.

He said: "No wonder Tony Blair and Gordon Brown got a warmer reception than they
were hoping for from an irate nurse."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              463 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune News Service

                             August 6, 2006 Sunday

EDITORIAL: Hawks and humans deserve compassion

BYLINE: Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 20388 words


Aug. 6--An injured animal seems to bring out the best in many people, and
rightfully so.

When a red-tailed hawk with an arrow through its leg was spotted flying around
Reading Country Club in Exeter Township for a month, several people made
attempts to capture the bird so the arrow could be removed.

Club members interrupted their rounds to try to catch the bird. Club personnel,
who had been listening to the hawk's shrieks since the beginning of July, made
several attempts to catch it.

Animal experts from the Reading-based Humane Society of Berks County Inc., the
Animal Rescue League and the Red Creek Wildlife Center used various lures,
including a live pigeon and a rat decoy, but they, too, were unsuccessful.

Except for the arrow in its leg, the hawk appeared healthy. It was estimated to
be about 3 months old and still being fed by its parents.

But it was obvious the hawk would not be able to fend for itself and live a
normal life if the arrow wasn't removed.

Finally, word of the hawk's plight came to the attention of two Lehigh County
falconers, Al Molchan and Jim Spess. Using a live hamster and their knowledge of
raptors, the pair were able to lure the hawk into a trap.

The hamster was unharmed, and the hawk was on its way to the Wright Veterinary
Medical Center in Northampton County, where veterinarian Dr. Kirsten Reis
removed the arrow in a 15-minute operation.

The arrow, which had pierced the muscle of the hawk's leg, was difficult to
remove because it had been in the bird for so long, Reis said.

However, the prognosis is good, and the hawk is expected to be brought back to
the country club soon and released.

The hawk's future is much brighter now, thanks to Reis and the two falconers,
who donated their time and talents, and to all of those whose concern for the
bird heightened the interest in its plight.

But as happy as we are that the hawk can live its life without the encumbrance
of an arrow, we can't help but wonder why it seems to be so hard to stir up the
similar compassion for our fellow human beings.

Compassion does not seem to be a major concern in today's world where age-old
hatreds spur disagreements that quickly degenerate into armed conflicts and
where political views are used as excuses to justify personal attacks.

We seem to show little compassion for the millions of people in the United
States who have no health insurance and are just one major illness away from
financial ruin.

We cut taxes for the wealthiest in our society, but we also cut the money
available for PEL grants, which are used by less fortunate students who are
trying improve their lot in life through education.

Each year Congress receives its cost-of-living increase and occasionally grants
itself a raise, but it lacks the compassion to increase the minimum wage for the
least fortunate in our society.

People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has thousands, if not millions, of
members, but where is the organization known as People for the Ethical Treatment
of People?

It is wonderful that people could rally to save the life of one hawk, and we
join in that celebration. But we would celebrate even more if that same
compassion were directed at the needy people in our society.

Copyright (c) 2006, Reading Eagle, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business
News. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060806-RE-0806-EDITORIAL-Hawks-and-humans-deserve-compassion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2006 Reading Eagle


                              464 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 20, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Every Edition

Doctors Dish on Their Patients in Anonymous Blogs

BYLINE: Margarita Bauza; Detroit Free Press

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. HE08

LENGTH: 767 words


As Internet blogging spreads across professions, doctors' observations and
opinions about patients -- some expressed in graphic detail -- are now ending up
on the Web for all to see.

Hundreds of doctors across the country are writing Internet diaries that
sometimes include harsh judgments of patients, coarse observations and distinct
details of some cases.

Medical blogging is so new that medical boards, schools and professionals
disagree on what is acceptable. Critics say the blogs cross into an ethical gray
area and threaten patient privacy while posing liability risks for health
workers and their employers.

A medical blogger, for example, wrote this in discussing an 18-year-old who on
Christmas Day had her third baby:

"I don't mind it so much when a young single woman comes in with her first
pregnancy, because anyone can make a mistake. But when that woman gets pregnant
repeatedly, time after time, she degrades herself and her children, by
condemning herself to a lifetime of dependency and irresponsibility."

The writer, who identifies himself as a neonatologist working in a U.S. urban
area, writes about his practice at http://www.neonataldoc.blogspot.com.

The anonymity provided by blogs has proved to be a powerful lure for doctors and
other medical professionals, who, sworn to strict rules of confidentiality
regarding patients, have few outlets to speak their minds.

Although many bloggers stick to innocuous subjects that don't involve patients,
others make patients the focus of their writing. Critics say that's risky.

"One of the fundamental aspects of medicine is that patients have to feel free
to tell doctors everything," said David Stern, a physician who teaches
professionalism at the University of Michigan Medical School. "They're not going
to tell us everything if they're asking themselves when they come in to see
their physician, 'Is my doctor going to blog about me?' "

T.J. Bucholz, spokesman for the Michigan Department of Community Health, under
which the state's medical licensing board operates, said he thought the
"neonataldoc" blog stayed in bounds.

"I don't see a lot of blatant HIPAA violations," Bucholz said, referring to the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which established
national standards to protect personal health information. "They're using first
names . . . but from my perspective, if someone were to identify themselves in
this blog, he is looking at very serious charges, not the least of which is
losing their license."

Some of the comments posted by "neonataldoc" seem crude. In December, he wrote
about defecation during birth and, separately, a 17-year-old who was giving
birth in the nude.

Other blogs are equally candid:

"I got called to the ER to deal with a man who had placed a piece of plastic
tubing (an aquarium pump tube to be exact) up his urethra, and it was now stuck
inside and neither the patient nor the ER physician were able to retrieve it."
(That's from http://urostream.blogspot.com.)

"I informed a patient's parents that we would call them when their child was off
the heart bypass machine and back in the intensive care unit. That went down
like a lead balloon as the child was in fact having spinal surgery. Oops." (From
http://mediblogopathy.blogspot.com.)

Critics find the trend troubling, not only because of the risk of compromising
patient privacy but also because of potential liability for hospitals.

"We're talking about professions that have legal and ethical obligations
regarding privacy that are governed by federal statutes," said Terry Bonnette, a
labor and employment lawyer in Detroit. "You should assume when you're blogging
that your anonymity is not absolute.

"Employers should be very careful about this. They are the ones who have the
most to lose, really. A hospital has every right to protect its image and
reputation."

Some blogs give advice on how to comply with HIPAA. The site
http://www.geneticsandhealth.com has an "honor roll" of blogs that do well at
abiding by privacy laws and disclosing biases.

"I just felt sites were not upfront about their affiliations," said Hsien Hsien
Lei, who has compiled this list. (Not a physician, she has a PhD in
epidemiology.)

"The line is very fuzzy," Lei added, when it comes to maintaining patient
privacy. "Every single doctor who blogs kind of defines it for themselves."

The only acceptable way to blog safely about patients is to ask for their
consent, said the University of Michigan's Stern.

"Absent that, you're on shaky moral ground," Stern said. "The only way you can
totally protect confidentiality is to not say anything." ?

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: District-Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              465 of 999 DOCUMENTS


            Colorado Springs Business Journal (Colorado Springs, CO)

                                December 1, 2006

Outsourcing some human resource functions can save time and money

BYLINE: Amy Gillentine

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 880  words


Small businesses face many hurdles - hiring employees, managing salaries,
budgets, health care plans and other benefits. But outsourcing some human
resource functions can sometimes save money and time.Known as professional
employment organizations, PEOs reduce the learning curve, said John Gifford,
spokesman for Accord, a national PEO with offices in Littleton."Especially for
new businesses, we offer very specific services to help them get started," he
said. "Now employers don't have to know about labor laws, taxes, wages and
benefits - we handle all that for them. "Small businesses benefit by being able
to pool their employees with companies that use the same PEO.

Health insurance costs are spread among a larger group, sometimes lowering
employer costs and premiums. "This just allows the business to be able to
address the core competencies of their business, why they opened in the first
place," Gifford said. "We can be their human resource specialist. "Professional
employment organizations are sometimes called employee-leasing or co-employment
companies. Business owners put their employees - including themselves - on a PEO
payroll and then "lease" them back for a monthly or annual fee. The PEO takes
over payroll and human resources functions such as withholding taxes, paying
insurance premiums and administering health care benefits. Using the large pool
of employees in a PEO, even the smallest companies can offer additional benefits
such as retirement plans, life insurance, health insurance, vision and dental,
job counseling and education reimbursement."It's a new model," said Edie Clark,
spokeswoman for the National Association of Professional Employment
Organizations. "It's different from traditional payroll outsourcing, because
they take on a larger part of human resources - they can even supply employee
handbooks, keep up to date with new laws and regulation and provide less
expensive insurance coverage, because it's coming from a group of employees.
"Clark said that PEOs even file payroll and income taxes under their own tax
numbers, relieving businesses of those federal responsibilities. "Some PEOs have
clients around the country," she said. "That can be helpful if one of their
businesses wants to expand to another state. The PEO can help them understand
the implications of moving to that state; the federal and state laws they'll
have to comply with. "According to the Small Business Administration, companies
spend between 4 percent and 12 percent of their payroll on human resources
functions such as administering payroll. A typical PEO charges between 4 percent
and 6 percent, Gifford said.PEOs were among the fastest growing business sectors
during the 19990s, according to the National Association of Employment
Organizations, generating about $51 billion in gross revenue annually. The
average client is a small business with 17 employees. But signing on with a PEO
might not be for everyone, cautions Barbara Getter, an assistant professor of
science and management at Regis University."Some companies won't benefit," she
said. "It's not a good fit for a company that uses a lot of consultants, because
consultants are responsible for their own payroll and insurance. It isn't a good
fit if you have a lot of employees who work on commission. The PEO setup is not
equipped for commission employees. But if you just are collecting hours and
issuing a paycheck, it's an awesome idea. "The SBA said that the number of U.S.
laws and regulations governing small business grew about 60 percent from 1980 to
2000, and the owner of a small- or medium-sized business now spends up to a
quarter of his time doing employment related paperwork. Those regulations,
Getter said, are one of the reasons small- to medium-sized companies can benefit
by using a PEO."It can get very complicated," she said. "Small businesses have
to worry about workers' compensation, they have to worry about OSHA
requirements, about benefits. But with the PEO, they can focus on their core
competency - and grow their business. "PEOs handle large sums of money for
companies, and in the early days of the business, that led to some unethical
practices. But in 1995, the industry created a nonprofit accrediting
organization, the Employer Services Assurance Corp. Through a series of ethical
and financial guidelines, ESAC can ensure a company's financial stability and
ethical standards."We offer a financial assurance program, similar to the FDIC
for the banking industry," said Executive Director Jane McGoggins. "If a company
doesn't perform as a client expects, we can step in and issue surety bonds to
cover that PEO's clients, employees and vendors. "Only 24 corporations are
accredited, which is voluntary, and those companies handle a total of $17
billion in employee wages, McGoggins said. Accredited companies must provide
proof of payroll and workers' compensation insurance, as well as other financial
documents. "There are several financial requirements, internal audits are
required and they are required to send us those audits quarterly, for example,"
she said. "As in any industry, there's the potential for fraud. But we're
working with other groups to prevent that, and make sure the industry is
complying with state and federal regulations.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              466 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               Brentwood Gazette

                                 March 28, 2002

Praise for SMART team

SECTION: General; Other; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 313 words


MIDWIVES at Harlow's Princess Alexandra Hospital have been delivering the goods
according to a new report by the Commission for Health Improvement (CHI). The
report, which was published on Tuesday, picks out the hospital's specialist
midwifery and resource team - known as SMART - for particular praise. A CHI
spokesman said: "The SMART team is made up of five midwives who provide 24-hour
care to a small number of women. The aim of the team is to break the cycle of
social deprivation by providing one to one midwifery care to disadvantaged
mothers - in particular those who are single, unsupported, or drug users." Other
areas praised in the CHI report include the hospital trust's "well-established"
clinical ethics committee.

The work of the committee, which includes two lay members, is geared towards
supporting hospital staff while at the same time developing policies that
address complex ethical issues such as living wills.

However, the report also highlighted the need for the hospital's executive team
to continue to promote an "open and learning culture" throughout the
organisation.

CHI chief executive Peter Homa revealed that the CHI's review had been upgraded
to fast track status in response to concerns raised over the standard of nursing
and clinical care.

Communication Ineffective communication between staff and the inadequate
handling of a complaint were also investigated.

But Mr Homa said he now hoped that hospital's management team would be able to
implement an action plan being produced in response to the report.

He said: "The CHI commends the Princess Alexandra Hospital NHS Trust for its
SMART team and its clinical ethics committee, both of which aim to improve the
standard of care received by patients." lCopies of the report in full are now
available as a free download from the CHI website at www.chi.nhs.org Caption:

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2002 Brentwood Gazette


                              467 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times Herald (California)

                            November 27, 2009 Friday

The GOP's ugly truth

BYLINE: Published By Times Herald

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 247 words


Even with all the Republican fear-mongering noise about health care reform, I
would think there would be more people stating the ugly truth behind the GOP's
frantic offensive aimed at health care reform: That the people at the highest
income levels (and that doesn't mean doctors, nurses and health-care workers --
think executive chief officers, etc.) are making big, big money based on the
health care system the way it is.

They don't want to talk about the current state of the system, such as:

* People paying through the nose for health insurance that then denies them care
due to a "pre-existing condition."

* The ridiculously high cost of health insurance for those of us lucky enough to
have the access to it.

* The people who have lost their homes and anything else of value they need to
pay medical bills for an uninsured loved one.

* The many people who have lost their lives because they couldn't afford medical
care.

They want to talk about "liberty," "freedom," "death panels," and "Socialized
medicine." They want us to believe their absolute knee-jerk opposition to any
kind of reform has to do with ideals, and not the fact that any substantive
change that includes affordable and ethical health coverage for the working and
middle classes is going to mean the crooks at the top of the food chain -- and
the army of politicians they pay a nice chunk of that big money to -- are going
to be somewhat less rich as a result.

Are they really kidding anyone?

Angela Stewart

Vallejo

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              468 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     July 26, 1988, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Test-tube fertilization still sparks controversy

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 552 words


   More than 350 Canadians have started life in a glass laboratory dish since
test-tube fertilization was imported to this country from Britain.

But the joy brought to several hundred infertile couples in Canada has been
accompanied by controversy and some tough ethical questions.

While the world's first test-tube baby, Louise Brown, was born 10 years ago
yesterday, Canada's first didn't arrive until about five years ago.

On Christmas Day, 1983, Robert John Saunders Reid was born: the first test-tube
baby conceived and born in Canada. Born to John and Margaret Reid of Vernon,
B.C., he weighed two pounds, two ounces.

Dr. Victor Gomel led the medical team that carried out the fertilization and
embryo transfer at the University of British Columbia.

Now the procedure is done at a dozen hospital-based clinics - five in Ontario,
four in Quebec, one each in Vancouver, Halifax and Calgary. A clinic in Winnipeg
ended its service earlier this month because of a $500,000 deficit.

Plans vary

The procedure is expensive: It can cost $1,200 to $4,000 for each attempt, with
some provincial medicare plans covering some expenses.

In Toronto the procedure costs about $3,500, with doctors' fees and lab costs
paid by government health insurance. But in Calgary, it costs a couple $4,200 a
try, plus $1,000 for drugs. Nothing is covered by Alberta's health plan.

The failure rate is high. Many couples try the procedure several times without
success. A recent survey estimated 3,500 Canadian women have tried it, but only
about 365 babies had been born. At the Winnipeg clinic, for example, only five
couples out of 88 who tried had babies.

Consequently, the psychological toll on a couple can be heavy.

At University Hospital's clinic in London, Ont., where doctors claim an
unusually high success rate of 21.7 per cent in live births, some couples are
advised to stop after two tries. Others, with healthy-looking embryos, may be
advised to make up to four attempts, three to four months apart.

Some have questioned the medical risks of drugs used to stimulate the women's
ovaries to produce eggs. One drug, a hormone called buserelin, is suspected of
causing cancer.

Problems occur

Clinics have also been criticized for failing to warn couples about the high
rate of multiple and premature births and caesarean deliveries associated with
the technique.

A 1985 Australian study found women who have used the test-tube technique,
called in-vitro fertilization, are about three times more likely than other
mothers to give birth prematurely.

Clinics such as the LIFE clinic at Toronto East General Hospital, freeze embryos
to be used if the first attempt at implanting fails, or for a try at a second
pregnancy.

Dr. Sam Batarseh, clinic co-ordinator, says the frozen embryos have about a
50-per-cent survival rate.

But an ethical issue arises over what to do with frozen embryos if the couple
decides not to try again. Questions arise on the possibility of experimenting on
embryos or tampering with genetics.

Dr. Stan Brown, co-director of the University Hospital clinic, says fearing
research because of the possibility of experiments on embryos is like being
"afraid to develop the automobile because somebody might use it to rob a bank."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              469 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 20, 2004

Holmes too busy working to bask in celebrity status Peta Bee on the athlete's
rallying example

BYLINE: Peta Bee

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 684 words


Next weekend will mark the end of a long and arduous journey for more than
47,000 runners. One of them, in particular, will have earned the right to put
her aching feet up even more than the rest.

While the masses competing in the Bupa Great North Run pound the 13-and-a-bit
miles of tarmac from Tyneside to South Shields on Sunday, Kelly Holmes will have
ended her season with a sprint finish in the Great North Mile the day before. So
what on earth, we wonder, will Kelly do next?

Take time out to absorb her new found celebrity? Lap up the glitzy invites and
the magazine makeovers? Hardly. For Holmes the racing around looks set to
continue, albeit away from the track. Barely will she have time to catch her
breath, for instance, before heading to South Africa next month to co-ordinate a
training camp for a crop of talented youngsters who will have her undivided
attention for a month.

Drawing on her vast experience, she will guide and educate eight of Britain's
most promising teenage middle-distance runners and their coaches about what it
takes - pitfalls, disappointments and all - to get to the top in athletics. It
is a project which was entirely her own idea, fuelled by her desire to see the
next generation of athletes follow in her tracks. Inspiration for the camp came,
she said, during her darkest hours spent mulling over what she might do with her
life if injury were to have ended her career last year.

She is also spearheading a major national fitness campaign for children. Set up
by the Fitness Industry Association, the umbrella body for health clubs in the
UK, and jointly run by the Youth Sports Trust, the Norwich Union Adopt-A-School
scheme links private gyms with local primary schools. The hope is that 40,000
pupils around the country will be up and running during the programme's first
year.

Prior to Athens Holmes spent time teaching children from Stockwell Park Primary
School in London about the benefits of fitness and sport, something she has
pledged her continued involvement in over the next 12 months. Fitted around
these commitments and her winter training programme will be endless awards
ceremonies, yet more television chat shows and appearances at whichever
celebrity bash she might choose to attend.

Of course, the question on many lips is whether these distractions will abate
her hunger to compete again on the track. Who could blame her if she calls it a
day? She is 34, nudging geriatric status in elite athlete terms.

Analysts have predicted her personal fortune could escalate to £25m. In her two
Olympic golds she has achieved the ultimate; raising her game after that will,
one assumes, be physically tough but psychologically nigh on impossible. After a
career that could be written up as a textbook on sports injuries, why not revel
in the glory and throw away the running spikes for good?

Comparisons have understandably been drawn with Denise Lewis, who never appeared
to regain the appetite for success that resulted in her Olympic gold four years
ago. After Sydney Lewis had a turbulent reign as champion. That and the fact
that, while other athletic events present regular opportunities to reignite the
competitive spark, the heptathlon relies mostly on major championships combined
to deflate her sense of purpose.

But perhaps the biggest stumbling block in her failure to challenge for a medal
in Athens was a common affliction among champions: she simply allowed her
celebrity to become all-consuming at the expense of her sport.

It speaks volumes for Holmes that she is adamant her self-will and inner resolve
to run at the highest level remain intact. She has outlined distinct goals - she
wants to win an indoor title, run faster, get more medals - and most crucially
she remains grounded by the knowledge that she is perhaps one injury away from
retirement. If she has a mantra, it must be that success does not come knocking
readily on your door, so grab it while you can. Which is why, in contrast to
Lewis, being Olympic champion will prove the making, not the breaking, of Kelly
Holmes.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              470 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                               September 29, 2003

Athletics: Gloucesters old spots come up with new talents: Peta Bee on a fresh
initiative for British Youth

BYLINE: Peta Bee

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 699 words


If the BBC is serious about finding a future champion through its Born to Win
series, then I suggest it dispatches the programme's researchers up the M5 for a
day trip to Gloucestershire. Remarkable things are happening in a county that,
let's face it, has never had much of a reputation for churning out great
sporting talent, but which is currently producing potential world-beaters like
there is no tomorrow.

Fourteen-year-old Emily Pidgeon started breaking records at 12, when she set the
European best for her age at 3,000m, and hasn't stopped since. This summer,
Pidgeon became the youngest woman ever to represent Britain in an international
distance track race and broke national record after national record along the
way.

Not far behind was her team-mate Sarah Hopkinson, the fastest ever 11-year-old
in Europe at 800m and 1500m. Both are running significantly quicker than Paula
Radcliffe, Kelly Holmes and pretty much anyone else who progressed to greater
things did at the same age.

As if to prove there really is something in the west country water, their
training partner 11-year-old Ben Coldray became British record holder at the
mile this year.

Not that Gloucestershire has total monopoly of the athletic gene pool. Britain's
current glut of sporting prodigies stretches the length of the country, from the
teenage tennis sensations Jade Curtis in Cornwall and Hannah Grady in
Warwickshire to Scotland, where Liz McColgan's 12-year-old daughter Eilish, who
recently beat girls seven years her senior to finish third in the BUPA Junior
Great North Run, appears to be following in her mother's footsteps.

Ah, you might think, but where will they be when it matters? Will Pidgeon and
the other fledglings still be flying across the line in first place when Britain
needs a win to haul itself off the bottom of the 2012 Olympic medal table? Well,
thanks to a new programme aimed at nurturing such precocious sporting talent
through the bumpy ride from puberty to adulthood, there is a greater chance than
ever that they will indeed make it.

Developed and funded by the Departments for Skills and Education and for
Culture, Media and Sport, the Junior Athlete Education (JEA) initiative is part
of the government's national talent framework.

Over the next three years, the Youth Sport Trust will be rolling out the JEA
programme on a national basis through its coordinator Chris Earle. Among other
things, it hopes to provide a comprehensive education strategy to prepare
parents, coaches and the young athletes themselves for the pitfalls and
pressures they face.

The idea is that once athletic talent has been identified by national governing
bodies or schools, the children and their families will be introduced to the
services and workshops of the JEA. It is likely to act as a safety net to
prevent at least some of our best young hopefuls drifting away from sport.

Teenage champions have never had it easy, but if anything the odds against them
continuing to compete are greater than ever. Along with the physical changes and
psychological challenges of adolescence, they now have to cope with the mountain
of school exams that makes them the most tested generation of pupils in Europe.
Some are limited by a lack of financial support; others struggle against parents
who try to live out their own dreams vicariously through their children's
achievements.

Now shoe manufacturers have latched on to the notion that the younger the sports
star, the higher their market value. Nike signed a pounds 55m contract with the
17-year-old basketball player LeBron James and another deal with the 13-year-old
footballer Freddy Adu. But even they are knocking on a bit compared with
Reebok's signing of the basketball prodigy Mark Walker Jr, who is 3 1/2 .

Lumped together, these pressures might normally prove too great a burden for
young shoulders to bear. Which is where the JEA can make a difference. It can't
supply the psyche required to become a champion, but it can provide support
through difficult times. If only one of the latest crop of sensational
youngsters makes it as a result, it will be a system worth its weight in gold.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              471 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 19, 2002, Friday

Brown's 'own goal' over tax rise

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor and George Trefgarne

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 732 words

TONY BLAIR was forced on to the defensive over the Budget last night after it
emerged that the rise in National Insurance contributions would cost the health
service and other public sector bodies more than pounds 500 million.

It could also lead to higher council taxes next year.

The Prime Minister and Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, embarked on a campaign to
sell the first direct tax rises since Labour came to power by arguing that there
was no "cost-free" way of providing better health care.

Mr Brown admitted that abolishing the ceiling on NI contributions was a
political gamble and refused to rule out the possibility that there would be
further tax increases.

The Tories and tax experts predicted that the new one per cent surcharge would
be raised in future Budgets as a way of introducing a higher rate of tax on
incomes.

A carefully stage-managed meeting by Mr Blair and Mr Brown with health service
workers at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital backfired when they were
criticised for putting up taxes for poorly-paid health workers.

During a question and answer session, Peta Longstaff, an accident and emergency
consultant, said the NHS was the biggest employer in the country with many
poorly-paid staff.

"How does that fit with putting National Insurance contributions up?" she asked.
"It sounds a bit of an own goal."

Mr Brown insisted that the one per cent rise in NI contributions for both
employers and employees was the fairest way of raising the money. He said he
would not have asked for a tax rise unless it had been "absolutely necessary".
Sitting with him, Mr Blair said: "It can't come for free. We have to decide as a
country which is the fairest and best way to do it."

Downing Street later acknowledged that the NHS would have to pay pounds 200
million in extra NI employers' contributions for its one million staff.

But the Conservatives said the figure would be nearer pounds 300 million, which
would come out of the extra billions the Chancellor had promised the health
service. Tax experts criticised the rise in NI rates as unfair because it would
apply only to people who worked.

Consultants said that people earning as little as pounds 90 a week would pay
more tax, but those living off trust funds and inherited wealth would not be
affected, as the new surcharge did not apply to savings or investment income.

Council leaders protested that they would be faced with a bill of more than
pounds 300 million to pay the higher contributions.

Gordon Keymer, the Conservative group leader on the Local Government
Association, said that councils would have to raise the council tax unless the
Government provided extra support.

"This comes at a time when councils have already been forced to set the highest
level of council tax since it was introduced."

Iain Duncan Smith, the Conservative leader, described the NI rise as a "tax on
jobs" and insisted that it would influence future pay negotiations. Taken with
other measures in the Budget, labour-intensive jobs, including health, education
and the police, had been hit, he said. "The NHS is Europe's largest employer.
Well over half its total costs are staff costs."

In an attempt to convince the public that the extra money would not disappear
down "a black hole", the Government said it was embarking on the biggest reform
of the health service since it was founded in 1948.

A new system of financial incentives for staff and efficient hospitals
incorporates many of the principles of the previous Tory government's "internal
market" in the NHS, which was torn up by Labour when it came to power.

Alan Milburn, the Health Secretary, said NHS hospitals would have to compete
with each other for funds, with more cash going to those that performed best.
The pounds 40 billion rise in NHS funding over the next five years would enable
it to recruit 35,000 more nurses, 15,000 more doctors, build 40 new hospitals
and cut the average waiting time for an operation to six weeks.

Although the health service was the main beneficiary of the Budget, Mr Brown is
presiding over an explosion in the number of people receiving benefits.

The Institute for Fiscal Studies said the number of families receiving handouts
had nearly tripled to just under 6.5 million.

The biggest source of new benefits is tax credits, paid through the pay packet
by the Inland Revenue.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited


                              472 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 23, 2000, Saturday

OLD FOLK DESERVE A MEDAL;
 HOME HOLDS ITS VERY OWN OLYMPIC EVENT

BYLINE: Poppy Brady

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 273 words


SPORTING superstars of Sydney eat your hearts out! The Olympics are alive and
kicking in Birmingham after residents at a city home launched their own event to
coincide with that in Australia.

The tales of human endeavour are equally impressive from the members of Amberley
Court in Edgbaston, who have overcome all kinds of disabilities to stage their
own sporting spectacular.

They even launched the event in typical Olympian style with torch holder Dawn
Ward, aged 42, leading the parade in a toga and laurel head-dress.

Now they have a week of trials in basketball, skittles, bowls, Zimmer frame
racing, a walking stick race and the discus.

Their efforts will all be rewarded with official medals, cups and certificates
to confirm they have passed all the stringent tests.

Diane Flanner, activities co-ordinator at the run home, said: 'My daughter, who
is a runner, suggested we try an Olympics since it's so topical and the
residents thought it was a brilliant idea.

'We've tried to make it as official as possible and if this goes well we're
hoping to take on other privately-run Bupa homes across the city.'

Resident Joyce Bennett said: 'I used to play bowls for Warwickshire County and I
loved tennis and hockey at school, so I'm delighted at the chance to play a bit
of sport.

'We're all really enjoying it.'

Home manager Peta Mandleberg added: 'It gives residents a chance to get involved
in something which hopefully will lead to outings and events at other Bupa
homes.'

The Edgbaston Road care home, which opened five years ago, currently has 60
residents whose ages range from 18 to 96.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPORTING CHANCE: Joyce Bennett makes the most of the 'Olympics' at;
Amberley Court, Edgbaston

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              473 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Washington)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 28, 2016 Thursday

Hospital change limits contraceptive procedure

BYLINE: Sheila Hagar, Walla Walla Union-Bulletin, Wash.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 724 words


April 28--When Walla Walla General Hospital closes its birth center on June 30,
it will leave more than one gap in community health care.

In addition to the loss of three WWGH obstetricians and one less location to
have a baby, women wanting tubal ligations immediately after delivering a baby
will have limited options.

The remaining birthing center in Walla Walla, at Providence St. Mary Medical
Center, does not offer postpartum tubal ligations upon patient demand due to the
Catholic hospital system's religious directives regarding contraception.

Postpartum tubal ligations have been endorsed by the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists as one of the best methods of birth control.

Data from January to June of 2015 shows WWGH doctors performed 13 postpartum
tubal ligations, also referred to as having one's "tubes tied." A total of 18
tubal ligations, postpartum or later on, were done in that time span, said WWGH
spokeswoman Amy Alderman.

The hospital will still do the surgical procedure, but not in the "one stop"
process it has been offering, she added.

Walla Walla Clinic also offers tubal ligations at its outpatient surgery center,
said chief executive Kevin Michelson.

Higher-risk patients have historically been sent to WWGH for the procedure and
that option will continue. But obstetricians there prefer to wait six to eight
weeks after delivery to perform a tubal ligation to reduce the risk of
hemorrhaging and increase the likelihood of success, he added.

Although the Clinic's obstetricians used to offer patients the convenience of
having the 30-minute operation done in the hospital following a birth, "medical
evidence indicates a higher failure rate for tubal ligations performed
immediately after delivery," Michelson said, adding that the Clinic's position
is that "postpartum" can indicate a time beyond delivery.

The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, however, takes a
different stand.

"Postpartum tubal sterilization is one of the safest and most effective methods
of contraception," said ACOG spokeswoman Kate Conners.

The surgery is performed after 10 percent of all hospital deliveries,
particularly among women with lower levels of income and education, black and
Hispanic women and those with government health insurance or no insurance at
all, Conners said, citing a 2012 ACOG committee report that was renewed in 2014.

Women who wanted a tubal ligation but did not get one have a repeat pregnancy of
nearly 50 percent within the following year, the report said.

"Given the consequences of a missed procedure and the limited time frame in
which it may be performed, postpartum sterilization should be considered an
urgent surgical procedure," the authors wrote.

"It's easier to do postpartum tubal ligations than in a separate visit," Connors
said, pointing out no matter the delivery method, a sterilization done at that
time is less invasive and technical.

"For all these various reasons, we support it, " she said.

Michelson said that between the city's two hospitals and the Clinic's surgery
center, the Clinic's obstetricians do approximately 60 such procedures a year.

"In some cases, it may be best for the patient to have the procedure performed
at the time of caesarean delivery. St. Mary has been accommodating when such a
need has arisen in the past," Michelson said.

Providence St. Mary Medical Center said in a statement that doctors acting as
providers at St. Mary are expected to follow the hospital's ethical and
religious directives, as well as sound medical practice.

"These situations and the best course of treatment are assessed on a
case-by-case basis," St. Mary spokeswoman Kathleen Obenland stated.

Colleen Wadden, spokeswoman for St. Mary's parent group, Providence Health &
Services in Renton, Wash., said in an email today there are medical instances
where postpartum and other tubal ligations are performed at St. Mary.

She provided no further clarification on the hospital system's ethical and
religious directives. Data for how many of the sterilization procedures were
done in 2015 was not readily available, Wadden said.

Sheila Hagar can be reached at sheilahagar@wwub.com or 526-8322.

___ (c)2016 Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Walla Walla, Wash.) Visit Walla Walla
Union-Bulletin (Walla Walla, Wash.) at union-bulletin.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160428-UN-Hospital-change-limits-contraceptive-procedure-0428-20160428

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UN


                   Copyright 2016 Walla Walla Union-Bulletin


                              474 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 15, 1997, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CLINTON WANTS INSURERS TO IGNORE GENETIC TESTS;
MANY PEOPLE FEAR RESULTS WILL CANCEL COVERAGE, HE SAYS

BYLINE: Compiled From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 01A

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton called Monday for a law barring health insurance
companies from discriminating against otherwise healthy people on the basis of
their genetic backgrounds.

He said millions of families fear that the results of genetic testing wi ll
cause them to lose the health insurance they need to battle disease and illness.

"Americans should never have to choose between saving their health insurance and
taking a test that could save their life," Clinton said. Such discrimination "is
a life-threatening abuse of a potentially live-saving discovery."

"It's wrong when someone avoids taking a test that could save a life just
because they're so afraid the genetic information will be used against them, and
too many women today fear that that will happen when they decide to test or not
to test to see if they carry the gene for breast cancer," Clinton said.

Clinton's decision to push for heightened protection followed the
recommendations of a report by Donna Shalala, secretary of Health and Huma n
Services.

Shalala said the era of genetic testing has brought "great promise and ethical
dilemmas." More than 20 percent of people in families with genetic disorders
report that they or a family member have been denied health insurance, she said.

The report cautioned that the potential benefits of genetic testing may never be
realized if people refuse to take the tests out of fear the information may be
used against them when they apply for health insurance.

Expanding genetic research is giving doctors and scientists increasing ability
to predict who will develop various inherited diseases.

The legislation to bar use of such information to deny health insurance is
sponsored in the House by Rep. Louise Slaughter, D-N.Y., and has more than 135
co-sponsors. An identical Senate bill, filed by Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, is
backed by Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn., a heart surgeon.

"We all carry genetic mutations that may place us at risk for future disease -
therefore we are all at risk for discrimination," Frist said. "Only with these
measures can we ensure that knowledge about our genetic heritage will be used to
improve our health and not force us to hide in fear that this information will
cause us harm."

The White House said Clinton's legislation would build on the bill by:

* Specifying that genetic information cannot be disclosed to insurers, employers
or others regulated by state insurance laws.

* Giving the secretary of Health and Human Services authority to define other
situations - such as medical research - in which it is proper to allow genetic
information to be disclosed.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              475 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                             May 13, 2017 Saturday

ADDRESS FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS

BYLINE: Dr Peter Chan Teck Hock; Dr Raj Kumar Maharajah; The Executive Council
Of The Medical Practitioners Coalition Association Malaysia

SECTION: Letters; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 809 words


THE Medical Practitioners Coalition Association of Malaysia (MPCAM) is happy to
note that the Malaysian Medical Council has, at its most recent meeting,
directed its Ethics Committee to deliberate the issue on MCOs (managed care
organisations) and TPAs (third party administrator), which made headlines
recently.

Incidentally, the Health Ministry has taken the lead to solve this impasse by
meeting MPCAM and other doctors' associations last week.

The MPCAM has been vociferous on this issue on numerous occasions, where we have
highlighted feedback from members regarding MCOs or TPAs, entering into
contracts with doctors, where the doctor would commit to pay a fee for each
patient referred by the TPA.

Managed care has been a feature of our healthcare landscape for about 22 years
now. They serve to provide intermediary services to various stakeholders, such
as insurers, corporations, healthcare providers and patients.

Initially, these dealings were sporadic in nature. However, for more than a
decade now, it has become the norm and is now an integral part of healthcare.

The time has come for MMC to review the Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines,
which addresses fee-sharing between doctors, to also address fee-sharing between
doctors and TPAs.

The guidelines must address the issue of financial arrangements in managed care,
which may lead to a compromise in the care of the patient. With the MMC Council
said to meet next week to deliberate this issue among others, we recommend the
Ethics Committee of the MMC and its councillors zero in on the following issues
to safeguard the rakyat and to guide doctors.

INCONSISTENT EXPECTATIONS OF THE PATIENT

Patients seeking treatment from companies usually have higher expectations of
their medical benefits than what the managed care system allows for. Most of the
time, patients do not know the limitations of the doctor, as dictated by the
employer or by the MCO/TPAs. There ought to be legislation to make it compulsory
to disclose to policyholders and employers any financial impositions made on the
doctor. This will avoid unnecessary misunderstandings when one seeks treatment.

KICKBACKS AND FEE-SPLITTING MASKED AS ADMINISTRATIVE FEES

Some schemes impose arbitrary administrative fees ranging from 10 per cent to
more than 15 per cent of the total billing for a patient, which, on closer
examination, appears to indicate that most often, the higher the claim, the
higher the arbitrarily imposed administration fee.

There are others who take a fee per patient seen per day, and more recently, a
form of inducement to be appointed to be a panel doctor of the MCO, a one-off
commission fee of between RM2,500 and RM5000 (excluding a yearly renewal fee).
With administration fees, cheque deposition fees, transaction fees, annual fees,
commission for appointment fees and terminal fees, what else is in store?

LIMITATIONS ON THE DOCTOR

Primary care medical service providers are paid paltry consultation fees, with
the least being RM15 (before the administrative fee is deducted) and we can be
imposed unreasonable limits on medicines, investigations and procedures.

We have to juggle between giving the best to the patient, rising cost of
medicine and overheads and to do all that within a limit imposed and also, very
much delayed payments.

INCENTIVE FOR CUTTING COST

Different managed care schemes pose different challenges. In general practice
for example, certain schemes provide a fixed remuneration of, say, RM40 per
patient visit, inclusive of cost of medication and consultation. Reimbursement
for medicines and investigations is sometimes pegged at such a ridiculously low
price that it can even be below their cost to the clinic in some instances.

PATIENT HAS NO CHOICE, LOSS OF CONTINUITY OF CARE

TPAs determine which hospital/clinic a consumer would be able to go to by only
appointing certain clinics as panels. Hence, if the employer decides to appoint
a MCO/TPA that is not the regular doctor of a patient, the patient loses out on
his choice of doctor or hospital/clinic. This fundamental right of the patient
is being compromised.

BEGGING FOR PAYMENT

Reimbursement can take place anywhere from three to 12 months after the doctor
has seen the patient. Some MCOs/TPAs pay when prompted, while others others
"inadvertently" miss a payment or two in between. The doctor has an arduous task
auditing and tracing pending payments and in extreme cases, beg for payment.

These business practices appear to demonstrate a lack of respect for the medical
profession.

The Health Ministry and MMC should consider legislative changes to truly guide
doctors and safeguard patients.

An urgent regulation on MCOs/TPAs from Health Ministry is inevitable and
critical.

DR PETER CHAN TECK HOCK, DR RAJ KUMAR MAHARAJAH AND The Executive Council Of The
Medical Practitioners Coalition Association Malaysia

Kuala Lumpur

( END )

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              476 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             June 27 1989, Tuesday

TSB turns green with naturalist

BYLINE: PAUL DURMAN, City Reporter

SECTION: Business and City ; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 301 words


WITH the help of naturalist David Bellamy, TSB is using the public's increased
interest in green issues to launch an environmental unit trust.

An environmental trust is a version of the now familiar ethical unit trusts by
which companies are avoided because of their involvement with countries such as
South Africa or products like tobacco. Investments are selected because of their
caring approach.


Although there are already three other environmental trusts, TSB believes it can
build a dominant market share by branding it The Environmental Trust.

Mr Bellamy will chair the committee which will vet investments. Shares will be
screened by the Conservation Foundation, which Mr Bellamy founded to promote
closer links between business and environmental organisations.

Charges will be 6 per cent initial, 1.5 per cent annual.

The Co-operative Bank is also seeking to tap into the ethical boom. It is today
launching a savings account paying 1.5 per cent interest to Industrial Common
Ownership Finance, which provides loans and advice to workers' co-operatives
whose businesses meet ICOF's ethical charter.

Meanwhile, Kleinwort Benson yesterday launched a unit trust the income from
which will pay premiums for private medical insurance.

David Glasgow, managing director of Kleinwort Benson Unit Trusts, says the
Kleinwort-PPP income trust will enable individuals to benefit from the same
cheap rates of medical insurance as are available to members of company schemes.

The medical insurance will be provided by Private Patients Plan. Kleinwort
Benson estimates a gross yield of 4.5 per cent which means income from an
investment of pounds 13,750 will provide someone aged 30 with private medical
insurance until he reaches 65 years old.

Business and City Page 23

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd


                              477 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright (c) 1998 Journal of Legislation
                             Journal of Legislation

                                      1998

                                24 J. Legis. 237

LENGTH: 6814 words

CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM SYMPOSIUM: Note: Genetic Discrimination in Health
Insurance

NAME:  Lynn E. Egan *

BIO:



   * B.A., Political Science, Northwestern University, 1996; J.D., Candidate,
Notre Dame Law School, 1999. This Note is dedicated to my mother, Carol, and in
loving memory of my father, James.

 TEXT:
 [*237]

    I. INTRODUCTION

    Why should we allow someone to benefit from their genetic endowment to the
detriment of those less fortunate than themselves? Persons with detrimentally
aberrant genomes should not be subject to medical insurance discrimination made
possible by genetic research funded by the public. Such research is conducted
for the purpose of advancing science and human well being, not the perfection of
insurance underwriting. Why should we sacrifice the potential medically
beneficial fruits of society's investments in genetic research so that private
insurance companies, which were profitable before humanity had the means to
genetically predict an individual's medical future, might offer the lowest
possible insurance rates to a handful of genetically "superior" individuals?

    In the late 1980's, biology and technology had advanced to the point where
genetic maps could be calculated.  n1 With maps of the human genome, scientists
could begin to decipher which genes, when altered, resulted in specific diseases
present in the human population. Scientists realized that if the source and
process of genetic diseases could be discerned, appropriate therapies for the
afflicted might be developed, freeing afflicted individuals from the
consequences of their conditions, and allowing them to return as productive,
healthy members of society.

    Recognizing the potential benefits of a complete map of the human genome, an
international team of more than one hundred scientists in government, university
and commercial laboratories have labored collectively in an effort termed the
Human Genome Project.  n2 To accomplish its share of the work needed, in 1989
the United States established the National Center for Human Genome Research
(NCHGR) under the National Institutes of Health, which was renamed the National
Human Genome Research Institute in 1997.  n3 The NCHGR funded research
facilities throughout the country and established the Division of Intramural
Research to apply genetic findings toward diagnosis and treatment of genetic
diseases and acquired genetic disorders.  n4

    So far, disorders and diseases which can be predicted or identified with
genetic tests have been relatively rare.  n5 The advent of tests for some
genetic forms of breast  [*238]  and colon cancer, combined with the continued
development of other genetic tests by the Human Genome Project, however, means
that genetic information's use, or misuse, will affect greater numbers of
individuals as genetic knowledge expands.

    Debates have raged over who should have use of information gleaned from our
genes by genetic research which will impact our potential medical fates. Should
the inescapable, and now soon to be unconcealable, content of our genes be a
private matter confined to the realm of a doctor-patient relationship, or should
such information be publicly accessible to entities like health insurers for use
in medical underwriting?

    Access to the results of genetic testing would provide insurance companies
with the information required to form three new categories of individuals in
their underwriting schemes. One category would consist of asymptomatic
individuals who stand a substantial probability of acquiring adult-onset
disabilities from conditions like Huntington's disease, myotonic dystrophy, and
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.  n6 A second category would also consist of
asymptomatic individuals, but they would merely be predisposed, not certain, to
develop diseases like heart disease, diabetes, some cancers, and mental
disorders.  n7 The third new category of potential insurees would consist of
those who would never themselves become ill, but who are carriers of genes that
could affect the health of any children they might have.  n8

    The answer to who will pay what for whom in the area of health care must
address how each of these categories of individuals' interests weigh against the
interests of insurers and the rest of society. The question of who will pay has
been addressed under state and federal law, as well as in political and ethical
theory. To date, however, no legislation seems to have satisfactorily balanced
the interests of individuals, economics and ethics.   [*239]

    This Note focuses on the justice of allowing genetic discrimination by
medical insurers. It will provide a brief overview of some philosophical
frameworks from which the issue of genetic discrimination can be studied before
it explains why such discrimination should not be allowed. Legislative attempts
to protect individuals from genetic discrimination in past acts and present
bills will then be reviewed to demonstrate their inadequacies. Finally, it will
conclude with some suggestions of legislation which would provide more
meaningful protection against genetic discrimination than recent acts and bills
have afforded.

    II. PHILOSOPHICAL FRAMEWORKS

    It has been generally held that only two ethical theories provide plausible
means to systematically arrive at a moral judgement in any given circumstance.
n9 These two theories are Utilitarianism and Rawls' Theory of Justice.

    Utilitarianism is an eighteenth century tradition best represented by the
writings of two English philosophers, Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill.  n10
The classical form of Utilitarianism is a doctrine of hedonism, where action is
deemed to be ethical if it tends to promote greater happiness in society than
any alternative actions will.  n11 Newer forms of the doctrine include
economically based Preference Utilitarianism which regards anything of economic
value as a rational goal one can ethically seek, and Negative Utilitarianism
which regards behavior that avoids disutility as ethical.  n12

    The main argument against the use of any form of Utilitarianism as an
ethical doctrine is its compatibility with a practice of sacrificing individuals
so long as more members of society would benefit from such an act than suffer.
n13 As Mill himself admitted, the inability to provide desirable results with
regard to cherished concepts like justice was Utilitarianism's greatest failure.
n14

    In 1971, John Rawls' Theory of Justice was enthusiastically welcomed as an
ethical theory that was just as plausible, systematic, and universally
applicable as Utilitarianism, and yet adequately accounted for values such as
justice.  n15 Rather than the hedonistic goal of the greatest happiness for the
greatest number, Rawls asserted that ethical decisions within a society ought to
be based upon principles its individual members would have agreed upon if they
did not know what their particular position in society would be.  n16 Rawls
referred to this state as behind a veil of ignorance.

    From behind the veil of ignorance, Rawls claimed individuals would not seek
to maximize utility, but instead would seek to provide safeguards against too
severe of an existence. He predicted that they would provide for the maximum
amount of personal liberty that could coexist with a distribution of wealth
which would make the least well-off members of society as well-off as possible.
n17  [*240]

    However, Rawls did not believe that his theory advocated socialism. This is
evident in "that if we accept certain assumptions about the effect of incentives
and the benefits that may flow to all from the productive labours of the most
talented members of society, the maximin principle could allow considerable
inequality."  n18

    Rawls' Theory of Justice, rather than variants of Utilitarianism, is the
more appropriate philosophical framework from which to consider the ethical
nature of allowing health insurance discrimination through the use of genetic
information in our society. Since the 1935 passage of the Social Security Act
and the advent of the welfare state,  n19 our society has not had a utilitarian
orientation. Rather, our society claims to seek liberty and justice for all,
goals which can only be supported with Rawls' theories.

    III. WHY GENETIC DISCRIMINATION SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED

    Prior to the advent of predictive genetic capabilities, created in part by
the efforts of the Human Genome Project and other genetic research, the manner
in which medical insurers handled treatments for genetic diseases mirrored the
veil of ignorance envisioned in Rawls' Theory of Justice. No one had any means
of ensuring that they, or their offspring, would not fall victim to one of the
conditions or diseases we now know are the result of deleterious genetic
mutations. Medical care for these conditions was not exempted from coverage by
insurance policies at that time; nor, absent knowledge as to one's risks of
falling victim to such a disease, was it likely that people would clamor for
such exemption. Following the advent of predictive genetic technology, armed
with the ability to know that they will not be struck with genetic based disease
X, some individuals seek to avoid paying the price of insuring those, who
technology can now discern will or might suffer the ravages of genetic diseases.
n20

    Indeed, "some insurers argue that it is actuarially unfair, and therefore
morally unfair, to those at low medical risk when insurers do not exclude those
at high risk from insurance pools."  n21 With Rawls' veil of ignorance lifted,
many individuals, like the health insurance companies, claim that they should be
allowed to benefit from the good fortune of their genetic endowment, much as an
individual is allowed to benefit from being smarter than another, more athletic
than another, etc.

    But, what frequently goes unrecognized by proponents of such arguments is
that society already limits the use of some forms of advantage with which those
individuals are born. For example, society does not recognize any legitimate
advantages or disad  [*241]  vantages in the distribution of opportunities and
rights on the basis of sex or race despite the market advantages and
disadvantages people frequently infer to them.

    Why should we allow some to benefit from their genetic endowment any more
than we permit them to benefit from having been born black or white, male or
female? All of these traits are obtained simply by the luck of the draw, require
no cultivation to develop and maintain, and merit no special recognition or
privileges. Intelligence or sports ability, which benefit their possessors,
require some degree of effort or cultivation on the part of the individual
gifted with them. Genetics, race, and sex do not merit the recognition we allow
intelligence, sports ability, and other talents in determining the legitimate
assets an individual may use in furthering their interests. "Even among those
philosophers who want to treat talents and skills as individual assets, only the
strictest libertarians treat health status differences merely as 'unfortunate'
variations and believe that there is no social obligation to correct for the
relative advantages and disadvantages caused by disease or disability."  n22

    Clearly it is unethical for health insurers to discriminate based upon the
genetic status of its clients. Various governmental entities have also come to
this conclusion as well.

    IV. WHY WE NEED LEGISLATIVE TREATMENT OF GENETICS-BASED MEDICAL INSURANCE
DISCRIMINATION

    In 1993, Dr. Paul Billings  n23 had already found ninety-three cases of
so-called genetic health insurance discrimination, even though scientists had
only identified two percent of the human genome by this time.  n24 By 1994,
horror stories had seeped into popular news sources such as the L.A. Times story
about an entire New Hampshire family who lost their health insurance because
their eight-year-old was diagnosed with the genetic disorder called Fragile X
Syndrome,  n25 despite the fact that the remaining members of the family were
unaffected by the disease. In desperation, the family contacted the "state's
assistant insurance commissioner, a disability rights lawyer and a U.S. Senator
. . . all of whom said it was the insurers' right" to cancel their coverage.
n26 This family did not need anyone to tell them that genetic information can
adversely affect not only the afflicted individual, but can also be used to
prevent unaffected parents, siblings, cousins, and future offspring from
acquiring reasonable health insurance.

    The potential for genetic discrimination by health insurance companies was
recognized as early as May 10, 1993, by the NCHGR. The NCHGR suggested a need
for health insurers to place a "moratorium on the use of genetic tests in
underwriting until a program of universal basic health services is in place."
n27 The NCHGR believed at that time that a combination of self-regulation and
federal legislation would resolve  [*242]  unethical discrimination in the
health insurance industry resulting from advances in genetic knowledge through
the Human Genome Project. Unfortunately, it was evident by stories like that
carried in the L.A. Times that self-regulation by the insurance industry was
already insufficient to protect insurees from discrimination in 1994.

    This lack of protection for genetically defective individuals remained an
unresolved problem in 1997. During this span of time, state and federal
legislatures have attempted to introduce legislation which would prevent
discrimination against the genetically flawed by insurance companies, but to
date none of the enacted legislation seems to have successfully ended genetic
discrimination.

    V. STATE LEGISLATION ENACTED TO PREVENT GENETIC DISCRIMINATION

    By 1994, Ohio and Wisconsin already had, and California and New York were
drafting, laws to prohibit insurers from using genetic information to deny
individuals health insurance coverage.  n28 The Wisconsin law,  n29 for example,
prohibited insurers from: (a) requiring or requesting an individual or family
member to obtain a genetic test; (b) requiring or requesting directly or
indirectly into the results of a genetic test; (c) conditioning the provision of
insurance coverage or benefits on genetic testing; or (d) considering genetic
testing in the determination of rates or any other aspect of insurance coverage
or health care benefits provided to an individual whether an individual or a
member of the individual's family has obtained a genetic test or what the
results of the test, if obtained by the individual or a member of the
individual's family, were.  n30

    Wisconsin's legislation failed to state how these regulations would be
policed, or how the enforcement would be funded. Enacted state laws "focused
narrowly on genetic tests, rather than more broadly on genetic information
generated by family history, physical examination or the medical record."  n31
Although state laws can and do prohibit using "the results of a chemical test of
DNA or the protein product of a gene," insurers "may still use other
physical/physiological (phenotype) indicators, patterns of inheritance of
genetic characteristics, or even a request for genetic testing as the basis for
discrimination."  n32 These problems, however, cannot be solved merely by
expansively defining genetic information in state legislation due to the federal
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) laws.

    While concerning an employee with AIDS, not a genetic disease, McGann v. H &
H Music Co.  n33 demonstrated "how state based prohibitions on genetic
underwriting will be undermined."  n34 After McGann had made his first claims
under his employer's  [*243]  health insurance plan, the employer switched its
commercial insurer to a self-insured plan.  n35 The employer then capped
coverage under this new plan for AIDS treatment at five thousand dollars, but
allowed a one million dollar maximum for all other claims for medical care. The
Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals declared that it was an:

    employer's right to change its self-insured benefit plan in response to
diseases or expenses incurred by a single employee. [footnote omitted] Of
course, an employer might do the same thing for any other disease. No doubt it
would be harder for an employer to cap benefits for relatively common diseases
that afflict many employees and dependents, such as cancer or heart disease.
But, like AIDS, genetic diseases tend to be less common and thus easier and more
likely targets for employers looking for ways to cut the costs of their fringe
benefits.  n36

    Thus, according to McGann, "under the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act (ERISA), employers who self-insure are exempt from state insurance
regulations (both statutory and regulatory)."  n37 Since a "large proportion of
the population receives health benefits from self-funded plans not subject to
state insurance laws,"  n38 protections against discrimination based on state
legislation are unenforceable to constitute a solution to problems with genetic
discrimination due to ERISA. Insurers, in concert with employers, in an attempt
to limit their expenses in either premiums or disbursements, could and, no doubt
would, in order to remain competitive, use ERISA to step around any state
legislation regulating insurance use of genetic information.

    VI. CONGRESSIONAL ACTS USED TO LIMIT GENETIC DISCRIMINATION

    The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990  n39 (ADA) was not enacted with
the specific intent of preventing health insurance discrimination. It was
created in part to prevent a phenomenon referred to as job-lock,  n40 which
resulted in the onset of medically expensive disabilities. The ability to
diagnosis latent genetic diseases resulted in a source of job-lock, which while
not considered upon the ADA's enactment, created a need to expand the breadth of
antidiscriminatory protection, which the ADA provided to employees. Some
proponents of the ADA believed that this legislation would relieve workers from
being locked to their jobs because of dependence upon a health insurance policy
without which they could not financially survive when they or a dependent became
disabled. Unfortunately, this legislation was not far-reaching enough to provide
the relief its proponents sought.

    The first problem with using ADA to combat genetic discrimination in
obtaining employment with sufficient health insurance is that it does not apply
to all employers. Beginning in July 1992, public and private sector employers of
twenty-five or more employees were forbidden to discriminate based upon
disabilities of potential employ  [*244]  ees.  n41 On July 26, 1995, these
restrictions extended to all employers with fifteen or more employees. However,
vast numbers of individuals working for small employers are exempted from
coverage by the ADA's protections.

    Furthermore, complaints under the ADA against limitations of fringe benefits
like health insurance, are also similar to those of state legislation combating
health insurance discrimination when suits were brought against companies using
self-insured plans. As was seen in McGann, ERISA would once again be used to
protect an employer's right to limit coverage based on inordinate medical
expenses incurred by a few individuals who would endanger the fiscal solvency of
the company, if they were to be included in that company's self-funded insurance
plan.

    The ADA is too simplistic in its scope to sufficiently protect people from
health insurance discrimination by health insurers. Since the ADA addresses only
employer/employee relations, it seemed to only address prevention of disability
discrimination by employers. It did not seem to stop insurance companies from
using the infamous preexisting condition clauses in health insurance policies.
Sufferers of genetic defects or workers whose dependents have genetic defects
are still locked to the jobs they had when they, or their dependents were first
diagnosed with a costly or potentially financially devastating disease or
disability.

    Attempts were made to reform the ADA regulations of insurance companies, but
these attempts have been minimally effective. "Some people have argued that the
insurance company is a public entity and thus should be covered under the full
provisions" of the ADA, "but there is other language in the ADA that says that
insurance practices which conform to state principles--and most of the state
principles talk about actuarial fairness--would be exempted on that basis."  n42

    At first glance this backdoor out of the ADA's regulatory powers over
insurance companies might appear to be poor drafting, but it was actually a
necessary evil. The logic behind such a provision in the ADA is that "if there's
an actuarial basis for [insurance discrimination], it's okay. All insurance is
discrimination of one sort or another. The question is, is it legal or not?"
n43 Thus, if the discrimination falls within actuarial fairness as defined under
state law, it is not actionable under the ADA, whether ethical or not.

    VII. CONGRESSIONAL BILLS INTENDED TO END GENETIC DISCRIMINATION

    The ADA's failure to prevent genetic discrimination as a result of ERISA's
protections and the ADA's own actuarial fairness clause has led to the
introduction of many bills in Congress. Some of the most recent congressional
bills aimed at ceasing genetic discrimination by health insurers included: the
Genetic Information Health Insurance Nondiscrimination Act of 1997  n44 (GIHINA)
sponsored by Representative Gerald B. Solomon (R-NY), the Genetic Privacy and
Nondiscrimination Act of 1997  n45 (GPNA) sponsored by Representative Clifford
B. Stearns (R-FL), the Genetic Informa  [*245]  tion Nondiscrimination in Health
Insurance Act of 1997  n46 (GINHIA) sponsored by Senator Olympia J. Snowe
(R-ME), and the Genetic Confidentiality and Nondiscrimination Act of 1997  n47
(GCNA) sponsored by Senator Pete V. Domenici (R-NM). Each of these bills
insightfully recognized elements that will need to be enacted into law if an end
to genetic discrimination in the health insurance industry is to be obtained.

    The greatest insight of the GIHINA was recognizing the need to forbid health
insurance discrimination based upon requested or received genetic information or
genetic test results. This provision is key toward stopping genetic
discrimination in health insurance, because most information used by insurance
companies in their medical underwriting is not surreptitiously obtained in
violation of a person's privacy. Rather, it is gained through the answering of
questions posed, and the release of medical records by the potential insuree to
the insurance company in the insurance application, along with permission to
obtain the potential insuree's record from the Medical Information Bureau (MIB).

    The MIB "is an insurance industry-run data bank, accessible to nearly 800
member companies in the United States and Canada."  n48 The member insurance
companies input any relevant data they obtain from an individual, and all
members have access to the information. As a result, when they seek health
insurance, consumers find themselves facing an omniscient entity that knows, at
minimum, all medical procedures and tests ever performed on them and paid for by
a health insurer.

    Complete cooperation on the part of the applicants in releasing their MIB
records, and answering the applications' medical history questions, is induced
by the inclusion of full disclosure guarantee clauses which render the
insurance, if granted, invalid in the event that the applicants were not fully
forthcoming in disclosures on their applications.

    The release of medical records will often reveal what the applicants either
do not consciously know or will not acknowledge about their genetic endowment.
The release often includes such diverse sources as "physicians, other medical
practitioners, hospitals, clinics, other medical facilities, insurance
companies, and sometimes employers. . . . [and at times any] organization,
institution, or person that has any records or knowledge"  n49 of the
applicants' health.

    Privacy is not technically violated by this process because the applicants
sign away their rights. Arguments that privacy legislation could at least
guarantee the rights of applicants to be informed as to how this information
could potentially be used against them would be an empty right, given that there
would be few or no other options than the release of medical records and medical
histories if one desired to obtain health insurance. No competitive private
market exists within the insurance industry because what the potential consumer
actually faces is a "monopolist seller in the sense that insurers can choose
their customers, and virtually all insurers have access to the same information
about a potential customer,"  n50 thanks to the MIB.

    Laws limiting an insurer's ability to perform genetic tests, or obtain
results of tests which were performed on those seeking health insurance, are
irrelevant to the  [*246]  accessibility of health coverage because these
companies "do and will have virtually unlimited access to the information from
genetic tests performed in the medical sphere."  n51 Provisions in the GIHINA,
n52 forbidding discrimination based upon the request or receipt of genetic
information or test results, are therefore necessary if further progress is to
be made in combating genetic discrimination in health insurance.

    The greatest contribution of the GPNA was its forward-looking provision
directing the National Bioethics Advisory Commission to report to Congress its
recommendations on providing protection for collecting, storing, and using
genetic samples and data.  n53 Provision like these will help ensure that future
research on the Human Genome Project will not be precluded or unduly burdened by
congressional efforts to prevent injuries from the data we have already
extrapolated from our genes.

    The GINHIA reminds us that it is not enough to merely regulate the insurance
industry to end genetic discrimination. Regulation is usually only effective if
it is coupled with sufficient punishment to induce compliance by the regulated
industry. This Act suggests providing for compensatory, consequential, and
punitive damages for violations of suggested amendments to ERISA, the Public
Health Service Act, Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, or the Internal
Revenue Code, in order to eradicate genetic discrimination by the health
insurance industry.  n54

    The GCNA not only seeks to protect against unconsented disclosure of genetic
information, but also regulates redisclosure of information which may have
originally been legitimately received.  n55 Such provisions should help to
prevent the continued existence of the MIB which places the consumer of health
insurance at a disadvantage when dealing with a health insurance company.

    VIII. CONCLUSION

    Genetic disease is not the fault of the individuals who suffer under its
ailment. Prior to the identification of strange disorders and ailments which are
being the result of genetic defect, many victims might have found coverage for
their medical treatment from their ordinary health care coverage through an
insurance company or their employer.

    As our medical knowledge grew, thanks in part to government-funded research
on genetics, additional legislation to protect individuals from high-rate
discrimination, or the inability to gain medical insurance at all, was needed
due to our newfound knowledge regarding the origins of such ailments. As we
acquired more knowledge regarding inheritable traits, the list of individuals
who needed protection also grew because the insurance industry actively avoided
liability in covering afflicted individuals. While it may be natural for
insurance companies to avoid covering individuals with genetic disease, they
cannot ethically be allowed to shirk from such serious health policy issues.

    The ADA is inadequate in its protection of people with genetic diseases and
disorders, because by definition the insurance industry must use some degree of
discrimination if they are to be allowed to use the underwriting techniques on
which they  [*247]  were originally founded as a means of risk management for
their consumers. The reason that some might find such an argument distasteful is
that many individuals in our society today do not deem health insurance to be a
means of risk management, but rather a means of obtaining the bodily integrity
to make the most of their lives and participate equally within society. The ADA
serves many purposes successfully, but protecting the genetically defective from
an inability to gain health insurance is not one of them.

    Privacy laws in theory would be a good idea as well to protect society from
genetic discrimination by health insurers. People should be informed that
insurance companies are not like a collection of individual agents competitively
seeking business as a highly organized institution seeking collective protection
of their respective competitive edges. But privacy laws are insufficient
protection as well, since mere rights can easily be contracted away when one is
not as powerful or worldly as the entity with which one contracts.

    If we are to end genetic discrimination without foreclosing future progress
in genetic research, we must enact a bill which encompasses at least all of the
solutions outlined in the four bills cited. This new bill includes forbidding
the use of any genetic information, or information from which genetic
conclusions could be formulated, from being used in medical underwriting,
regardless of its being obtained upon request or mere innocent receipt. We also
must provide for punishments within such a bill to induce compliance with its
provisions. We will have to ensure at the same time, however, that future
genetic research will not be precluded or unduly restricted by the protections
we grant individuals' genetic endowments. Finally, we must find a means to
prevent the dissemination of genetic information received legitimately by one
entity to others who were not originally authorized to receive such data. Only
then will we have solved the vexing phenomenon of genetic discrimination.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Insurance LawIndustry RegulationUnfair Business PracticesDiscriminationPublic
Health & Welfare LawSocial ServicesDisabled & Elderly PersonsAdvocacy &
ProtectionDiscriminationAmericans With Disabilities ActWorkers' Compensation &
SSDICompensabilityCourse of EmploymentGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Genetic linkage maps give the position of genes on a chromosome. The
location of each individual gene is referred to as a loci. The distance between
loci determine the likelihood or possibility of two different genes being
inherited together (referred to as linked genes) or separately following
cross-over of the inherited chromosomes of each parent.




n2  National Human Genome Research Institute (visited Jan. 4, 1998)
<http://www.aamc.org/research/adhocgr/ncgr.htm>.




n3  Id.




n4  Id.




n5  See Sheryl Stolberg, Insurance Falls Prey To Genetic Bias; The DNA
Revolution is a Blessing and a Curse. It Tells Some the Potential for Disease,
but Allows Companies to Deny Coverage. Some Fear This Is Only the Beginning of a
Huge Dilemma., L.A. Times Home Edition, Mar. 27, 1994, at A1: Column 1; Metro
Desk (stating that the following genetic disorders and diseases can currently be
genetically tested for: 1. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's
disease)-a degenerative disease of the nervous system, 2. Deta-thalassemia which
is prevalent in the Mediterranean, the Middle East and Southeast Asia-causes a
breakup of the red blood cells, leading to anemia, spleen enlargement and
sometimes abnormal growth of bones (fatal in early childhood if left untreated),
3. Charcot MarieTooth disease-causes abnormalities in the feet and hands, 4.
Cystic Fibrosis-the most common lethal genetic defect, causing chronic lung
infections and an inability to absorb fats and other nutrients, 5. Duchenne
Muscular Dystrophy-the major form of muscular dystrophy in children. It causes
progressive degeneration of the muscle fibers, 6. Fragile X Syndrome-a
chromosomal disorder causing mental impairment, ranging from subtle learning
disabilities to severe retardation and autism. Symptoms are generally more
pronounced in boys, 7. Gaucher's disease-a disorder common to Ashkenazi Jews.
The most severe form appears in infancy, causing central nervous system
impairment and death within the first year, 8. Huntington's disease-a
degenerative brain disorder, 9. Marfan Syndrome-a disease of the connective
tissue that often strikes athletes, 10. Myotonic Dystrophy-Most common form of
muscular dystrophy in adults. 11. Retinoblastoma-an inherited form of eye tumors
in children. 12. Tay-Sachs disease-a brain disorder common among Ashkenazi Jews
which results in death during early childhood).




n6  Adrienne Asch, Genetics and Employment, More Disability Discrimination, in
The Human Genome Project and the Future of Health Care 158, 161 (Thomas H.
Murray et al. eds., 1996).




n7  Id.




n8  Id. Genetic disorders such as hemophilia, Duchenne muscular dystrophy,
sickle cell anemia, cystic fibrosis and Tay Sachs require the inheritance of the
defective gene from both parents. Receipt of only one deleterious copy of the
gene makes one a "carrier" of the condition, unaffected by the condition but
capable of passing the disease on to offspring if one's mate is also a carrier
who also passes on the deleterious gene. Id.




n9  Ethics, 18 Encyclopedia Britannica 515 (15th ed. 1994).




n10  See generally Philosophical Schools and Doctrines-Western-Utilitarianism,
12 Encyclopedia Britannica 219 (15th ed. 1994).




n11  This classical form is referred to as Ideal Utilitarianism.




n12  See supra note 10.




n13  See supra note 9.




n14  See supra note 10.




n15  See supra note 9.




n16  See John Rawls, A Theory of Justice 136-142 (1971).




n17  This principle is Rawls' maximin principle in that the welfare of the
worst-off members of society would be maximized. See supra note 9.




n18  Id.




n19  The welfare state includes such innovations as aid to physically and
mentally handicapped individuals, unemployment benefits, and minimum-wage laws,
all of which are based on principles of justice, not utilitarianism.




n20  Insurance rates are set by a process referred to as underwriting.
Underwriting is the actuarial process of determining what expenses a given pool
of potential insurees will incur in medical expenses over the life of their
policy and setting a sufficiently high rate for medical insurance coverage to
ensure sufficient funds to cover expenses and still allow for a profit by the
insurance company. If one were able to guarantee that a given population would
not be subject to conditions which are expensive to treat medically, that group
could safely be offered lower rates than the identical population absent such
guarantees. Some genetically fit individuals claim that they should be allowed
to form insurance pools which exclude genetically defective individuals so that
they might reap the personal benefits of lowered insurance rates.




n21  Norman Daniels, The Human Genome Project and the Distribution of Scarce
Medical Resources, in The Human Genome Project and the Future of Health Care
173, 179 (Thomas H. Murray, et al. eds., 1996).




n22  Id. at 183.




n23  Dr. Billings is a clinical geneticist in Palo Alto, California.




n24  Interview by Greg Lefevre with the child of a Huntington's Patient, on Your
Money [CNN television broadcast, Jan. 23, 1993] (Jan. 23, 1993).




n25  Fragile X Syndrome is a genetic disorder which impairs an individual's
mental development, but is not considered a genetic disease. Rather it is
referred to as a developmental disorder.




n26  Stolberg, supra note 5, at 1.




n27  Health Insurers Should Impose "Moratorium" on Use of Genetic Tests in
Underwriting -Task Force, Blue Sheet (F-D-C Reports, Inc., Washington, D.C.),
May 12, 1993, available in LEXIS, Health Library, MEDJNL File.




n28  Stolberg, supra note 5, at 1.




n29  Wis. Stat. § 631.89 (1995).




n30  Wis. Stat. § 631.89(2)(a)-(d) (1995).




n31  Prepared Testimony of Karen H. Rothenberg J.D., M.P.A., Marjorie Cook
Professor of Law, Director Law & Health Care Program University of Maryland
School of Law, Before the Senate Comm. on Labor and Human Resources, 104th Cong.
(1996).




n32  Id.




n33  McGann v. H & H Music Co., 946 F.2d 401 (5th Cir. 1991) (giving ERISA
employers the right to change their self-insured benefit plans through ERISA).




n34  Deborah A. Stone, The Implications of the Human Genome Project for Access
to Health Insurance, in The Human Genome Project and the Future of Health Care
133, 149 (Thomas H. Murray et al. eds., 1996).




n35  Companies which self-insure their health care policies are those that only
bear the cost of any claims incurred as a result of an employee's or dependent's
medical expenses.




n36  Stone, supra note 34, at 148.




n37  Id. at 152.




n38  Rothenberg, supra note 31.




n39  Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. § 12101 (1995).




n40  Job-lock is the position an employee faces when the employee's medical
benefits, especially related to preexisting conditions coverage, does not
transfer to a subsequent employer's benefit plan. Consequently, the employee is
discouraged from seeking new employment for fear of losing these medical
benefits and is locked into her current job.




n41  Eric Randall, NYPER ADA Update, ADA-The First Five Years (Mar. 1995).




n42  Reginald Rhein, Federal Disability Law Bans Genetic Discrimination,
Biotechnology Newswatch, May 1, 1995, at 1.




n43  Id.




n44  H.R. 328, 105th Cong. (1997).




n45  H.R. 341, 105th Cong. (1997).




n46  S. 89, 105th Cong. (1997).




n47  S. 422, 105th Cong. (1997).




n48  Stone, supra note 34, at 143.




n49  Id. at 141.




n50  Id. at 143.




n51  Id. at 134-35.




n52  H.R. 328, 105th Cong. (1997).




n53  H.R. 341, 105th Cong. § 7 (1997).




n54  S. 89, 105th Cong. (1997).




n55  S. 422, 105th Cong. (1997).


                              478 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

               The Miami-Dade Association of Health Underwriters

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.miamidahu.org

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Miami-DAHU is based in Miami, FL and is a non-profit organization made up of
insurance professionals dedicated to serve the local health insurance community.
We are here to help advocate for our members and peers through effective
legistlation, ethical leadership and uphold the professional standards of the
industry.  We hold monthly meetings for all of our members and potential members
alike. Along with continuing education (CE) classes from distinguished
professionals, industry updates, and more, Miami-DAHU is helping to service the
health insurance needs of large and small employers as well as people seeking
individual health insurance coverage.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              479 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

Readers write

BYLINE: Joan Dillon, Atlanta Joe Orr, Alpharetta; For the Journal-Constitution

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 826 words


HEALTH CARE

Response to "Could be healthier, wealthier." Opinion, March 21

Cynthia Tucker is on to something when she says "a lot of that money is wasted"
related to health care. She cites the universal coverage of France and Germany
as examples of systems that cost less and produce "better outcomes." Watching
the Washington health care fiasco, one wonders if the true causes of the crisis
were actually addressed.

Maybe Tucker is talking about the missed opportunity to honestly discuss tort
reform related to doctors covering their backsides against lawsuits when she
mentions unnecessary medical tests and procedures. Perhaps it's the healthier
lifestyles of Canadians and Europeans and not their health care systems that
explain their better "outcomes." Americans may never know, since our
irresponsible Congress is on the verge of making a trillion-dollar prognosis
without ever truly diagnosing the disease. Kip Howard, Marietta

Land of the free is now home of the freeloader

The America I knew has died. Instead of the land of the free, we are the land of
the indebted. For each of you who has worked hard to get a good education, to
better yourself, and to provide a better life for your children, you can now
count on being penalized for your successes; your taxes will go up to about half
your income, and your incentive to work harder, and to tell your children they
can do anything they aspire to, will be gone.

Now, if you work hard, you can count on supporting a greater number of welfare
recipients. And when amnesty comes up, you can count on supporting a growing
number of illegal immigrants. This is a heartbreaking blow --- that America
could be devastated from within by people who have forgotten that this was once
the land of opportunity. God help us all.

Joan Dillon, Atlanta

Those who've suffered say, 'Thanks, America'

Our Founders created a republic to protect the minority from the tyranny of the
majority. It is the one and only "system" guaranteed in the Constitution. As our
nation debated health care reform, a minority voice was barely heard.

What we heard were the voices of those with ideological and policy arguments,
and the rants of those who benefit solely from political conflict. One had to
listen carefully to hear those without health insurance.

They included the man raising his hand in the back of the crowded room with a
question about caring for his wife; the woman holding her sick child; the high
school boy with really bad acne; the girl who needs a physical so she can try
out for the soccer team; the father whose heart is failing; and the mother who
suffers from debilitating migraines.

There are over 30 million of us. We are so different, we could only speak out
one voice at a time. On behalf of all those like me, thank you, America, for not
forgetting us. We sure could use the helping hand. THEODORE ASHER, Lilburn

Government agencies' track record not so good

Will Barack Obama's government-run health care be his legacy, like the
Department of Energy was Jimmy Carter's? Carter established that department to
stop our dependence on foreign oil. That department now has thousands of
employees and contractors, with a budget of billions a year --- and we now
import more than 50 percent of all oil consumed in the United States.

So why should we be so concerned about government-run agencies? Washington's
track record is not the greatest. Medicare is soon to be bankrupt, Social
Security is soon to be bankrupt, and the list goes on. Can we really afford
another government-run agency? I don't think so.

Joe Orr, Alpharetta

A few questions about health care overhaul

If this new health care bill is so great for all Americans, why are all the
members of Congress, who voted for it, not asking to be covered by it?

And if too many doctors start refusing Medicare patients because of low
payments, where will we have our choice of doctors? When I was forced to take
Medicare, my medical expenses went up and not down. By all indications, the same
will be true of this bill that has to have "fixes." ROBERT BARFIELD, Loganville

ETHICS

Politicians will never give up their loopholes

A person has to have a good, basic sense of humor to think that politicians will
write any ethics bill that would not contain loopholes ("Ethics reforms falling
short?" News, March 21). Who would expect these people to close off all of their
self-serving escape hatches? I particularly like the statement by lobbyist Rudy
Underwood: "We are professionals, and we do have some ethical guidance." Note he
specifies "some" before ethical guidance. I read that to be: "We are partially
guided ethically." ALLYANA ZIOLKO, Atlanta

ECONOMY

If jobs are Obama's No. 1 priority, where are they?

Mr. President: It is almost April, and you did promise to focus on jobs --- it
is your No. 1 priority for this year. As you got your wish, jamming health care
reform through, would you now keep your word, and focus on your No. 1 priority?
TAM NGUYEN, Duluth

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2010 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              480 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             October 7, 2011 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

YOUR VIEWS - LETTERS FROM OUR READERS OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 1188 words

DATELINE: 0


Legislature could help health insurance work for all Missourians

Thanks for the editorial "$15,073 ... and rising" (Oct. 4). I was particularly
struck by the sentence saying that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act "was a compromise bill that mollified the health insurance and drug
companies; until and unless those powerful lobbies are taken out of the
equation, health insurance costs will continue to rise until only the very
wealthy can afford them."

Although we still have the insurance companies in the equation, we can demand
transparency when dealing with them.

There are two issues before our state that can reduce the influence of the
insurers and provide that transparency. If Missouri establishes a competitive
marketplace or "health insurance exchange" as called for in the Affordable Care
Act, individuals and small businesses would be able to review available plans
and choose one that would be affordable and that provides the services they
need.

If our state had a rate-review process as allowed by the Affordable Care Act, we
could compare the rates of the insurance companies and learn the reasons for
their increases. Insurance companies now are required to spend 80 percent to 85
percent of their premiums on care.

John M. Huff, director of the State Department of Insurance, will discuss the
dilemmas facing Missouri at a Women's Voices for Social Justice presentation,
"What is Happening to Health Insurance Costs: How the Affordable Care Act Can
Help," on Oct. 13 at the Ethical Society. Sidney Watson, an attorney and a
specialist in health care law at St. Louis University, will explain how a good
exchange works.

Our Missouri Legislature could make the system work for all its citizens.

Mary Clemons - Kirkwood President, Women's Voices Raised for Social Justice

Kiel's rebirth

I attended the opening night gala at the Peabody Opera House. It has been
restored to its original grandeur. Some of us have been working for 20 years to
see our dream come true.

Bravo to Dave Checketts and John Urban and their associates for this magnificent
restoration. Again, St. Louis has one of the finest and most beautiful
performing arts centers in the United States.

There was a time when shadows fell across Kiel Opera House. There were false
studies and schemes designed to prevent its reopening.

Undaunted, Don Breckenridge took on the task of renovation. He put much energy
and money into the project. He said he was doing it not for personal gain but
because it was the right thing to do for St. Louis. He believed the reopening
would help the renaissance of downtown. There were delays. Unfortunately, he
died before restoration could happen. We should remember his contributions.

I hope we will be able to attend performances at the Opera House of opera, dance
and collaborations with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, and maybe off-season
productions by the Opera Theater of St. Louis and the Muny.

H. Russell Carter - St. Louis

What a mess

If we have to put up with Paul Krugman and Dana Milbank, the least the paper
could do is keep "Mallard Fillmore." We suspect the paper had to drop the more
expensive comics because of the company's tenuous financial situation, but now
there is almost nothing left for conservatives - just George Will.

It does bring a tear to the eye when we consider what an influential and fine
newspaper St. Louis once had. It is now a joke, with insipid human-interest
stories on Page One, poor grammar and a dearth of fine columnists. What a mess.

Christine Knoll - St. Louis

Missed the point

Regarding "The man behind the Jesus signs" (Oct. 1): It seems that Bryan Brand
has missed the point of the Christian gospels. Jesus did not tell his followers
to put up signs with his name on them. Rather, he told them to feed the poor,
shelter the homeless and visit the sick and imprisoned, and thus be known as his
followers.

Think what a millionaire horse farm owner in Wildwood could do for those less
fortunate than he.

Lawrence Barmann - Shrewsbury

Keep the quarters

We see from the financial news that many brokerages think that the low in the
stock market will come when a real low is associated with a double dip in the
recession. This implies a great buying opportunity, but the true low remains
elusive for now.

I have a different view. I believe that the truest and absolute low, the
"tectonic plate of capitulation" will be similar to 1932. That was a time when
the average stock, as compared to its high in 1929, had lost 90 percent of its
value. Even John D. Rockefeller was moved to announce, "My son and I are buying
sound stock." Also, that was a time when confidence began to be restored by the
imminent presidency of Franklin Roosevelt. Even Republicans voted for him.

Many of us older senior citizens remember our parents cautioning us in the
1930s, "Don't spend so many quarters."

Thomas Mangelsdorf - Ladue

Internet voting isn't the solution

"Divisive politics invite a new way" (Oct. 3) described a novel and exclusive
way to nominate a candidate for president of the United States. Well, the
article got one thing right: it is both new and divisive!

It suggested doing away with the present system of nominating a candidate
through a primary election with two or more ballots for the major political
parties. Instead, it would substitute the use of the Internet to cast a vote in
an open primary - there would be no more Republican or Democratic choices.

The group behind this, Americans Elect, had an interesting idea: offer a second
way of nominating a presidential candidate because the present method "excludes
many voters from meaningful participation." Let's examine this assertion.

The voters least likely to participate in this new system would be the poor, the
disabled, the elderly, the minorities and the computer illiterate. Then there's
this to consider. Many people might have all the tools to cast a computerized
vote but would not be comfortable voting in this manner.

(Of course there's the additional risk that some highly skilled person might
hack into computers and change votes or destroy ballots.)

We do need greater citizen participation in our republic, not less. There needs
to be a greater effort on the part of everyone to see that all those in the
identified categories are enabled to vote whatever their difficulty. Internet
voting is not the solution.

This off-the-wall proposal deserves a resounding "No!"

Percy Pascoe - Cuba, Mo.

Support for the ill

I wish some legislator could explain to me why there is such a vacuum for mental
health care in Missouri. The letter "Every life has meaning" (Oct. 1) said that
people are left to fend for themselves after being treated for a mental illness
after only a short hospitalization. We are not a Third World country. Would we
turn our backs on a cancer patient? A serious brain disorder is as debilitating
as any other physical illness, and yet people who are diagnosed have little or
no support from state government.

According to statistics released from the Treatment Advocacy Center, Missouri is
severely lacking in psychiatric beds. When is our government going to get the
message?

Bettye Siebels - Des Peres

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              481 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Financial services briefs

BYLINE: George Liondis, Katja BÃ¼hrer, Vesna Poljak

SECTION: FINANCIAL SERVICES; Briefs; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 493 words


ChiX gets Japan nod

Chi-X, the electronic stock exchange operator that has applied for a licence in
Australia, has been granted a licence by the Japanese Financial Services Agency.
It will begin trading Japanese shares on July 29. Chi-X expects approval from
regulators in Australia by early next year. George Liondis

Suncorp snares Revis

Suncorp has appointed Amanda Revis as the group executive for human resources.
Ms Revis will report to chief executive Patrick Snowball. She has more than 25
years' experience in business management, strategic planning and human
resources.Katja BÃ¼hrer

Bendigo securities price

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank's sale of $750million worth of residential
mortgage-backed securities is set to be priced today. According to Reuters,
there are six tranches in the RMBS issue. Preliminary pricing indications
suggest a premium of about 70basis points above the bank bill swap rate for the
tranche with an average life of 0.3 years, about 100basis points for the
1\xC2½-year issue and 105basis points for the three-year tranche. Katja BÃ¼hrer

BlackRock's IAG stake

BlackRock Investment Management has become a substantial shareholder in
Insurance Australia Group. BlackRock's voting power in the insurance company is
5.10 per cent. Katja BÃ¼hrer

Ethical fund push

Fund manager Australian Ethical Investment has launched a fund to scrutinise
companies on climate change policy. The Climate Change Advocacy Fund will invest
in Australia's top 200 companies and then seek to influence them on
environmental issues. Australian Ethical launched the fund in conjunction with
The Climate Institute. George Liondis

Wilson drops options

Wilson HTM Investment Group has cancelled 80,000 options in its employee option
share plan. The small financial services firm did give a reason for the move.
More than 3 million remain on issue. Vesna Poljak

Keybridge debt progress

Keybridge Capital reduced its debt at a slower pace in the June quarter but
remains ahead of schedule in cumulative debt repayments. It warned that vagaries
in the shipping market may reduce the carrying value of its investments. Vesna
Poljak

India fund return

Shareholders of India Equities Fund approved a proposed return of capital at a
special general meeting in Melbourne yesterday. The estimated sum to be paid
before August 31 is $75 million. Vesna Poljak

Westpac note suspension

Westpac Banking Corporation's $400,000,000 of medium term notes due on July 22
and $600,000,000 of floating rate medium term notes due on July 22 were
suspended from quotation at the close of business yesterday, in accordance with
listing rules pending the maturity of the notes. Katja BÃ¼hrer

Challenger warning

Ratings agency Morningstar has told investors to hold off on further investments
in Challenger Financial Services Group's Australian share and select Australian
share funds. Challenger is outsourcing the management of the funds to a boutique
firm, Alphinity Investment Management. George Liondis

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2010 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              482 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 3, 2004

From The Herald archives

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 277 words


25 YEARS AGO

DOCTORS have accused the police of trying to use them and the National Health
Service to track down criminals. The British Medical Association said yesterday
the practice could be the start of a pooling of information about citizens held
by government departments.

It is advising doctors not to co-operate with police in the hunt for suspects
without first contacting the BMA's central ethical committee.

The doctors' ethical handbook stipulates that a doctor must preserve secrecy on
all he knows unless the patient gives consent, or the information is required by
a court order.

50 YEARS AGO

NEARLY 2000 tons of valuable scrap, including copper and brass, has been raised
in Scapa Flow during the summer months. The salvage operations are being carried
out by a 60-ton floating crane and a tug belonging to Metal Industries Ltd. Work
is now in progress on the hulks of the sunk blockships. These were sunk during
the First World War as a defence against U-boats. There is still some salvage
work to be done on the German Grand Fleet which was scuttled in 1919.

100 YEARS AGO

MOTHERWELL was the centre of labour activity last night. Earlier in the day the
aggressive spirits of the young and rising party spread themselves over north
-east Lanarkshire, and in a variety of dialects, a weird blend of
Northumberland, Lancashire and Yorkshire, they pledged their reputations that
the way to promotion and pay and better times was known only to the Independent
Labour Party. The town hall was crowded to the door, for the political histories
of Mr J Keir Hardie, MP, and Mr Robert Smillie are known by all working men.

LOAD-DATE: August 03, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              483 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                    The Sunday Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            October 14, 2001, Sunday

Take a leaf out of the experts' book

SOURCE: MATP

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 104

LENGTH: 631 words


If you want to take control of your financial affairs, finance experts say one
of the first steps you should take is to educate yourself.

The need for education has intensified with the advent of compulsory
superannuation, increasing share ownership and a growing divorce rate.

The good news is that there's a wealth of information for novice investors.

This can begin with the free, lunchtime seminars run by the Australian Stock
Exchange and by many financial planning groups for their clients.

Busy or remote investors may get better value out of books they can read at
their own pace.

To that end, from time to time The Sunday Telegraph will profile the newest "how
to" books to cross our desk:

  * How The Stockmarket Really Works, by Martin Roth. Wrightbooks, $32.95.
Fourth edition.

Former securities analyst Martin Roth attempts to throw investors a lifeline by
discussing investment risk and behavioural finance.

This includes understanding your investment personality; how to get the best
deal from a broker; understanding what market indices like the All Ords
represent; ethical investment; how to separate good companies from bad ones;
investment clubs; and investing in derivatives such as futures, options and
warrants.

  * Making Money -- The Ten Steps To Financial Success, by Paul Clitheroe.
Penguin Books Australia, $29.95.

This book, aimed at the "mums and dads", covers consumer concerns such as: How
do I gain control of my money? How can I minimise tax under the New Tax System?
What should I look for when buying a home?

Should I buy an investment property? Should I take out private health insurance?
How can I ensure that I have enough money when I retire?

  * Trading Secrets, An Australian Guide To Successful Share Trading, by Louise
Bedford. Wrightbooks, $34.95.

Bedford, a professional sharemarket trader, conducts workshops and seminars all
over Australia.

Her book, published in a workbook format with exercises, will appeal to people
genuinely interested in learning to trade.

Topics include: are you an investor or a trader; learning when and how to use
different types of charts; indicators and entry and exit signals; and how to
short-sell, trade options and use stop losses to survive.

For the behavioural finance fans, there's a discussion of how men and women
trade differently.

  * Family Financial Affairs, A Plain English Guide For Australian Families, by
N. E. Renton. Wrightbooks, $34.95.

Nick Renton is a consulting actuary and the author of 25 books. This short
reference is aimed at parents, for whom some financial decisions may appear to
be "overwhelming".

"As expectations of individuals and families rise, so too does the need for
people to familiarise themselves with the basic rules of sound financial
management," Renton writes.

Topics include: why do you need to make a will and how one can easily be drawn
up; family trusts; superannuation funds and how to prepare yourself for
retirement; how power of attorney works; housing; and how can you make the most
of your housing assets.

  * Separation And Divorce, A Financial And Legal Guide by Charles Birch.
Wrightbooks, $21.90.

Barrister, solicitor and accountant Charles Birch says that confronting divorce
or separation can be bad enough "let alone the hassle of facing the division of
assets such as property and superannuation, child custody arrangements and
support payments".

This book covers applying for and obtaining a divorce; making contact and
residence arrangements regarding your children and allocating parental
responsibilities; arranging child support payments; setting spousal maintenance
payments; organising the division of property; and separation in the case of de
facto relationships.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: STE

                   Copyright 2001 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              484 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 9, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RULES SOUGHT FOR GENETIC SLEUTHS

BYLINE: GLENNDA CHUI, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 767 words


You may take secrets with you to the grave, but it's getting harder to keep them
there.

With the advent of powerful genetic tests, there's nothing to stop someone from
teasing medical secrets from a lock of hair or bit of bone.

Now a group from Chicago is drawing up what may be the first set of ethical
guidelines for biohistorical analysis. It will address, among other things,
whether scientists should be allowed to test the remains of historical
figuresonly after getting the consent of their descendants.

Most of the time, these tests are done on famous folks. Researchers have probed
Einstein's brain to see why he was so smart and tested strands of Beethoven's
hair, preserved at San Jose State University, to see if he suffered from lead
poisoning. Locks from the likes of Napoleon, Elvis Presley and Marilyn Monroe
are in the hands of private collectors and available for testing, for a price.

But even ordinary people may come under scrutiny long after they're dead:
Researchers studied the remains of hundreds of African slaves, buried in a
Colonial graveyard in what is now New York City, to gain insight into their
lives, workloads and medical conditions.

Some of these investigations are invasive, involving digging up the dead or
releasing private medical information, the group wrote in today's issue of the
journal Science. Some are of dubious value to science or society; a few are
blatantly commercial.

And these studies carry the potential for damage to the living: If an analysis
shows one of your ancestors suffered from a genetic problem, could you lose your
job or health insurance?

"So many facilities have bones, or might have pieces of clothing from historic
figures, or bedsheets that might have blood or pieces of body tissue," said Lori
Andrews, who teaches genetics and law at the Illinois Institute of Technology.

"The potential is enormous for answering historical questions through testing of
these artifacts," she said, and museums across the country are suddenly facing
the question of whether to allow celebrity sleuthing.

The group, which includes scientists, historians and lawyers specializing in
bioethics, formed three years ago at the request of the Chicago Historical
Society, which owns artifacts related to the assassination of President Lincoln:
the bed he died in, the blood-stained sheets that purportedly were on that bed
and the cloak his wife wore that night, which also appears spattered with blood.

A number of people have proposed analyzing the bloodstains. Some want to see if
Lincoln had a genetic condition known as Marfan syndrome. Others wonder if they
are somehow related to the president. Then there's the company that wants to
incorporate Lincoln's DNA into a line of pricey jewelry.

"If some sort of personal information is released, you never know how it is
going to be used," said Russell Lewis, deputy director for collections and
research at the historical society.

The Chicago group looked at the ethical codes of 23 professional organizations,
representing chemistry, archaeology, sociology and other disciplines, to see how
they handle questions of genetic testing, consent and privacy. It is now drawing
up a draft set of guidelines for biohistory, which have not been released.

Reaction to the effort has been mixed.

"I think there's a definite need for guidelines," said William Meredith,
director of the Ira F. Brilliant Center for Beethoven Studies at San Jose State.

He said the tests on Beethoven's hair have not been problematic. The composer
has no living descendants. No body was exhumed. And the testing destroyed only a
few of the 569 strands in the lock; there are plenty left.

"So for us it's been relatively easy on an ethical level," Meredith said. "But I
can see ethical situations that would be much more complex."

But Michael Shapiro, who teaches bioethics and law at the University of Southern
California, said he sees no need for a new set of guidelines -- and fears they
could hamper scientific and historical research.

In the case of someone like Elvis, who died relatively recently, there are laws
that protect the interests of his survivors and the handling of his remains,
Shapiro said. And in cases where someone has been dead a long time, it would be
impractical and unnecessary to track down descendants and get their consent.

"These proposals are a substantial blockade to the acquisition of knowledge,"
Shapiro said. "It puts down the interests of researchers in this area, as if all
they are trying to do is unearth embarrassing gossip about people."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For more on the investigation of Mary Todd Lincoln's cloak, see
www.chicagohs.org:
wetwithblood: index.htm. The African Burial Ground Project is at
www.africanburialground.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO [3]: A strand of Einstein's hair has been tested. Locks from Marilyn
Monroe and Elvis Presley are available, for a price.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              485 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)

                            August 2, 2014 Saturday

IN THE NEWS

SECTION: BUSINESS; NATIONAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 109 words


THE 45-metre-tall Brooklyn Wind Turbine in Wellington is being replaced with a
new version that will tower 77m into the sky.

? ? ?

Trucking and logistics firm Mainfreight says all regions of its global business
are expected to outperform last year's result.

? ? ?

People are increasingly choosing to work for employers who are caring, have a
strong social and environmental conscience, and ethical values, a new report
commissioned by PwC has found.

? ? ?

As part of a revamp of the country's biggest life insurer's health-insurance
range, Sovereign will effectively pay its customers' health insurance if they
choose not to claim and instead use the public system.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              486 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 24, 2004

So what will they ban next?

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 716 words


Bernard Ingham

MORE than 40 years ago, under the pseudonym Salty Bingham, I offered my services
to the Australian government through this newspaper.

They were having problems with homesickness among British immigrants and
fish-and-chip deprivation had been identified as a particularly serious problem.
As a connoisseur of this splendid dish, as are all those of 1930s' vintage from
Hebden Bridge, I thought I would be worth my salt to the Diggers.

They did not take up my generous offer. But my expertise, developed over the
years in such gastronomic temples as the Dorchester and the QE2's Queen's Grill,
both of which know how to look after a working-class lad properly - they have
vinegar on tap - may well soon be required much closer to home.

Sizzling with their success over battering the Lords into submission over
fox-hunting, we are told that People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) now
wants to ban fish and chips. They say cod, haddock and plaice feel pain and
distress when caught. Don't ask me how they know, but that's their story and
they are sticking to it.

Other animal campaigners are rushing to ban shooting for game, as we forecast
they would once foxes were off the menu, so to speak. And if they can get
hunting with dogs prohibited, there is no logical reason why they should not end
hunting with guns, especially as it is also seen as a toffs' sport. Banning
fishing - and, therefore, fish, if not chips (until they discover spuds can feel
the knife, too) - would inevitably follow.

It is, of course, possible that all these antis are just front organisations for
the ex-Communist, Dr John (Nanny) Reid, our Health Minister, who last week
showed such tender loving concern for our welfare that he proposed to ban junk
food (fish-and-chips?) advertising before 9pm as well as smoking in virtually
all public places. Will Harry Ramsden's ever be the same?

On the other hand, game is supposed to be good for us. It contains less
cholesterol, they say. And we were exhorted to eat fish from birth. "It gives
you brains", my mother always told me.

I draw two conclusions from these dire events. The first is that, if we aren't
careful, we shall be soon be starving, as thick as two planks, overrun by wild
life and bored rigid by enforced idleness through the prohibition of
centuries-old pursuits.

The second is that the past week brought conclusive proof that the lunatics are
now running the asylum. I know this has been suspected for years. But when staff
at Bristol Royal Infirmary for Children have time on their hands in an
under-performing NHS to determine, whether seriously or sarcastically, that such
nursery rhymes as Humpty Dumpty, Jack and Jill and Simple Simon are 10 times
more violent than television, you know Britain has gone nuts.

You also realise that it is no common softening of the brain when Charles
Clarke, our Education Secretary, proposes to share out the dregs of our schools
- those pupils who have been expelled for yobbery - among all educational
establishments in a despairing effort to combat indiscipline. Clarke is likely
to go down in history as Rot the Lot Charlie, the chap who spent his declining
years infecting good barrels with bad apples.

Indeed, Clarke seems to be a terminal case since he dismissed Prince Charles for
being "old fashioned and patronising" for suggesting that modern education,
which admits no failures, is encouraging kids to believe that the sky's the
limit, regardless of ability and application.

It would have helped if a prince born to rule had added something about the need
for training, since he has had more than 50 years of it and is still not in the
top job. But he clearly has more perception in his little finger than Clarke has
in the whole of his formidable bulk.

It will, I know, come as no comfort to you to hear that Europe is as daft as a
brush, too.

You can't get more self-deluding in an EU raddled with fraud and corruption than
to replace an Italian Roman Catholic Commissioner, entirely open about his
strict papal views on sexuality and family, with a convicted French politician
who kept completely mum about his suspended prison record. He is not, of course,
the only curious cove in the Commission. After all, we've supplied Peter
Mandelson.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc


                              487 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             July 14, 2002, Sunday

She's calling all the shots on the fertility front line

BYLINE: Tessa Mayes

SECTION: Features; News Review 8

LENGTH: 1197 words


Last week saw the latest in a long line of test-tube baby accidents. A white
mother gave birth to black twins after IVF treatment at a National Health
Service trust. Nobody knows quite what went wrong - doctors implanted the wrong
sperm and/or egg - but we do know that the result may be misery for all
concerned. A court may have to establish who are the legal and biological
mothers and fathers, setting a precedent in another legal/ethical controversy.

On the fertility front line stands Suzi Leather, new chairman of the Human
Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA). Her job is to act as referee
between competing fertility interest groups.

Most importantly, she helps to decide who is given access to the latest assisted
reproductive technology (ART).

Legal restrictions prevent her commenting on the intricacies of last week's IVF
mix-up, but she is confident that such cases will not put people off. "I believe
this is an incredibly rare event," she says. "But we should look again at the
procedures and how clinics follow those because we have to do everything
possible to ensure that it doesn't happen again."

For somebody at the heart of such heart-rending debates, Leather seems relaxed.
She looks like a cross between a female Tony Blair and a trendy women's magazine
editor. Ruth Deech, her recent predecessor, dealt Leather a tricky hand when, as
a parting shot after an eight-year reign as chairman, she said that private
clinics deliberately creating multiple births for profit through IVF ought to
pay the NHS for the cost of babies' aftercare - an estimated Pounds 1,500 a day
for triplets - increasing the already large costs of around Pounds 3,000 per IVF
session.

Leather is dismissive of Deech's proposal. She wants to reduce multiple births
by reviewing the HFEA policy which allows two embryos to be implanted in the
womb (unless there are exceptional circumstances). "We may want to move from two
to one," she says.

Those worried about treatment costs will be relieved. But reducing the number of
implanted embryos narrows a woman's chance of conception, a sensitive issue
considering that 83% of single IVF treatments fail. Leather refuses to be
swayed. Medical evidence shows that "multiple births are associated with
increased risks for the mother and her babies", she points out.

What of allowing sperm-donor children to trace their biological fathers?
(Baroness Warnock, who chaired the 1984 inquiry that established the HFEA rules
on sperm, egg and embryo donor anonymity, has already admitted that she "got it
wrong" on this and that children should be allowed to trace their biological
fathers.) "We have a sense of needing to know what our origins are," Leather
says. "But any new rules should not be applied retrospectively. Doing that would
damage existing families and undermine confidence in regulation."

I ask if new rules should be applied retrospectively to provide people with the
medical records and genetic identity of donors, if not their names and
addresses. It's an issue that is at the heart of a claim made against the HFEA
in the High Court this year. "That is worth thinking about, yes," she replies.

Although it is not the HFEA's role to give women advice on when to have babies,
Leather feels that in some ways the fertility industry has given unreasonable
expectations of being able to get pregnant later in life.

"Ironically, the existence of infertility treatment has perhaps sometimes given
women a message that we can afford to leave it until later to start our
families. Good healthcare and keeping fit do help to maintain fertility, but
there is a window of opportunity for parenthood. You can leave it until it's too
late," she says.

As a 46-year-old mother of three, Leather appears to have planned her own
fertile life to perfection. She juggles a family with her two-day-a-week post at
the HFEA on a salary of about Pounds 15,000 with another two-days-a-week job as
deputy chairman of the Food Standards Agency which pays Pounds 30,000 a year.

When she was 30 she gave up work for six years to have a family. Yet there was a
"career clock" ticking at the back of her mind. "It worried me a lot that I had
damaged my professional life," she admits.

Does she think women can have it all? Her answer is unexpected. "No," she
smiles. "If you have a career and children you probably have a pretty bad social
life. Something does go."

Like many thirtysomething career women with no children, I am worried about the
limitations imposed by HFEA regulations on my access to ART.

"Are you going to expand consumer choice on infertility treatment or restrain
its provision?" I ask nervously.

Leather says that she will offer a new "cautiously permissive" approach. I think
she is referring to her Christian beliefs, but what she means is that the HFEA
will be more consumer friendly. It will provide improved information about the
emotional and social outcome of decisions to help patients to make "informed
choices".

I ask about the delay in publishing the HFEA's Patients' Guide to IVF Clinics.
This booklet will enable patients to choose a fertility clinic using up-to date
information about success rates - but publication is overdue by six months.

Leather says the HFEA has had "IT problems" and the guide will be published next
month. But beware. "It may be that some older women may be less encouraged at
some clinics than at others," she says. "Not disclosing information about that
might be a way of, not deliberately but inadvertently, misleading consumers as
to success rates."

Although nobody has a right to have a baby, Leather agrees that older, poor or
lesbian women should not be automatically discriminated against by fertility
clinics. Yet under the HFEA code of practice, clinics are advised not to treat
people equally. The infertile need to pass certain social criteria such as
showing a commitment to bringing up a child and offering a "stable environment".

"The clinics have to be satisfied that they have established that the welfare of
the future child has been looked at," Leather says. "That's not social
engineering, it's being responsible."

Where does responsibility end and social engineering begin?

"Welfare of the child issues are to some extent subjective and will move with
society," she says, explaining that the HFEA's public consultations - such as
the one on sex selection or "family balancing" this summer - will influence
policy changes.

Society does not stop fertile parents from reproducing on the grounds of
so-called "stable environments", so why apply the criteria to infertile parents
who use assisted conception?

Out of the blue, Leather says: "I agree with you. There is on the face of it an
apparent inconsistency, but I still think it's absolutely right that we look at
child welfare issues."

After the interview her blue eyes light up when I talk about the geneticists'
enthusiasm for the transformation of human reproduction and the advancement of
scientific knowledge.

Then she says, "The science is quite beautiful", before she disappears swiftly
down a corridor of power.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited


                              488 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 27, 1989, Tuesday, Final Edition

Dealing With Doctors Who Lie (Sometimes)

BYLINE: Victor Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HEALTH; PAGE Z9

LENGTH: 1267 words


A doctor makes a mistake that kills a patient.

Should he or she admit it?

Or is it all right, perhaps even wiser sometimes, for the doctor to say, "We did
our best." Which may also be true.

Or "it was an effect of the medication," which might be partly true, but could
also be misleading or a lie.

Four hundred and seven doctors were asked what they would do in a case where a
doctor hurriedly gave a 1,000-milligram vial of a drug, instead of 100
milligrams, as intended, to a man of 80 in hypertensive crisis, a man who could
have died any second if nothing were done, who might have died no matter what
was done, and who did die after the overdose.

Two hundred and four doctors replied. Fifty-six percent said they would admit
the mistake to the family. Forty percent said they would not. Three fourths of
these said they would say the patient was very sick and died as an unfortunate
effect of his unavoidable medication. A fourth said they would say the patient
died despite their "best efforts." The case was one of four posed to physicians
in an unnamed northeast state by a medical panel headed by Dennis Novack, a
physician at Brown University and Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. The
panel's bold and unusual purpose: to test doctors' responses to four ethical
problems "that could potentially be resolved by the use of deception."

The panel's conclusion, stated in the Journal of the American Medical
Association: When forced to make difficult ethical choices in which good values
clash, physicians sometimes consider deception "the most therapeutic and morally
justifiable alternative."

In the panel's Case 1, more than three doctors in four said they would
misrepresent a mammogram as a "diagnostic test" to check some hint of cancer so
a woman of modest means could collect health insurance, even though the
mammogram was really part of a routine physical.

In Case 2, nearly three doctors in four said they would allow the wife of a
patient with gonorrhea to be misled about the diagnosis if it were thought
necessary to preserve the marriage (adding in most cases that they would tell
her she had "an unspecific urethritis" or infection so she could be treated to
prevent gonorrhea).

In Case 3, more than half the respondents said they would tell a 5-year-old
girl's mother "Sherry is pregnant," though Sherry had begged them not to tell
her parents that she was pregnant and planning an abortion. Another third said
they would tell the mother, "I've talked this over with Sherry, and she can talk
to you about it." The rest would keep Sherry's confidence (and among responding
obstetricians, 63 percent said they would do so).

In all three cases, the deceiving (or confidence-betraying) doctors could at
least arguably justify their actions by putting a higher value on "their
patients' welfare" than on pure truth. As one doctor put it, "I try to take
every action on a case-by-case basis and to tailor my actions to the people and
the situation . . . Honesty is usually the best policy."

This was true to an extent even in Case 4, the case where a doctor gave a hasty
overdose that killed the patient. Some doctors who said they would not admit the
mistake maintained that their explanation was "best for the family," which had
already suffered so much pain. Some said they indeed might have done their
"best" in difficult circumstances and need not admit guilt.

But at least some doctors, it is clear, placed a higher value on their own
welfare or comfort or on avoiding a malpractice suit than on telling the truth.

Was the deception justified?

Ethicist Daniel Callahan, director of the Hastings Institute for biomedical
ethics, a place of staunch defenses of patients' rights, defends such deceptive
doctors except in cases where they lie after the direct question, "What
happened?"

"Medicine is fallible, so doctors make errors," Callahan said. "If there is no
deliberate attempt to mislead, if no one asks, 'Did you make a mistake, doctor?'
the physician does not have an obligation to hold up his hand and say, 'I made a
mistake.' "

Of course, he said, doctors fear malpractice suits, "but I think the main
problem" -- and part of the reason for the malpractice crisis -- "is that
medicine is not an exact science, and there are bound to be errors. There ought
to be more education of the public about that reality. We shouldn't expect
physicians to be supermen or necessarily bare their souls about all the things
they could have done."

His view is not unanimous, even among doctors.  Still, few find a clear answer
covering all situations.

There is no specific mention of admitting mistakes in medical codes of ethics,
but the American Medical Association's code tells physicians to "deal honestly
with patients and colleagues."

"This is the toughest issue that a physician ever has to face," said James Todd,
AMA vice president and a surgeon, who said that at times he had to face the
issue himself.

"It is the toughest issue because in many instances it is a matter of judgment.
A physician has to make a decision in split seconds, based often on inadequate
information. There is not a physician alive, I suspect, who in some cases
wouldn't have done something different if there were different information.

"We would say physicians should be honest with their patients. But it's a sticky
area. In some sense, you have to be honest and also take into account the effect
on the family. Many times, by telling the absolute truth, a physician can
devastate a patient or a family. On the other hand, we firmly believe that under
most circumstances complete and open honesty is the appropriate role."

The doctors who conducted the survey wrote, "It is clear from their written
comments that our respondents are dedicated and thoughtful physicians who make
difficult decisions at difficult times. Over all, they indicated a respect for
truth telling" -- with exceptions out of "respect for persons."

Still, said one panel member, Lachlan Forrow of Boston's Beth Israel Hospital
and the Harvard University Program on Ethics and the Professions, "we suspect
that most of the time in [Case 4] the doctor who wouldn't be giving full
information would be concerned with protecting him- or herself rather than
serving a higher ideal."

This was only an incomplete, preliminary survey of what doctors as a whole may
think and do, and, Forrow and his colleagues emphasized, a subject that should
have more attention from doctors and the public.

"We'd like to have doctors in such situations tell the full truth," he said.
"We'd like to have honest acknowledgment of error. 'We' being virtually
everyone, patients and doctors."

But more is needed, in his view: a discussion that goes beyond the view of
doctors as "good guys or bad guys" to ask, "What is it today," including the
"real terror" of being sued, "that makes it so exceedingly difficult for doctors
to admit to some kinds of mistakes?

"There are a lot of mistakes in medicine. I think that if that were
acknowledged" by everyone, doctors and patients and families, "it might be
realistic to expect that even in this emergency kind of situation" -- Case 4 --
there would be more truth. ?  ?  ?

A patient or family member, dealing with an "adverse result," might want to know
the answer to still another question:

Was there an honest mistake, an understandable error under difficult
circumstances by a conscientious but fallible doctor? Or was there inexcusable
incompetence? This happens, too.Next week: Medicare's new "catastrophic" fees:
Should Congress repeal or modify them?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION

TYPE: ANALYSIS

                       Copyright 1989 The Washington Post


                              489 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday

Oakland Tribune editorial: New chancellor brings hope for new era at troubled
Peralta district

BYLINE: Oakland Tribune editorial © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 474 words


Two years after Peralta Community College trustees ousted inept and
ethically-challenged Chancellor Elihu Harris, they have finally hired a
permanent replacement.

We hope the recruitment of Jose Ortiz away from his job as president of Santa
Maria's Allan Hancock College marks the beginning of a new era for the Peralta
system -- one that focuses on academic excellence, realistic financial planning,
ethical standards and transparency.

"I'm not beholden to anyone. My only agenda is to make the Peralta colleges
serve the community," Ortiz told us Monday. "I don't make deals. I don't play
favorites. I am ethical. I have integrity and I try to do the right thing."

If he walks that talk, it would be a major change from the Harris era, which was
marked by cronyism and financial abuses.

Harris, the former Oakland mayor and state assemblyman who was never qualified
to lead a community college district, awarded contracts to his business partner,
handed out salary raises to his friends and ran up extravagant charges on his
district credit card -- all while the district's financial system crashed and
burned.

Since investigative articles by reporters Matt Krupnick and Thomas Peele led to
Harris' ouster in 2010, Interim Chancellor Wise Allen has tried to undo the
damage his predecessor left behind.

Allen has made progress, and deserves credit for steadying a ship that was in
danger of flipping over. Accreditors have taken the district off probation. But
they continue to warn of concerns about its long-term financial stability.

The district -- which serves 30,000 students at four campuses, Laney and Merritt
Colleges in Oakland, Berkeley City College and College of Alameda -- is run by a
seven-member board that has contributed to the district's problems with its own
culture of meddling in hiring decisions, secrecy and abusive perks for trustees.

The excesses include medical and dental benefits, $100,000 life insurance
policies, $5,000 travel budgets, laptop computers and printers, phone lines in
their homes and a $100 annual cellphone allowance. Trustees also used to have
district credit cards with $2,000 monthly limits, a practice discontinued after
publicity about abuses. It's time to put an end to the rest of the perks.

We hope Ortiz and the board can find a professional balance, in which the board
sets policy and oversees the new chancellor and Ortiz, in turn, professionally
manages the district on a day-to-day basis.

We must say we were saddened to learn Ortiz's new contract includes a provision
extending him lifetime health benefits that the district stopped offering most
employees after 2004.

It doesn't send the signal of fiscal responsibility we hoped would mark the
beginning of this new era.

We will be watching Ortiz to see if he can lead the district to fiscal stability
and academic excellence. It's been a long wait.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              490 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday

Contra Costa Times editorial: New chancellor brings hope for new era at troubled
Peralta district

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times editorial © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 474 words


Two years after Peralta Community College trustees ousted inept and ethically
challenged Chancellor Elihu Harris, they have finally hired a permanent
replacement.

We hope the recruitment of José Ortiz away from his job as president of Santa
Maria's Allan Hancock College marks the beginning of a new era for the Peralta
system -- one that focuses on academic excellence, realistic financial planning,
ethical standards and transparency.

"I'm not beholden to anyone. My only agenda is to make the Peralta colleges
serve the community," Ortiz told us Monday. "I don't make deals. I don't play
favorites. I am ethical. I have integrity and I try to do the right thing."

If he walks that talk, it would be a major change from the Harris era, which was
marked by cronyism and financial abuses.

Harris, the former Oakland mayor and state assemblyman who was never qualified
to lead a community college district, awarded contracts to his business partner,
handed out salary raises to his friends and ran up extravagant charges on his
district credit card -- all while the district's financial system crashed and
burned.

Since investigative articles by reporters Matt Krupnick and Thomas Peele led to
Harris' ouster in 2010, Interim Chancellor Wise Allen has tried to undo the
damage his predecessor left behind.

Allen has made progress and deserves credit for steadying a ship that was in
danger of flipping over. Accreditors have taken the district off probation. But
they continue to warn of concerns about its long-term financial stability.

The district -- which serves 30,000 students at four campuses, Laney and Merritt
Colleges in Oakland, Berkeley City College and College of Alameda -- is run by a
seven-member board that has contributed to the district's problems with its own
culture of meddling in hiring decisions, secrecy and abusive perks for trustees.

The excesses include medical and dental benefits, $100,000 life insurance
policies, $5,000 travel budgets, laptop computers and printers, phone lines in
their homes and a $100 annual cellphone allowance. Trustees also used to have
district credit cards with $2,000 monthly limits, a practice discontinued after
publicity about abuses. It's time to put an end to the rest of the perks.

We hope Ortiz and the board can find a professional balance, in which the board
sets policy and oversees the new chancellor and Ortiz, in turn, professionally
manages the district on a day-to-day basis.

We must say we were saddened to learn Ortiz's new contract includes a provision
extending him lifetime health benefits that the district stopped offering most
employees after 2004.

It doesn't send the signal of fiscal responsibility we hoped would mark the
beginning of this new era.

We will be watching Ortiz to see if he can lead the district to fiscal stability
and academic excellence. It's been a long wait.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              491 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Glasgow Now

                                 April 2, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ethical money lenders are real credit to our city;
Glasgow. msp writes for you

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 610 words


THE Scottish Government are committed to supporting and growing Scotland's
enterprising third sector, which plays an important role in our society.

One of the ways we are developing third sector organisations is through the
£6million Enterprise Ready Fund.

Among the recipients of a grant are the NHS Credit Union, based in Govan, who I
visited last week.

The NHS Credit Union have been operating for more than 15 years, providing
ethical and affordable financial services for health service staff. They now
have more than 10,500 members - 18 per cent of Greater Glasgow and Clyde NHS's
workforce.

The Scottish Government have been encouraging people to turn to credit unions if
they are facing financial difficulties, rather than borrowing from loan sharks
or payday loan companies who charge extortionate rates of interest. Credit
unions offer much more affordable rates and also allow members to save for
holidays or Christmas spending.

It was a pleasure to meet the staff at the NHS Credit Union, who were very busy
handling calls, membership applications and loan applications.

Although they have many members, I observed that every caller received a
personal service and spoke to a real person at the end of the phone.

There are plenty of options if you are not eligible to join the NHS Credit
Union.

Glasgow has the largest credit union membership of any city in the UK and
Glasgow Credit Union are the largest credit union in the UK.

The quality of staff in Glasgow is also demonstrated by the fact that Robert
Kelly, general manager of the NHS Credit Union, has recently been made president
of the Association of British Credit Unions. We should be proud that in Scotland
we have a long history of ethical finance, with the first ever savings bank for
the poor being started in 1810 by Reverend Henry Duncan - and it is this legacy
that credit unions are continuing today.

Talking of our history, not all of it is something to be proud of. Unfortunately
over the years we have had to deal with the blight of sectarianism, particularly
in Glasgow.

Last week, I attended a networking event hosted by XChange Scotland at the
Pearce Institute, Govan, as part of their Make Sectarianism a History Lesson
project.

XChange Scotland take a creative approach to tackling sectarianism by delivering
poster-writing workshops in Yoker and Dumbarton Road corridor, Ruchill and
Possil, Castlemilk, Pollok and Govan.

The poster workshops allow people, and young people in particular, to use words
to express and share their opinions about sectarianism and how to challenge it.
Some of the posters that have already come out of the project make very powerful
statements. I have a postcard of one of the posters, created by pupils from
Eastbank Academy, up in my constituency office. It reads: "Make the river the
only thing that divides Glasgow."

This powerful message was made into a cake for Friday's event.

ON Saturday, I attended the launch of Generation Yes in Glasgow City Centre.

There were more than 100 young people ranging in age from 13 to oldies like me
at the age of 28.

It was so positive to see so many people at the launch because, if the
independence debate is about anything, it is about young people's future.

I have rarely, if ever, seen this level of engagement by young people - and they
are not necessarily members of a political party.

The Yes campaign is attracting young people as it offers them the opportunity to
take charge of their country, as they would do with their own lives and their
own future.

The fantastic launch of Generation Yes is why I think we will win the
referendum.

With activists with such drive, enthusiasm and good humour, how can we not win?

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAKE NOTE Humza discovers creative way to get message across at XCHANGE
Scotland event

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLN


                       Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              492 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                              May 22, 2009 Friday

Doctors must promote social justice, educator says

BYLINE: By Brian Maffly The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 775 words


Medicine's ethical foundation is supposed to resemble a sturdy, well-balanced
chair.

But these days it's looking more like a broken stool as patient choice and
profit opportunities seem to increasingly outweigh social justice, according to
a top medical educator who will address the University of Utah School of
Medicine commencement Saturday.

Accordingly, health care is not equitably distributed across U.S. society and
physicians must take a leading role in addressing this emerging crisis, said
Darrell Kirch, president of the American Association of Medical Colleges, in a
phone interview. Exhibit No. 1 in his case is 47 million Americans without
health insurance.

"We cannot treat this as a political issue that somebody else has to deal with.
When you're taught medical ethics you are taught to work to create fairness for
all patients," he said. "Physicians need to start viewing this as a professional
and ethical problem and get more engaged in the discussion and make the kinds of
decisions to create more fairness."

On Saturday, the U. medical school will award 287 degrees, including 154
doctorates and masters in human genetics, public health, biochemistry,
neuroscience and other health fields. While health education is growing at the
U., its output of medical graduates is expected to decline.

The medical school shrunk its incoming class by 20 spots to 82 after a shift in
Medicaid reimbursement last year cost it $10 million a year. When the
budget-stressed Legislature declined to backfill the lost revenue, the school
had little choice but to cut class size -- even in the face of a looming
physician shortage -- lest it jeopardize its accreditation, said the school's
dean, David Bjorkman.

Among this year's 99 medical degree recipients is a genetics researcher who
switched to medical school because she tired of being bitten every day by test
mice. She soon developed an interest in pediatric genetics.

"In my third year, I decided I liked working with parents on ways to get
chronically ill children home," said Debra Regier, 36. She grew up in an
agricultural hamlet in California's Central Valley, earned a doctorate in
biochemistry at Wake Forest University, and came to Utah in 2000 to work at the
Huntsman Cancer Institute.

Regier will head to Washington, D.C., to do her residency at the Children's
National Medical Center. She also will be doing genetics research with the
National Institutes of Health, furthering her interest in congenital metabolic
diseases. She hopes to develop treatments that will prevent these disabilities
from developing.

"It's a privilege to be a part of these kids' lives," Regier said.

Kirch finds such motivation worthy of applause. He hopes to see young doctors
also "analyze their personal role in creating a just or unjust society."

Kirch's address will build on themes he developed in an article published last
month in the Journal of the American Medical Association . Last weekend, he gave
similar talks at med school commencements at Southern Illinois University and
University of Alabama. He agreed to speak at the U. because he supports the
medical school's direction and has personal connections to Bjorkman, who
considers Kirch a mentor, and senior vice president for health sciences Lorris
Betz.

"He will challenge us to do things that aren't easy, but are important,"
Bjorkman said. "He says things the way they are. He doesn't pull any punches."

Kirch contends compensation structures have distorted ethical tenets and erected
barriers to improving health care. One result is a dysfunctional system of
health care delivery that underserves the poor, made painfully clear in the
Katrina aftermath. Another result is a shortage of doctors performing the kind
of preventive and primary medicine that offers the broadest social benefits.

"We've created a health care system that under-rewards primary care," he said.
"It is understandable that students don't pursue that."

Now is the time for doctors to think about the ethical foundations of their
profession because of the immediacy of health care reform.

"A lot of physicians feel they have no choice and have to stay on the sideline,"
Kirch said. "The danger is the decisions will be political decisions rather than
ethically grounded decisions."

bmaffly@sltrib.com University of Utah School of Medicine commencement

When » 10 a.m. today

Where » Kingsbury Hall on the U. campus.

Speakers » Darrell Kirch, president of the American Association of Medical
Colleges; Mohammad Umar Farukhi, class co-president; Lynn Jorde, U. professor of
human genetics.

Degrees awarded » 287 total (37 bachelors; 106 master's; 48 doctorates; 96
medical doctors).

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Detrick/The Salt Lake TribuneDebra Regier was a genetics
researcher who tired of being bitten by lab mice. She will graduate Saturday
from the University of Utah as a medical doctor and will head off to a career
researching congenital metabolic diseases in children.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              493 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday

Contra Costa Times editorial: New chancellor brings hope for new era at troubled
Peralta district

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times editorial © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 474 words


Two years after Peralta Community College trustees ousted inept and ethically
challenged Chancellor Elihu Harris, they have finally hired a permanent
replacement.

We hope the recruitment of José Ortiz away from his job as president of Santa
Maria's Allan Hancock College marks the beginning of a new era for the Peralta
system -- one that focuses on academic excellence, realistic financial planning,
ethical standards and transparency.

"I'm not beholden to anyone. My only agenda is to make the Peralta colleges
serve the community," Ortiz told us Monday. "I don't make deals. I don't play
favorites. I am ethical. I have integrity and I try to do the right thing."

If he walks that talk, it would be a major change from the Harris era, which was
marked by cronyism and financial abuses.

Harris, the former Oakland mayor and state assemblyman who was never qualified
to lead a community college district, awarded contracts to his business partner,
handed out salary raises to his friends and ran up extravagant charges on his
district credit card -- all while the district's financial system crashed and
burned.

Since investigative articles by reporters Matt Krupnick and Thomas Peele led to
Harris' ouster in 2010, Interim Chancellor Wise Allen has tried to undo the
damage his predecessor left behind.

Allen has made progress and deserves credit for steadying a ship that was in
danger of flipping over. Accreditors have taken the district off probation. But
they continue to warn of concerns about its long-term financial stability.

The district -- which serves 30,000 students at four campuses, Laney and Merritt
Colleges in Oakland, Berkeley City College and College of Alameda -- is run by a
seven-member board that has contributed to the district's problems with its own
culture of meddling in hiring decisions, secrecy and abusive perks for trustees.

The excesses include medical and dental benefits, $100,000 life insurance
policies, $5,000 travel budgets, laptop computers and printers, phone lines in
their homes and a $100 annual cellphone allowance. Trustees also used to have
district credit cards with $2,000 monthly limits, a practice discontinued after
publicity about abuses. It's time to put an end to the rest of the perks.

We hope Ortiz and the board can find a professional balance, in which the board
sets policy and oversees the new chancellor and Ortiz, in turn, professionally
manages the district on a day-to-day basis.

We must say we were saddened to learn Ortiz's new contract includes a provision
extending him lifetime health benefits that the district stopped offering most
employees after 2004.

It doesn't send the signal of fiscal responsibility we hoped would mark the
beginning of this new era.

We will be watching Ortiz to see if he can lead the district to fiscal stability
and academic excellence. It's been a long wait.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jose Ortiz is the new chancellor of the Peralta Community College
District (Photo courtesy of Hancock College)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              494 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday

Oakland Tribune editorial: New chancellor brings hope for new era at troubled
Peralta district

BYLINE: Oakland Tribune editorial © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: MY TOWN; Alameda; Oakland-Berkeley; News; Local; Opinion

LENGTH: 474 words


Two years after Peralta Community College trustees ousted inept and
ethically-challenged Chancellor Elihu Harris, they have finally hired a
permanent replacement.

We hope the recruitment of Jose Ortiz away from his job as president of Santa
Maria's Allan Hancock College marks the beginning of a new era for the Peralta
system -- one that focuses on academic excellence, realistic financial planning,
ethical standards and transparency.

"I'm not beholden to anyone. My only agenda is to make the Peralta colleges
serve the community," Ortiz told us Monday. "I don't make deals. I don't play
favorites. I am ethical. I have integrity and I try to do the right thing."

If he walks that talk, it would be a major change from the Harris era, which was
marked by cronyism and financial abuses.

Harris, the former Oakland mayor and state assemblyman who was never qualified
to lead a community college district, awarded contracts to his business partner,
handed out salary raises to his friends and ran up extravagant charges on his
district credit card -- all while the district's financial system crashed and
burned.

Since investigative articles by reporters Matt Krupnick and Thomas Peele led to
Harris' ouster in 2010, Interim Chancellor Wise Allen has tried to undo the
damage his predecessor left behind.

Allen has made progress, and deserves credit for steadying a ship that was in
danger of flipping over. Accreditors have taken the district off probation. But
they continue to warn of concerns about its long-term financial stability.

The district -- which serves 30,000 students at four campuses, Laney and Merritt
Colleges in Oakland, Berkeley City College and College of Alameda -- is run by a
seven-member board that has contributed to the district's problems with its own
culture of meddling in hiring decisions, secrecy and abusive perks for trustees.

The excesses include medical and dental benefits, $100,000 life insurance
policies, $5,000 travel budgets, laptop computers and printers, phone lines in
their homes and a $100 annual cellphone allowance. Trustees also used to have
district credit cards with $2,000 monthly limits, a practice discontinued after
publicity about abuses. It's time to put an end to the rest of the perks.

We hope Ortiz and the board can find a professional balance, in which the board
sets policy and oversees the new chancellor and Ortiz, in turn, professionally
manages the district on a day-to-day basis.

We must say we were saddened to learn Ortiz's new contract includes a provision
extending him lifetime health benefits that the district stopped offering most
employees after 2004.

It doesn't send the signal of fiscal responsibility we hoped would mark the
beginning of this new era.

We will be watching Ortiz to see if he can lead the district to fiscal stability
and academic excellence. It's been a long wait.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jose Ortiz is the new chancellor of the Peralta Community College
District (Photo courtesy of Hancock College)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              495 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                     May 28, 2003 Wednesday, FINAL Edition

Drug benefit managers should work for clients, not drug firms;
This small piece of health-care reform could have a big impact.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 273 words


Even as the Legislature debates the sweeping health care reform plan proposed by
Gov. Baldacci, there are steps that can be taken to improve medical care and
reduce its cost. One such step is passage of L.D. 554, "An Act to Protect
Against Unfair Prescription Drug Prices."

This bill, proposed by Senate Majority Leader Sharon Treat, would inject some
badly needed ethical standards into the business of distributing medicine
through health insurers.

Right now, many health insurers hire third parties to handle claims for
prescription drugs. These pharmacy benefit managers, or PBMs, became popular
several years ago because they provided purchasing power and expertise that many
health insurance companies wouldn't necessarily have on their own.

Trouble is, it's hard for an insurer to tell just who a PBM is working for these
days. Besides being a purchasing agent for the insurers and patients, PBMs have
started to cut deals with the drug makers. Sometimes they have a side business
doing things such as clinical trials for drug makers. Sometimes they get deep
discounts that they don't pass on or even disclose to their clients.

The end result is not only higher prices for prescriptions but also the
potential for conflict when deciding what drugs to cover. A PBM that has a
special deal with one drug maker has a strong incentive to steer patients to
that company's brand of medicine, even if a more effective or cheaper
alternative exists.

Treat's bill makes clear that PBMs should work on behalf of insurers and
requires they disclose any conflicts. It's a small but sensible reform that
deserves approval.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2003 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                              496 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             April 23, 2010 Friday

Utah business briefs

BYLINE: The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 289 words


Big-D Construction has received nine Excellence in Construction awards from the
Associated Builders and Contractors of Utah. The company also received the 2009
Utah Labor Commission Safety Award, which recognizes commitment to safety in the
workplace, as well as an ABC National Safety Training and Evaluation Process
(STEP) Platinum Award.



Salt Lake Regional SportsMedicine is sponsoring a free seminar on baseball and
softball throwing injuries on April 27 at 6 p.m. at the Cottonwood Center, 4888
Highland Drive in Holladay. Speakers will focus on the rising number of young
athletes requiring elbow and shoulder surgery and steps that can be taken to
avoid injuries.



Visible Marketing has launched a new website: www.makeitvisible.com , selling
its giant inflatable advertising objects. The website will feature objects such
as gorillas, hot air balloons and any custom designs.



For the second consecutive year CH2M HILL , a global full-service consulting,
design, construction, and operations firm, has been selected by Ethisphere
Institute as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies. The fourth annual list
highlights 100 organizations that lead the way in promoting ethical business
standards.



Spectra Management has been designated by SelectHealth as a Small Employer
Diamond Producer. The award was presented to the Utah commercial health plan's
top-producing Small Group and Individual Brokers based on 2009 membership
numbers and total 2009 premium.



UK2 Group's WestHost , a provider of Web-hosting services, has signed a
multiyear deal for co-location services with C7 Data Centers. WestHost was
started in the northern Utah community of Providence in 1998, and later was
acquired by UK2 Group out of the United Kingdom.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              497 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday

Utah business briefs

BYLINE: The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 289 words


Big-D Construction has received nine Excellence in Construction awards from the
Associated Builders and Contractors of Utah. The company also received the 2009
Utah Labor Commission Safety Award, which recognizes commitment to safety in the
workplace, as well as an ABC National Safety Training and Evaluation Process
(STEP) Platinum Award.



Salt Lake Regional SportsMedicine is sponsoring a free seminar on baseball and
softball throwing injuries on April 27 at 6 p.m. at the Cottonwood Center, 4888
Highland Drive in Holladay. Speakers will focus on the rising number of young
athletes requiring elbow and shoulder surgery and steps that can be taken to
avoid injuries.



Visible Marketing has launched a new website: www.makeitvisible.com , selling
its giant inflatable advertising objects. The website will feature objects such
as gorillas, hot air balloons and any custom designs.



For the second consecutive year CH2M HILL , a global full-service consulting,
design, construction, and operations firm, has been selected by Ethisphere
Institute as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies. The fourth annual list
highlights 100 organizations that lead the way in promoting ethical business
standards.



Spectra Management has been designated by SelectHealth as a Small Employer
Diamond Producer. The award was presented to the Utah commercial health plan's
top-producing Small Group and Individual Brokers based on 2009 membership
numbers and total 2009 premium.



UK2 Group's WestHost , a provider of Web-hosting services, has signed a
multiyear deal for co-location services with C7 Data Centers. WestHost was
started in the northern Utah community of Providence in 1998, and later was
acquired by UK2 Group out of the United Kingdom.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              498 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Business Day

                            March 23, 2017 Thursday

WHO releases new TB ethics guidelines

LENGTH: 518  words


The World Health Organisation has released a new tuberculosis (TB) ethics
guidance to protect rights, aimed to help ensure that countries implementing the
End TB Strategy adhere to sound ethical standards to protect the rights of all
those affected.

According to WHO, the new ethics guidance addresses contentious of the isolation
of contagious patients, the rights of TB patients in prison, discriminatory
policies against migrants affected by TB, among others.

The new ethic emphasizes five key ethical obligations for governments, health
workers, care providers, nongovernmental organizations, researchers and other
stakeholders.

These includes providing patients with the social support they need to fulfill
their responsibilities and refraining from isolating TB patients before
exhausting all options to enable treatment adherence and only under very
specific conditions.

Others are enabling 'key populations' to access same standard of care offered to
other citizens, ensuring all health workers operate in a safe environment and
rapidly sharing evidence from research to inform national and global TB policy
updates.

The guidance to action principles includes protecting human rights, ethics and
equity as core values in WHO's End TB Strategy.

Mario Raviglione, Director, WHO Global TB Programme said, 'Only when
evidence-based, effective interventions are informed by a sound ethical
framework, and respect for human rights, will we be successful in reaching our
ambitious goals of ending the TB epidemic and achieving universal health
coverage. The SDG aspiration of leaving no one behind is centred on this,'

'The guidance we have released aims to identify the ethical predicaments faced
in TB care delivery, and highlights key actions that can be taken to address
them,' he added

However, WHO admits it is not easy to apply these principles on the ground.
Patients, communities, health workers, policy makers and other stakeholders
frequently face conflicts and ethical dilemmas. The current multidrug-resistant
TB (MDR-TB) crisis and the health security threat it poses accentuate the
situation even further.

According to release TB, is the world's top infectious disease killer, claims 5
000 lives each day and the heaviest burden is carried by communities which
already face socio-economic challenges: migrants, refugees, prisoners, ethnic
minorities, miners and others working and living in risk-prone settings, and
marginalized women, children and older people.

Margaret Chan, WHO Director-General said, 'TB strikes some of the world's
poorest people hardest,'

'WHO is determined to overcome the stigma, discrimination, and other barriers
that prevent so many of these people from obtaining the services they so badly
need.'

Poverty, malnutrition, poor housing and sanitation, compounded by other risk
factors such as HIV, tobacco, alcohol use and diabetes, can put people at
heightened risk of TB and make it harder for them to access care.

More than a third (4.3 million) of people with TB go undiagnosed or unreported,
some receive no care at all and others access care of questionable quality ,said
Chan.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 Business Day
                              All Rights Reserved


                              499 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           February 22, 2004, Sunday

For the children's sake, we need an inquiry

BYLINE: Dr Evan Harris MP

SECTION: Features; News; 16

LENGTH: 1160 words


As an opposition MP I rarely support fully what the government is doing in
health policy. However, there are two areas where it has got it pretty much
right and deserves support.

The first is its policy of sticking to its guns on MMR and doing so for the
right reasons. The second is its good record on independent National Health
Service inquiries, such as the Bristol inquiry chaired by the estimable Sir Ian
Kennedy and Michael Redfern's inquiry into Alder Hey.

On the safety of MMR, the evidence and scientific consensus are overwhelming.

There is a lot of good research that fails to find any significant safety
problem with MMR and specifically fails to show any causative link between MMR
vaccination and bowel disease or autism (or a combination of the two).

The revelations and allegations in today's Sunday Times about the research led
by Dr Andrew Wakefield at the Royal Free hospital are well researched, wide
ranging and very serious. The newspaper has performed a service because it has
forced The Lancet to investigate, albeit hastily, some of the allegations.

The Lancet -which had stood by the Wakefield report -has chosen to issue a stark
criticism of the conduct of Wakefield in respect of some of the allegations
released to it by The Sunday Times. However, it cannot and must not rest there.

John Reid, the health secretary, has -predictably -so far chosen only to ask the
General Medical Council (GMC) to investigate, although I suspect he will have to
join a queue to do even that. This is not good enough. The GMC can only
investigate misconduct by doctors alone and cannot address other issues. Nor can
it make recommendations.

The Legal Services Commission is not covered nor is the publishing practice of
scientific journals. The government must institute the same sort of inquiry that
it has done previously to get to the bottom of these allegations, not just
because of the vital importance to public health of the MMR issue.

First, The Lancet found that Wakefield failed to reveal both a relevant
financial interest and the existence of a legal-aided pilot project, which was
running concurrently with what he described as purely clinical -and therapeutic
- research.

Indeed, by Wakefield's admission, at least four of the patients whom he claims
were referred consecutively through normal NHS channels to the hospital for
investigation of bowel disease and behavioural problems (whose parents happened
to mention they had received the MMR jab before their symptoms started), were
also part of another group of 10 patients referred to him under a legal aid
contract for determination of whether MMR caused the health problems.

Despite this finding by The Lancet, everyone at the Royal Free pleads innocence.

Wakefield, in his statement, admits to the legal aid interest and admits that he
did not declare it -but says he is innocent of the charge of failing to declare
a conflicting interest.

It's a miracle of justice. A guilty judgment where the defendant acquits
himself.

We cannot be left in this no man's land. The Lancet has specifically chosen to
avoid the sanction of refusing to publish future work from the authors. Yet its
statement also fails to mention a letter from Wakefield published on May 2,
1998, in response to criticism in its letters page alleging conflict of
interest. "No conflict of interest exists," it said.

Failing to disclose by oversight is one thing. But considering the issue, not
disclosing and yet then denying any such failure is something else altogether.

Either The Lancet is letting him off that one or it has forgotten to cover it in
its inquiry.

Second, The Lancet claims to have investigated and reached a judgment on the
concerns raised about the ethical approval for this research. It declared itself
satisfied after talking to the Royal Free and the research team. But from the
documents I have seen, there are questions to be asked about the competence of
the research ethics committee in failing to obtain independent outside expert
advice on the ethics of doing invasive tests on these children, even on the
clinical grounds offered by the authors, let alone on the non-therapeutic
grounds of pushing the boundaries of knowledge.

I served on the Oxford research ethics committee at the time this was approved
and my colleagues and I would not have failed to obtain that outside opinion.
Yet The Lancet has declared itself satisfied that the Royal Free has done
nothing wrong by dint of ... asking the Royal Free. Furthermore, if The Lancet
found there was inadequate disclosure of conflicts of interests and financial
interests, it must assume -and this is not denied by anyone -that the research
ethics committee was similarly in the dark.

Any ethical approval resulting from non-disclosure of relevant factors may be
invalid, as may consent to treatment founded on such an approval. This seems to
have passed The Lancet by.

Third, what was the Legal Services Commission doing in allocating money for
invasive procedures on children to explore litigation without independent
medical advice or ethical oversight?

Fourth, why was the taxpayer seemingly paying twice for these investigations?
Once through the NHS, which performed the tests in The Lancet, and then again
through the legal aid contract. At least four of the 10 patients paid for under
legal aid were also apparently paid for by the health service. That is double
payment, and we are entitled to know where that money went.

Fifth, as The Sunday Times shows, The Lancet's study was not the only scientific
paper published covering the work done during the period of the undisclosed
vested interest. It may be that Wakefield was not the only one with such
undisclosed interests.

These are potentially career-wrecking allegations. Those who have done nothing
wrong, and this may even include Wakefield, deserve a platform and an
independent inquiry to clear their names.

It is supporters of the "MMR causes autism" theory who have sprayed around
allegations of conflict of interest against those distinguished scientists who
have had some of their research funded by pharmaceutical companies, even when
such interests are declared. Those allegations are apparently "justified
campaigning".

But when publications such as The Sunday Times demonstrate evidence of
non-declaration of conflicting interests, those are described by the same
campaigners as witch-hunting.

The children with autism and/or bowel disease have real needs, their parents
have real concerns. An exchange of insults across a multitude of inquiries or in
the media will serve nobody. That is why we need an independent inquiry into
these allegations and why the government must provide one now.

Dr Evan Harris is a Liberal Democrat member of the Commons science and
technology select committee Ferdinand Mount appears with Andrew Sullivan in News
Review, page 3


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited
