



Download Request: Select Items: 1-499
Time Of Request: Thursday, August 24, 2017  13:44:53 EST
Send To:

MEGADEAL, ACADEMIC UNIVERSE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY-RALEIGH
LIBRARY
RALEIGH, NC


Terms: (Health Insurance AND laws)


Source: Company Profiles and Directories;US Law Reviews and Journals,
Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Newspaper Stories,
Combined Papers
Combined Source: Company Profiles and Directories;US Law Reviews and Journals,
Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Newspaper Stories,
Combined Papers
Project ID:



                              1 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Yemen Times

                                October 4, 2010

Law proposed to provide health insurance to state employees

LENGTH: 658 words


SANA'A, Sept. 22 - A new law has been proposed to provide health insurance to
all state employees in Yemen. Parliamentarians are expected to vote on the law
within the next few weeks.

The Shura Council has demanded that all state employees and pensioners be
included in the law that has been under discussion for about a year.



"This law will make a quantum leap in health services and will reduce the
financial burden on Yemenis," Dr. Samir Khair, vice head of the health and
population committee in the Yemeni parliament, said.

In accordance with the proposed law, a new Health Insurance Authority will
collect a tax of 13 percent from the monthly salary of all state employees in
order to provide them and their families with health services, including
medicine and surgery - although not plastic surgery - according to Khair.

Under the proposed law, state employees who benefit from the scheme will only
have to pay 15 percent of hospital costs, he said.

However if the law is passed, then all state employees will have to pay 13
percent of their salaries to the authority for a whole year without receiving
any services in return. This is so that the authority can collect money and
prepare itself to provide good services to state employees, he said.

The Health Insurance Authority would deal only with good hospitals, which will
create competition between hospitals and thus develop their performance,
according to Khair.

'A break on competition'

Dr. Adel Al-Emad, the head of the Specialized Health Insurance Company, the only
private company in Yemen offering health insurance, however lamented that the
new law, if passed, would not encourage competition between insurance companies.


"We want to make it mandatory for both the public and private sectors to give
their employees health insurance but we want, at the same time, to give these
sectors the freedom to choose any insurer," Al-Emad told the Yemen Times.

Al-Emad said that he thought that health insurance is very important as health
services are becoming increasingly expensive, but that the tax rate suggested by
the new law was unnecessarily high.

"In Egypt, they take only tax two percent of the employees' income," he said.

Al-Emad urged the Yemeni parliament to press the government to create a health
insurance law that encourages all insurance companies to compete with each
other, and allow organizations to choose between insurance companies.

Several parliamentarians have refused this law proposal, according to Al-Emad.

The main conditions for the success of health insurance in Yemen are higher
incomes for state employees, transparency in dealing with the money collected,
and the quality of health services provided, according to Al-Emad. Even with
this new law, improvements in health care services are not guaranteed, he said.


Al-Emad said that insurance companies proposed another law in which employees
would pay only five percent of their salary for health insurance and allow all
insurance companies to compete. According to Al-Emad, it was rejected.

Financial support to the state

Dr. Yaser Abdulmughni, the general manager of the Typical 48 Hospital in Sana'a,
a hospital that opened two and a half years ago, told the Yemen Times that Yemen
should start health insurance now. He said that it would provide the state with
more money with which to improve health services.

"This hospital would deteriorate without health insurance," he said, explaining
that the money from the health insurance tax would help it to improve its
services.

"Health services are very expensive," said Abdulmughni. "The government cannot
continue to support this sector without health insurance."

The hospital that Dr. Abdulmughni directs has a department for health insurance
for the armed forces and its employees.

"We can give health insurance to all state employees, armed forces and even all
people in Yemen, but this needs good management, cooperation and good will," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 13


     Copyright 2010 Yemen Times - Yemen Times Press, Printing & Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                              2 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Yemen Times

                                October 17, 2010

Health insurance provision awaits parliament's approval

LENGTH: 550 words


SANA'A, Oct. 13 - A first of its kind in Yemen law proposal for health insurance
is still under discussion in Yemen's parliament. The law was discussed for two
years in the parliament and provoked long debates among parliamentarians
especially with regard to 'a state monopoly' of health insurance.



The new law would provide all state employees with health insurance via a health
insurance authority, in exchange for 13 percent of their salaries in a health
insurance tax. Parliamentarian Fuad Dahaba told the Yemen Times that the
government wanted to impose health insurance on all private and public sectors
through a governmental fund. MPs refused this 'monopoly' by the government and
demanded amendments of this item to be limited to only public employees,
according to Dahaba.

"The law now compels employers in private sectors to provide their employees
with health insurance, but they have the freedom of choosing which insurer," he
said.

Dahaba criticized this fund describing it as 'a section for tax and corruption'.


At the moment, the state subsidizes 90 percent of health care services in state
hospitals for all Yemenis, including state employees. The health insurance law
would be the first of its kind since unification.

MP Mohammad Al-Asali, a member of the ruling General Peoples' Congress (GPC),
has contributed to the preparation of this law proposal since 2008. He is in
favor of a health insurance law, but not with a governmental authority in charge
of collecting the money for it.

"I'm against the state monopoly of administration of health insurance in Yemen,"
he said. But he added that the parliament continues to discuss some items of
this law and all members of thew parliament are eager to pass this law with the
proper amendments.

Al-Asali said that the government must provide all Yemenis with free health care
according to the constitution, and that the parliament might amend the law to
include all Yemenis within the health insurance.

MP Mohammed Al-Salehi, a member of the opposition Islah party who also attended
the parliamentary discussion on the law proposal on Saturday, severely
criticized it, especially with respect to the establishment of a
government-controlled fund.

"The government should give Yemenis the freedom to choose insurers," he said.
"This fund will extort employees and takes taxes from them without giving good
health services." The past experience of Yemeni governmental funds has miserably
failed and this health insurance fund will also be unsuccessful, according to
Dr. Adel Al-Emad, the head of a private company specialized in health insurance.

Even if the government established this fund, people would still have to pay
bribes to obtain health insurance like other governmental services, according to
Al-Emad.

He told the Yemen Times that the new health insurance authority will need one
employee for every 500 insured, explaining that the government should provide
this fund with 40,000 employees that would cost the government money.

Yemen needs a governmental authority to supervise the provision of health
insurance, but not to control the money for it, he said. Foreign experts said
that corruption, lack of transparency, and not implementing promises will lead
to the failure of health insurance in Yemen, according to Al-Emad.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 13


     Copyright 2010 Yemen Times - Yemen Times Press, Printing & Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                              3 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Yemen Times

                               September 6, 2012

Health insurance plan approved, nears implementation after 20 years

LENGTH: 453 words


SANA'A, Sept. 5 - The Ministry of Public Health and Population has embarked on
completing the procedures to form the new health insurance law prepared,
discussed and agreed upon by the cabinet.

Ahmed Al-Kharasani, a member of the preparatory committee for implementing the
health insurance law, said the health insurance system would effectively provide
health insurance for insured government employees. He said the law would help
protect locals against the dangers of disease.

Al-Kharasani said the health plan was supposed to be implemented long ago.

"The preparation of the health insurance system was directed in 1991,"
Al-Kharasani said. "Since that time, the government has been making an effort to
continue to make this a reality." The Ministry of Public Health and Population
endeavors to finalize the finishing touches to ready the law and make it
effective on the ground, Al-Kharasani said.

"The ministry prepared an executive draft of this law, and it was discussed with
the cabinet. The cabinet approved of the law; nothing remains but the republican
decree." Al-Kharasani said the name of the Social Health Insurance was carefully
selected, indicating that this name requires the participation of insured
employees and the government.   This system is obligatory to include all
government employees, according to Al-Kharasani; in another stage, it will cover
all Yemenis.

He said the insurance system will be managed through two authorities: the Public
Authority for Health Insurance and the Health Insurance Fund.

"The country will be in charge of supervising this system with absolute
neutrality." For his part, Dr. Adel Al-Emad, head of a company specializing in
health insurance, said this law would misfire before it starts.

Al-Emad said there are studies indicating that the financial sums will be
insufficient to provide medicine for all those the bill encompasses. An
individual's income must be high, he said.   "This law requires great trust in
government institutions; the trust is non-existent. If we were in a country
accountable for all its deeds, the government would not take such a risk that
could cause losses." The ministry set up a committee to assess health
facilities. The committee will start working in the days to come. The committee
will determine the shortcomings of the facilities, ordering them to remedy their
downsides, said Al-Kharasani, adding that tackling the shortcomings will give
the facilities a chance to have contracts with the insurance system.

"Among the problems hindering the health insurance law is the unqualified
hospitals." Al-Kharasani said contracts would not be made with unqualified
hospitals. Al-Emad said the health insurance law will improve health services.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 13


     Copyright 2012 Yemen Times - Yemen Times Press, Printing & Publishing
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              4 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday

A guide to the new health care law

SECTION: REFLEJOS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 261 words


A guide to the new health care law

Much is being said about the new health care law, but, what does it mean?

The new health care law expands health insurance with more benefits for people
and coverage at a lower price for many. It will also bring changes for companies
that offer health insurance to their employees.

One of the main goals of the new law is to offer many Americans without health
insurance a way of getting health insurance.

How will the new law affect you?

If you are insured through a company or government agency, you may not see any
changes. But you might have access to new benefits included in the law, such as
preventive health tests and the ability to ensure your kids ages 19-26.

However, maybe your job does not offer health insurance. Maybe you have trouble
getting coverage because of pre-existing health issues. Or maybe you don't have
the resources to pay for health insurance.

The new health care law offers coverage options for many individuals and
families that have not had, or could not pay for health insurance.

Starting in 2014, you will be able to get some type of health insurance if you
are a citizen or legal resident of the United States. There will be health plans
offering coverage to people with pre-existing conditions. There will also be
help covering the costs for entitlement to health insurance (costs known as
premiums).

These new regulations will expand health insurance to cover more people and to
make it more affordable.

Visit www.becoveredillinois.org to learn more in English or
www.becoveredillinois.org/es/ for Spanish.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              5 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Government to present comprehensive health insurance law to parliament in
October

BYLINE: Abdel Razek Al-Shuwekhi

LENGTH: 395 words


The government plans to present the comprehensive the health insurance law to
parliament during its second session in October in preparation for its approval
over the upcoming period.

Deputy Minister of Finance Mohamed Meit said that the drafting of the law is
finished and it will be presented to the parliament during its next session.

Meit added that citizens' health insurance memberships have not changed from the
previous draft.

The Ministry of Finance pledges to provide EGP 5bn for the Health Insurance
Authority in the case that the new law is applied, said Meit. The amount
includes EGP 1.6bn in total revenues from the cigarette tax, which is allocated
for health insurance.

In previous statements, Meit noted that the new system will collect 1% from
employees and 3% from employers in the form of memberships. The rest is left for
social insurance, in order to compensate for earnings.

He pointed out that the remaining percentage (3% out of the 7% currently
collected) will be left for insurance.

The Egyptian market has 550 hospitals affiliated to the government. Some of
these hospitals belong to provinces, 40 hospitals belong to the General
Authority for Health Insurance (GAHI), 18 are teaching hospitals, three are
therapeutic institutions, and 90 are specialised medical centres.

Alaa Abdel Mageed, head of the Healthcare Chamber in the Federation of
Industries, told Daily News Egypt that the chamber is currently choosing five
governorates in preparation for the implementation of the Comprehensive Health
Insurance Law.

Abdel Mageed added that the application of this law in several stages will
create an infrastructure for the various governorates in order to be able to
implement the Health Insurance Law. This is in addition to developing various
hospitals to provide medical services at a certain quality.

He explained that the resources stemming from the law will vary between members'
subscriptions and the imposition of taxes on cigarettes, alcohol, and
nightclubs. The services will be separated from the funding.

Egypt is capable of having a comprehensive health insurance system, said Abdel
Mageed.

He said that the application of a comprehensive health insurance law will open
the door to new investments in the medical sector in the coming period. He
pointed out that a sufficient budget will be provided to be spent on treating
patients in Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2016 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              6 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Despite recent problems, support for the Massachusetts health insurance law
remains high

LENGTH: 971  words


A new poll by The Boston Globe and Harvard School of Public Health (HSPH) finds,
eight years into the state's universal health insurance legislation enacted in
2006, 63% of Massachusetts residents support the law and 18% oppose it, while 7%
are not sure, and 12% have not heard or read about the law. The percentage of
residents supporting the law remains unchanged since a 2011 Boston Globe/HSPH
poll. Support for the law varies by party affiliation, with 77% of Democrats,
60% of Independents, and 49% of Republicans saying they support the legislation.
The poll was conducted May 27-June 2, 2014.


The poll also asked Massachusetts residents about their support for the national
health care legislation passed in 2010 by President Obama and Congress, which
remains controversial nationwide. In contrast to U.S. adults as a whole, a
majority (57%) of Massachusetts residents approve of the national legislation,
while only a third (34%) disapprove. In comparison, a recent Pew Research
Center/USA Today poll found that 41% of U.S. adults approve of the national law
and 55% disapprove, indicating that Massachusetts residents are considerably
more favorable than Americans as a whole toward the national legislation.
"Despite news reports of rollout problems, at both the state and national
levels, the Massachusetts public still supports the state law and the national
Affordable Care Act," said Robert Blendon, Sc.D., Richard L. Menschel Professor
of Health Policy and Political Analysis at Harvard School of Public Health.
Public perceptions of impact of the Massachusetts law
When asked about the impact of the Massachusetts health insurance law on their
own health care in terms of costs, quality of care, their ability to pay medical
bills, and their ability to see a doctor, few Massachusetts residents see the
law having a negative impact. Over four in ten feel the law is not having much
of an impact on the quality of their care, their ability to pay medical bills,
and their ability to see a doctor. Looking at those who do report an impact,
more think it is helping than think it is hurting the quality of their care (23%
vs. 16%), their ability to pay their medical bills (25% vs. 15%), and their
ability to see a doctor (25% helping vs. 10% hurting). The public feels somewhat
differently about the law's impact on the cost of their care-just over a third
(35%) say it is not having much of an impact on the cost of their own care,
while about as many say it is hurting (25%) as say it is helping (22%).

The principal intent of the Massachusetts legislation was to provide health
coverage for nearly all of the state's residents, and Massachusetts now is the
only state where nearly all of the population has health insurance coverage. The
poll finds that 58% of residents think the health insurance law has been
successful in reducing the number of uninsured in the state, 19% think it has
not been successful, and 11% are unsure. By about two-to-one, Massachusetts
residents believe the health insurance law will make the health care situation
in the state better (44%) rather than worse (21%) in the long run.
Problems with website
As widely covered in the news media, there have been problems with the
Massachusetts state health insurance website where people who do not have health
insurance can choose among various health insurance plans. Only 46% of
Massachusetts residents have heard or read about these problems, including 24%
who think the problem is likely to be resolved by the fall, and 20% who do not
expect the website to be working properly by then.
Support for requirement that individuals buy health insurance
A central piece of the legislation is a requirement that all uninsured
Massachusetts residents purchase health insurance or pay a fine, with some
exemptions and financial support for low-income residents. Support is lower for
this provision than for the overall law. However, a majority (55%) of
Massachusetts residents say they support this requirement, while just 36% oppose
it. Opposition to this part of the law has dropped slightly from 44% in 2011.
Methodology
The Public Perceptions of the Massachusetts Health Insurance Law poll was
conducted by The Boston Globe and Harvard School of Public Health.
Representatives of the two organizations worked closely to develop the survey
questionnaire and analyze the results of the poll. The Boston Globe and Harvard
School of Public Health are publishing independent summaries of the poll's
findings, and each organization bears sole responsibility for the work that
appears under its name. The Boston Globe and Harvard School of Public Health
paid for the survey and related expenses.
The project team was led by Robert J. Blendon, Sc.D., Richard L. Menschel
Professor of Health Policy and Political Analysis at Harvard School of Public
Health, and Gideon Gil, Health and Science editor of The Boston Globe. The
Harvard research team also included John M. Benson and Kathleen J. Weldon.
Interviews were conducted with 506 randomly selected Massachusetts state
residents, ages 18 and older, via telephone (including cell phones and
landlines) by SSRS of Media, Pennsylvania. Interviews were conducted in English
and Spanish. The interviewing period was May 27-June 2, 2014. The data were
weighted to reflect the demographics of the state's adult population as
described by the U.S. Census.

When interpreting these findings, one should recognize that all surveys are
subject to sampling error. Results may differ from what would be obtained if the
whole Massachusetts adult population had been interviewed. The sampling error
for this survey for questions asked of the whole population is ±5.3 percentage
points at the 95% confidence level.
© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
(Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              7 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday
                                  ROP Edition

EXTRA IN YOUR Ledger - PEMBROKE;
Selectmen OK health insurance law again

BYLINE:  Patrick Ronan, The Patriot Ledger

SECTION: News; pg. 10

LENGTH: 468 words


Union leaders had a second chance to protest the state's new health insurance
law Monday night because of an improper vote taken by selectmen in November, but
the board again approved the controversial measure.

Pembroke selectmen endorsed three sections of the Municipal Health Insurance
Reform Act, thus creating a new bargaining process between elected officials and
the unions when selecting health insurance plans for public employees. The new
law allows a third party, a representative from the state's secretary of
Administration and Finance, to pick a health insurance plan if the town and
unions can't agree on one.

Selectmen Willard Boulter and Gregory Hanley, who are covered by the town's
health insurance, left the meeting room before the vote to comply with the
state's conflict-of-interest policy.

On Nov. 28, when the board voted 5-0 for the new law, Boulter and Hanley
violated state law by voting on the issue, which directly affected their health
insurance, according to the town's legal counsel. So the selectmen were advised
to vote again, but this time without Boulter and Hanley in the room.

Both Boulter and Hanley recused themselves from Monday night's proceedings, but
not before expressing their displeasure with the lawyer's decision.

"The police have a right to sit and vote on their own insurance," said Boulter,
a retired member of the Pembroke Police Department. "The fire department has a
right to sit and vote; DPW does, school does, everybody else. But selectmen
don't."

Before Boulter and Hanley left the room, Pembroke fire Capt. Ken McCormick,
treasurer of the local firefighters' union, said the selectmen should have known
the law before voting.

"This shouldn't be a big surprise to the board of selectmen that when you took
that vote, you took that vote illegally," McCormick said. "I read (the law) 12
minutes before I walked through the door (on Nov. 28). I saw the line that said
you couldn't vote."

About 20 union workers attended Monday night's meeting, hoping that the three
remaining selectmen would not approve the state law the second time around.
Opponents of the law said it strips the unions of their bargaining power.

Police Lt. Richard Wall urged the selectmen to approve Section 19 of the law -
as opposed to sections 22 and 23 - to give unions more influence in choosing
their own health insurance. Under sections 22 and 23, towns can implement a new
plan without the union's consent.

Selectmen said the law is a necessary alternative to consider as health
insurance costs continue to dominate the town's annual budget.

"We are in a situation where we have to be loyal to two gods: to the union
members and to the taxpayers as well," Selectman Arthur Boyle Jr. said. "We need
to take a look and review the possibilities of making changes if a change is
necessary."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Patriot Ledger


                              8 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                           September 26, 2011 Monday

HAAD gets stricter on health insurance

LENGTH: 613 words


ABU DHABI - Over 42,000 individuals, groups and companies have incurred fines
for non-renewal of health cards of 81,493 people since the Health Authority -
Abu Dhabi (HAAD) started collecting fines last year as mandated by the Health
Insurance Law No. 23 of 2005.

According to Dr Jamal Mohammed Al Kaabi, Head of Customer Service and Corporate
Communications at HAAD, the administrative process of collecting the fines was
activated by the authority in May 2010. However, the offenders were given a
two-month grace period following an official pardon by the President, His
Highness Shaikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan.

In an endeavour to assist the residents in the settlement of their fines, the
HAAD established the Appeal Committee for Insurance Fines to review each case.

Since May last year, the committee received 27,895 applications from individuals
to cancel their fines, 6,677 group appeals, 6,319 from small companies and 1,262
from big companies.

"Activating the Health Insurance list of penalties is aimed at letting the
sponsors/employers provide health insurance cover to all their workers/employees
and not to collect violation fees. The HAAD has decreased the percentage of
violations through this and sometimes it has made exemptions in order to allow
everyone easier access to health insurance," stated Dr Al Kaabi.

For individuals, an appeal fee of Dh100 is charged before all fines are
cancelled while a Dh2,000 fee is charged from companies and their case will be
sent to the Appeal Committee which may cancel or offer discount.

As per the health insurance law, a fine of Dh300 (per health card) will be
imposed on an employer or sponsor for each month he or she has refrained from
subscribing to the health insurance scheme or renewing the health insurance
policy.

"We are not looking into collecting fines, what we are doing actually is we want
everybody to be in compliance with the insurance law," Dr Al Kaabi stressed.

He was speaking on Monday at the launch of the media awareness campaign on the
Health Insurance Law No. 23 of 2005, aimed at educating residents about the
importance of having healthcare coverage.

The campaign targets the UAE nationals who have workers under their sponsorship
such as maids and drivers; the companies to be aware of the law concerning
health insurance for all employees and for those who are living and working in
the UAE. The law states that employers or sponsors are obligated to provide
health insurance coverage to all employees/workers and their family members,
including the employee's spouse and three children below 18 years of age. The
employer/sponsor shall be responsible to provide the basic healthcare coverage
for his/her employees and their dependents.

The authorities concerned in the emirate shall not renew an employer's trade
licence without the employer submitting evidence of subscription to health
insurance for his employees for the previous applicable period, the law added.

According to Marwan Al Nabulsi, Head of the Enrolment and Inspection - Health
Financing Department at HAAD, anyone who has someone under their sponsorship can
now secure an insurance card for him/her valid up to three years following an
option introduced by the authority in January this year.

At present, only 97 per cent of the workers and residents of Abu Dhabi are
insured, said Dr Al Kaabi. However, the HAAD hopes to attain 100 per cent
compliance in future.

"People will know the value of having an insurance card when somebody gets sick
and they go to a hospital and they will have to pay the bill. If they don't have
insurance, they have to come up with the money to pay the bill," Al Nabulsi
said. - olivia@khaleejtimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2011 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              9 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Minnesota Lawyer (Minneapolis, MN)

                             January 7, 2011 Friday

In the era of health care reform, divorcing parents and their lawyers in
Minnesota confront complications

BYLINE: Barbara L. Jones

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1507  words


An early casualty of President Obama's health care overhaul may be
marriage-dissolution agreements and child-support orders in Minnesota.

Ronald B. Sieloff, an attorney in Eagan, says many divorce documents that fully
comply with Minn. Stat. Ch. 518A are completely out of synch with the federal
law Obama signed last year. Thus, Sieloff is warning family-law attorneys to
learn how to draft documents that are consistent with the new law, even though
most of it doesn't take effect until 2014.

Health care reform and the state statute conflict because the federal law
generally imposes a duty to provide health insurance based on the "allowed or
allowable income tax dependency exemption," Sieloff said.   That means that a
parent who could take the exemption under the divorce decree must provide health
insurance, even if the parent doesn't take advantage of the exemption or doesn't
file taxes.

But Minnesota law does not consider the exemption when allocating the
responsibility for health insurance between parents.

"Practitioners should attempt to achieve reasonable decrees and orders under
state law even though our hands may be tied by federal pre-emption," he said.

Additionally, the state and federal laws differ because under the new law,
health care isn't defined as a public benefit to the recipient of the services.

  Under current Minnesota law, if a spouse or parent receives a public benefit,
the child support/maintenance payor must reimburse the government.   In
contrast, under the health care reform law, the child support/maintenance
payors' reimbursement obligation, if any, is undefined.

It is a frustrating situation for lawyers because there are a lot of questions
and no definitive answers, Sieloff said.   "As regulatory authorities go
forward," he said, "there will be more meat [on the law] but you need to think
in advance. "

Sieloff will discuss the topic at the 2011 Family Law Institute.   The institute
will be March 28 and 29 at the Saint Paul RiverCentre, and Sieloff's session
will be on March 29.

What lawyers need to do now is to build into judgments and decrees the ability
to amend them to account for changes that will come with the new law, Sieloff
said.   Modifications to child support matters normally are based on a
substantial change of circumstances, but a change in the law is usually not
considered a substantial change of circumstances because it isn't a factual
issue, Sieloff said.

The divorce decree should allow parents to retain the right to reallocate the
tax exemption and the obligations to provide insurance without a showing of
substantial change of circumstances if the federal law takes effect, he
recommended.

Also in decrees, Sieloff said, lawyers should:

Leave some wiggle room, and should not include a requirement for the client to
carry insurance. Avoid any indemnification, hold-harmless or contingent
obligations, such as if one party loses group health insurance, that party or
the other party must provide individual health insurance. Provide
indemnification for a parent who is penalized for failure to ensure that a child
has health insurance because the other parent was obligated to, but did not,
provide it.

Sieloff recommends a "marshalling of assets" approach to running the numbers for
health care and the tax exemption.

Divorce decrees and orders issued now should use that approach so that the
dependency exemption, mandate, penalty and subsidy through the tax credit are
allocated to reduce the total amount of the out-of-pocket health insurance costs
to both parties and to take full advantage of the federal subsidy for the health
insurance.

That is a different way of thinking about divorce because it focuses on getting
federal money back into the family, rather than on dividing money between the
parents, he said.

With the typical costs of health care, planning under the new law could require
shifting a very significant portion the total earnings of the family unit,
Sieloff said.   And that approach is not on all fours with the requirements of
Minn. Stat. sec. 518A.41, which sets forth its own criteria for determining
appropriate health care coverage, including affordability.

More complications arise if the parents split or alternate the exemptions. If
they do, each could be mandated to get insurance.   When the decree or order
divides dependency exemptions between parents (when there are two or more
children) or alternates the exemption every other year, the mandate, subsidy and
penalty must be done for both parents. That could mean that the insurance policy
changes every year, which could lead to confusion bordering on chaos, Sieloff
said.

Furthermore, the taxpayer has to buy the health insurance in the state in which
he or she resides, which could affect the costs. Therefore, reservation of
health insurance obligations should be triggered if a parent moves to a
different state.

Sieloff said the questions family law lawyers should be asking right now are:

Which parent does federal law require to carry individual coverage for children?
If that parent shirks his or her responsibility, on whom will the penalty fall?
On which parent's income is the health insurance subsidy based? How much is the
subsidy? What is the effect of the award of the right to claim the income tax
dependency exemption on the health insurance mandate, penalty and subsidy? What
is the bankruptcy law's effect of including a health insurance requirement or an
indemnification and hold harmless provision in a judgment and decree? (A
judgment and decree or other order converts what might be an otherwise
dischargeable obligation into a non-dischargeable obligation.)

How should health insurance obligations, indemnification and hold harmless
provisions be modified if inserted in judgments, decrees and orders?

How does the new health care law interrelate with Minn. Stat. sec. 518A.41
dealing with medical support and, in particular, Minn. Stat sec. 518A.41, subd.
4 relating to "ordering health care coverage"? Will the IRS use the allocation
of the dependency exemption as a weapon and not a benefit? What if the divorced
spouses live in different states, or one spouse later moves to another state
with a much higher premium?

For family law practitioners, the MSP formula

There are three parts to the new health care law to remember, Eagan attorney
Ronald Sieloff said: The mandate, the subsidy, and the penalty. (MSP, like the
airport, he joked.)

The mandate: The law requires people to carry a certain prescribed level of
health insurance for themselves and their dependents unless they are covered
under other qualifying health insurance, such as employer-based health insurance
or certain other qualifying governmental plans.

The law, Sieloff said, requires people to ensure that they and their dependents
have the minimum essential coverage. However, he added, it is unclear that a
parent's obligation to "ensure" that a child is insured would be met by a court
order directing the other parent to obtain insurance.

The mandate attaches to the dependency tax exemption if the exemption is allowed
or allowable to the taxpayer, Sieloff said. That means that a person entitled to
the tax exemption, and thus required to provide health insurance, could be
penalized for not providing the insurance, even if the person didn't claim the
exemption.

But it is unwise to assign the mandate to one parent through a divorce decree or
other court order until the subsidy is calculated.

The subsidy: This is a tax credit based on a percentage of the taxpayer's
income. The percentage increases from 2 percent to 9.5 percent, depending on the
household income level. Taxpayers with income of more than 400 percent of
poverty level will not be entitled to a credit.

Speaking very generally, the tax credit is figured as follows: Multiply the
household income by the subsidy percentage, and then subtract that product from
the total health insurance premium. The remainder is the tax credit, which
probably will be in the thousands of dollars.

Although it will be less than the cost of the insurance, it will still be
massive, so families should compute the subsidy before awarding the exemption,
Sieloff said.

"The tax exemption should go to the person who gets the better deal for health
insurance," Sieloff said.

The penalty: By 2016, people who fail to maintain the minimum essential coverage
are subject to a penalty equal to the greater of either 2.5 percent of household
income in excess of the minimum income required to file a tax return, or $695
per uninsured adult in the household and one-half of that amount for each
household member under age 18.

The total household penalty may not exceed $2,085.

Since the penalty attaches to a taxpayer with an exemption that is allowed or
allowable, it's possible for the penalty to kick in even if the tax exemption
isn't claimed, Sieloff said. "I think the IRS may use this as a revenue raiser,"
he said. "They could reallocate the dependency exemption to get a higher
penalty. That's what troubles me about 'allowed' and 'allowable. '"

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday

BRIEF: MP: Protecting patients' rights in Azerbaijan will depend on insurance
companies

BYLINE: M. Aliyev, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 258 words


Feb. 09--A compulsory medical insurance should be applied in Azerbaijan for the
law "On patents' rights" operated in the country, Parliamentary Social Policy
Committee Deputy Chairman Musa Guliyev told Trend.

He said this law is directly related to the financing of the healthcare sphere,
and it will not be able to operate at full strength until mandatory health
insurance has been applied.

The spring session of the parliament will discuss the law "On patents' rights".

"The insurance companies should pay the funds so that the law's provisions were
real," Guliyev said.

Azerbaijan has a law on mandatory health insurance. It's just that necessary
funds are not allocated for its application and certain structural and
organizational work has not been carried out.

The law on compulsory health insurance was adopted in Azerbaijan in 1999, but
enforcement of the law was delayed for 5 years to reduce the tax burden. In
December 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers established the State Agency for
Compulsory Health Insurance. Creating a system of health insurance is part of
the reforms in the health sector and improving the quality of service care.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at trend@trend.az

To see more of the Trend News Agency, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://en.trend.az/. Copyright (c) 2011, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110209-1AZ-BRF-MP-Protecting-patients-rights-in-Azerbaijan-will-depend-on-insu
rance-companies-0209-20110209

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2011


                              11 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday

New health insurance law finally agreed in Dubai

LENGTH: 466  words


Health insurance will become mandatory in Dubai for everyone from next year
including expats and visitors.
Employers will be responsible for the health insurance of their employees,
whilst the government will be responsible for health insurance of United Arab
Emirates (UAE) nationals and visitors will need to provide proof of insurance if
they need treatment. Preventative health care is currently not part of the new
law but this is likely to change when more details are made public.


Mandatory health insurance was introduced in neighbouring Abu Dhabi in 2006 and
official data showed there was a 62% compound annual growth rate in outpatient
claims between 2007 and 2010. It also recorded a corresponding 29% growth rate
in inpatient visits.
The new law applies to the entire emirate of Dubai, including the development
areas and free zones.  It will require companies to directly buy private health
insurance for their staff and it is the responsibility of the employer or
sponsor to enroll all employees in to the mandatory health insurance scheme and
to insure the scheme is up to date and valid at all times.
Violations of the law will risk a minimum fine of Dh500 and a maximum fine of
Dh150,000, while those with repeat offences could be hit with fines of up to
Dh500,000.
Under the current plan, a health insurance card will be valid for one year and
will have to be renewed annually.  The long awaited scheme will also cover
employees' spouses and children for as long as they live in the emirate. Having
valid health insurance will become a requirement for residency visas.
'Health insurance is a form of security and it is very important for every
individual to know that if he needs access to health care it is easily
available,' said Essa Al Maidoor, director general of the Dubai Health
Authority.
'The law is fundamental to ensure smooth delivery of basic health insurance to
everyone living in the emirate, which roughly means more than three million
people, including nationals and residents with Dubai visas,' he added.
Al Maidoor said the DHA had studied 12 of the best health insurance systems in
the world and he believes that it will take about three years for the population
to be fully covered. Currently around a third are insured.
Coverage will be rolled out in phases from next year until the middle of 2016,
with all workers requiring at least the essential basic package. It is estimated
that the average cost of providing the basic insurance would be about 1.5% of an
employee's salary and employers would have the option to top up the basic
package.

Dr Haider Al Yousuf, director of health funding at the authority, said that all
Dubai workers will be given insurance cards to replace their DHA cards. <p
class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           November 26, 2013 Tuesday

Health insurance made compulsory for all in Dubai

LENGTH: 1256  words


The long-anticipated health insurance law of Dubai has been approved. From next
year, health insurance will be mandatory for all citizens, residents and
visitors to Dubai.
His Highness Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime
Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, yesterday approved the Health Insurance
Law which stipulates rules and regulations for all parties involved in provision
and implementation of health insurance in the emirate.
The fundamental basis of the law is to ensure that every national, resident and
visitor in Dubai has essential health insurance coverage and access to essential
health services.
"The law is fundamental to ensure smooth delivery of essential health insurance
to everyone living in the Emirate, which roughly means over three million
people, including nationals and residents with Dubai visas," said Issa Al
Maidoor, Director General of the Dubai Health Authority (DHA).
"It will not be possible to be in the emirate without health insurance.
Residents will not get a visa without health insurance," he added.
The law stipulates the roles and responsibilities of all the stakeholders
involved in the provision and implementation of health insurance.
While the government will be responsible for health insurance of UAE national,
employers will be responsible for all their employees. Domestic workers will not
be excluded from this scheme, the DHA emphasised.
Spouses of residents in Dubai must be insured by the sponsor of the spouse and
not by the employer of the sponsor.

 Visitors to Dubai will get health insurance upon entering the country.  Two
million people are currently not insured, according to DHA estimates.
"We would like to thank Sheikh Mohammed and we are committed to fulfill his
vision and ensure that every individual in Dubai has access to essential health
coverage. Health insurance is a form of security and it is important for every
individual to know that if he needs access to healthcare, it is easily
available," said Al Maidoor.
Essential health coverage means insurance that ensures access to basic
healthcare. At the same time, it should not put a burden on the employer,
explained Haidar Al Yousuf, Director of Health Funding at the DHA.
Although emergency  and surgical services and maternity care will be included in
the basic package, dentistry will not be on the list of essential health care
services.
"It is a smartly designed package, providing for basic services. Obviously, it
does not include luxury services like cosmetic treatment. It provides the
patient with basic needs," Al Yousuf said.

Preventive health care, which has been the blind spot of health insurance, is
not part of the basic package, but this is likely to change with the
introduction of this law.
"We definitely encourage more and more preventive care to be provided by
insurance companies. As the insurance market becomes more mature, companies are
expected to stay with insurance companies longer. Insurance companies may then
feel comfortable to provide preventive benefits," said Al Yousuf.
Insurance companies will be permitted to offer competitive packages, with an
expected average price tag of Dh600. Companies may also offer varying co-payment
possibilities.  However, there is a minimum requirement for the co-payment cap,
explains Al Yousuf.
"The co-payment cap is the maximum amount that the patient pays out of the
pocket. Anything above this amount should be paid by the insurance company. The
minimum requirements of this cap have been made clear to the insurance
companies. Currently, there are more than 40 insurance companies approved by the
DHA, and the details of the basic packages have already been communicated with
these companies. They will be announcing their packages soon," the DHA said.
Sustainable health care
The health insurance law rests on two pillars. Apart from providing residents
with access to basic healthcare, it develops an effective and sustainable health
financing system, says the DHA .
"Depending on the insurance companies' policies, health care will be available
at public as well as private hospitals. Public hospitals will act as private
hospitals in providing health care to insured patients. The idea is that
patients are not bound by financial considerations when selecting the health
care of their choice. They will be able to select the services they find most
attractive," explained Al Yousuf.
"We looked at some of the worlds' best practices and some regionally applied
systems. Of course we want the best health care system. What is unique about
this law is that it does not only provide access to health care services, but it
also ensures quality of these services.
"All parties will be encouraged to perform slightly better, and the results of
this will be published. This transparency will guarantee that the focus of
health care is on quality, and not only on price," he added.
The law will go into effect 60 days after signing of the law, but the
implementation is expected to be done over a period of two and a half years in
phases.  All parties will be expected to comply with the law within a year.

Though details of insurance responsibilities are to be announced to the public
soon, some highlights were announced by the DHA on Tuesday.
Residents
For residents in Dubai, the law stipulates the responsibility of the employer to
provide with the minimum of a basic health insurance package based on their
current health insurance policy.
In doing so, the company must bear the full costs of the procedure and these
costs may not be deducted from the beneficiaries.  It is expected that of the
total amount spent on salaries, 1.5 per cent will be spent on the insurance
scheme providing the basic health insurance coverage, explained Al Yousuf.
As the insurance coverage is linked to residency, companies are obliged to show
sufficient evidence of insurance coverage when residence visa are to be renewed.


The insurance contract may not always cover the same period as the residency
period. If it happens that due to this the employee is not covered by health
insurance and medical treatment is required, the company must bear the full
costs of the healthcare services provided.
UAE nationals
UAE nationals will receive insurance cards to replace the existing Dubai Health
Authority (DHA) health cards that provide coverage for healthcare services and
preventive care. "They will continue to have access to all current healthcare
services provided by the DHA and various private healthcare providers," said Al
Yousuf.
Visitors
On entering Dubai, the visitor will be required to purchase health insurance.
"The costs of this health insurance package will be very low, covering only
emergency cases," said Al Yousuf.
The costs of this health insurance coverage will be included in the costs of a
visa, explained Al Maidoor. "We do not want to duplicate the procedure, we want
to simplify it," he said.
Violations
Violators of the Health Insurance Law  will be fined a minimum of Dh500 and a
maximum of Dh150,000. If the violator repeats the violation in the same year,
the fine will be doubled, although the fine may not exceed Dh50,000.  In
addition to the fine, the DHA may issue a warning and suspend the company's
health insurance activities within the emirate for not more than two years, or
cancel the health insurance permit. The violation may also result in civil or
criminal cases.<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           November 11, 2014 Tuesday

All seniors now covered by health insurance

LENGTH: 215  words


All Filipino senior citizens will now be covered by the government's health
insurance program based on a new law signed by President Aquino.


Republic Act (RA) No. 10645 that authorizes the mandatory Philippine Health
Insurance Corp. (PhilHealth) coverage for senior citizens regardless of economic
status seeks to improve healthcare benefits for the country's elders.
The new law amends RA 9994 or the "Expanded Senior Citizens Act of 2010" that
gave only indigent senior citizens health insurance from State-owned PhilHealth.

"All senior citizens shall be covered by the national health insurance program
of PhilHealth," the new law read. "Funds necessary to ensure the enrolment of
all senior citizens not currently covered by any existing category shall be
sourced form the National Health Insurance Fund of PhilHealth from proceeds of
Republic Act No. 10351, in accordance with the pertinent laws and regulations,"
it added. RA No. 10351 is the country's sin tax law.
The new law takes effect 15 days after publication in the Official Gazette or at
least two national newspapers.
Recently, Malacañang expressed support to the measure providing mandatory
PhilHealth coverage to all senior citizens as part of the government's thrust to
improve the lives of Filipinos. 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                            November 9, 2015 Monday

SMEs in UAE shunning health insurance as deadline grows closer

BYLINE: Adam Bouyamourn

LENGTH: 529  words


Adam Bouyamourn

Only a quarter of small businesses in the UAE offer their employees health
insurance - despite the fact that providing coverage for workers is now
mandatory in Abu Dhabi and will shortly become compulsory in Dubai.

Twenty-four per cent of small and medium-sized enterprises have enrolled their
employees in health insurance programmes, while a further 24 per cent said they
would be in the market for insurance in the next 12 months, according to a poll
of 700 businesses in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah.

This means that more than half of SMEs do not offer their employees health
insurance - and do not plan to even after the deadline for compliance with the
Dubai law expires at the end of next June. The government relies on employers to
fund health insurance for residents in the private sector.

"SMEs remain significantly under-insured, either because they can't afford to
insure workers or because they have done a risk assessment and don't believe
it's worth the investment," said John Katsabanis, the head of marketing at the
educational consultancy Potential, which conducted the survey. He was speaking
on the sidelines of the SME Toolkit 2015 Global Partner Conference in Abu Dhabi,
hosted by the Khalifa Fund for Enterprise Development and the International
Finance Corporation.

Dubai introduced a health insurance law in February last year with three
deadlines for employers to provide coverage. Companies that fail to provide
health insurance by the relevant deadline could face fines of up to Dh500,000.
The Dubai Health Authority has also said that it will refuse to issue or renew
work visas to employees who do not have health insurance coverage.

Public sector firms and private companies with more than 100 employees are
currently required to provide their employees with health care in Dubai.

In Abu Dhabi, health insurance became mandatory in a 2005 law. Companies in Abu
Dhabi that do not offer employee health insurance can face fines of Dh10,000 per
worker. Sharjah does not require private companies to offer its employees health
insurance.

Because of the size of the SME sector, these figures suggest that large numbers
of UAE workers do not get health insurance through their employers. SMEs account
for 86 per cent of private sector employment in the UAE, according to government
figures. The public sector had 436,000 employees in 2008, compared to a
population that year of 6.8 million; 2008 is the most recent year for which
government figures are available.

Insurance Authority data suggests that large numbers of people remain without
health insurance. In 2013, the most recent year for which data is available, 4.4
million people had health insurance, compared to a population of 9.3 million
people. That data does not account for the effect of Dubai's insurance law,
however.

Because the law does not currently require SMEs to provide health insurance for
employees, "Most of [the SMEs without health insurance] will be in Dubai," said
Ivor McGettigan, a partner at the law firm Al Tamimi and Company. "But in eight
months, they will have to get health insurance. Small entities will struggle to
avoid complying."

abouyamourn@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2015 Abu Dhabi Media Company
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                              June 23, 2013 Sunday

Philippines President Aquino signs law for wider health cover for Filipinos

BYLINE: Gilbert P. Felongco Correspondent

LENGTH: 409 words


Manila: A new law expanding the government's health cover has been signed by
President Benigno Aquino to provide greater access to health care services.

Deputy presidential spokesperson Abigail Valte said Aquino signed the Republic
Act on June 19, an amendment of the National Health Insurance Act of 1995. The
move was aimed at ensuring that all Filipinos, especially disadvantaged people
and those with disabilities, were provided with health care insurance coverage.

Under the new law, the state is mandated to provide comprehensive health care
services to all Filipinos through a socialised health insurance programme.

"The new law provides that all citizens of the Philippines shall be covered by
the National Health Insurance Programme [NHIP]. It shall ensure sustainability
of coverage and continuous enhancement of the quality of services to people,"
Valte said in a statement.

Under this revised cover, the health care needs of the underprivileged, sick and
elderly, persons with disabilities, women and children will be given attention
while free health care services will be provided to the neediest.

"The programme shall be compulsory in all provinces, cities and municipalities
nationwide, notwithstanding the existence of local government unit-based health
insurance programmes," Valte said.

Prior to this new law, access to health insurance coverage has been limited to
government employees, as well as private sector employees who pay compulsory or
voluntary contributions as members of the state-run PhilHealth.

"Under the law, the Philippine Health Insurance Corporation, Department of
Health, local government units, and other agencies including non-governmental
organisations and other national government agencies shall ensure that members
in localities shall have access to quality and cost-effective health care
services," she said.

Under the PhilHealth set up, members were provided health insurance coverage but
had to pay for a portion of the cost for the treatment.

The expanded law came after Aquino's appointment of lawyer Alexander Padilla as
head of the PhilHealth.

Padilla was a former government peace negotiator in negotiations with the
National Democratic Front-Communist Party of the Philippines-New People's Army.

Valte, in a press briefing last Wednesday, said Aquino had named Padilla as a
member of the board of directors of PhilHealth and approved his nomination as
the next president and chief executive officer of the agency.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2013 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           September 7, 2013 Saturday

Site answers questions on health changes

LENGTH: 328  words


A new website rolled out this week by the Kansas Insurance Department will help
Kansans learn more about changes in the health insurance market in the coming
months.
The site, insureKS.org, features educational information for Kansans who may be
interested in accessing health insurance coverage through either the online
Health Insurance Marketplace or in the regular insurance market outside of the
marketplace.  The Health Insurance Marketplace is an Internet portal that will
allow people to sign up for health insurance as part of the new federal health
reform law and to determine whether they may be eligible for financial
assistance to pay for health insurance.


Also included on the insureKS.org website are the following:
* An interactive program nicknamed "Alex" helps a viewer learn about the 2014
health insurance changes and how they might affect their insurance situation.
* A premium estimator calculates premium costs and possible tax credits for
individuals and families, based on the information they provide.
* Brochures and FAQs that explain provisions of the health insurance law that go
into effect Jan. 1.* A link to the federal Health Insurance Marketplace.
* A list of external resources.
* Information about Kansas Navigator programs, insurance agents, and others
offering personal help with understanding the law's provisions.
The site links to short videos of Sandy Praeger, commissioner of insurance, who
explains portions of the law that may affect Kansans.
Social media users can also find links to the insureKS.org Facebook, Twitter and
YouTube channel at the website. A link to the new department "Health Insurance
in Kansas" booklet will also be there.
"Kansans who go online to the new site will find many answers to the questions
that have been raised about the new health insurance provisions," Commissioner
Praeger said. "We have tried to provide information and education pieces that
will give them a chance to get the facts for themselves."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      June 24, 1996, Monday, ALL EDITIONS

1 in 4 went uninsured, survey finds;
Census report comes amid health care debate

BYLINE: Larry Lipman; WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 01A; Pg. 06A

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: Washington


More than 66 million Americans - more than one in four - went without health
insurance for at least a month during a recent period of just over two years,
the U.S. Census Bureau says in a report released today.

Roughly 12 million people - about one in 20 - were uninsured for the entire 28
months between February 1992 and May 1994, the report says.

The Census Bureau report comes as lawmakers continue efforts to pass a health
care reform bill that would make it easier for workers to keep their insurance
when they move from job to job and would prohibit insurance companies from
refusing to cover individuals because of their health status.

Both houses have passed versions of the bill, but it has stalled over the issue
of creating tax-free medical savings accounts.

The census report showed that 73 percent of all Americans were insured for the
entire 28-month period from 1992 to 1994, but 27 percent lacked insurance for at
least a month and about 5 percent were uninsured the entire time.

Children under 18 made up the largest group of uninsured. More than 20 million
children - 30 percent - were uninsured for at least a month.

"Ordinary, middle-class Americans are at serious risk," said Arnold Bennett, a
spokesman for Families USA, a nonprofit organization that advocates insurance
reforms. "You lose your insurance for two, three or six months and you pray that
you don't have a serious health problem."

The Census Bureau report, drawn from surveys every four months of about 20,000
families, found that age, employment status, sex and race played significant
parts in determining insurance coverage.

Young adults between 18 and 24 had the highest rate of noninsurance, and more
than half - 51 percent - were uninsured for the entire 28-month period.
Full-time workers were the most insured.

Women were slightly more likely than men - 75 percent to 71 percent - to be
insured, primarily because women and children are the primary beneficiaries of
the federal-state Medicaid program, and because women live longer than men and
so make up a larger share of the Medicare population.

Of those without insurance for at least a month, 23 percent were whites of
non-Hispanic origin, 36 percent were black and 49 percent were Hispanic.

Poor people were more likely to be uninsured at some time. About one- half of
those with incomes at or below the poverty level lacked insurance for at least a
month.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution


                              18 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                 Hidalgo County Herald (Lordsburg, New Mexico)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  July 9, 2010

Health insurance reform law already benefiting New Mexicans;
Information courtesy SEN. JEFF BINGAMANS OFFICE/ Washington, DC

BYLINE: Hidalgo County Herald staff

LENGTH: 477  words


U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman last week said he is pleased New Mexico is able to
expand its ability to provide affordable health insurance coverage for high-risk
uninsured residents - one of the first benefits of the newly enacted health
insurance reform law Bingaman helped write. The law will provide at least $37
million to New Mexico for the new high risk pool.

Beginning July 2, the New Mexico Human Services Department (HSD) in cooperation
with the New Mexico Medical, Insurance Pool (NMMIP) will contract with the U.S.
Health and Human Services Department to operate a temporary federal high-risk
insurance pool program in New Mexico to assist people with a pre-existing
medical condition who have been uninsured for at leastsix months.

"This new program will allow the state to expand services to ensure that New
Mexicans who are battling an, illness or who have' been sick in the past can
secure affordable and meaningful health insurance - not only protecting these
New Mexicans' health but also protecting their financial security in these
difficult economic times," Bingaman said.

Low income residents may also qualify for a subsidized premium. - The temporary
pool will expire in 2014, when the new federal law bars the denial of insurance
coverage for medical reasons across all health plans in the country and also
prevents insurance plans from charging premiums based on the health status of
enrollees.

Bingaman also said he is pleased that New Mexicans now have a place to turn to
for the most up-to-date information on the newly enacted health insurance reform
law.

The White House's newly launched HealthCare.gov - a new consumer website that
provides transparency into the health care marketplace - provides New Mexicans
with easy to understand, information about the health insurance coverage options
available in the state.

The website includes information about consumer rights and benefits under the
health insure reform law, a timeline of when new programs under the new law will
come online between now and 2014 and a new insurance finder that will make it
easy to find New Mexico-specific information about both private and public
health insurance options.

"Purchasing health insurance can be a complex, confusing process. This new
website will provide New Mexicans with up-to-date information and news specific
to our state to help them make the right choices for themselves and their
families when purchasing insurance. HealthCare.gov also lets people know about
the benefits of the new health insurance reform bill as it begins to take
effect,". Bingaman said.

Bingaman was instrumental in the writing and passing of the health insurance
reform law that was enacted into law earlier this year. Bingaman is the only
Democrat on the Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and the Finance
Committee - the two Senate committees that wrote the law.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Health

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDG

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                      Copyright 2010 Hidalgo County Herald


                              19 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           August 24, 2016 Wednesday

Bill status of An Act to improve efficiency and coordination of health through a
new division of health insurance

LENGTH: 420  words

DATELINE: New York



 3Boston: General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has issue the
following bill status:



 Sponsors:



 Christine P. Barber

 Status:

 SECTION 1. The third sentence of the first paragraph of subsection (d) of
section 38C of chapter 3 of the General Laws is hereby amended by striking out
the words "the division of insurance" and inserting in place thereof the
following words:- the division of health insurance.









 SECTION 2. The second paragraph of section 16 of chapter 6A of the General Laws
is hereby amended by striking out the words "and (7) the health facilities
appeals board" and inserting in place thereof the following words:- (7) the
health facilities appeals board; and (8) the division of health insurance under
the direction of the commissioner of health insurance.







 SECTION 3. The second sentence of subsection (a) of section 16D of chapter 6A
of the General Laws is hereby amended by striking out the words "the
commissioner of insurance" and inserting in place thereof the following words:-
the commissioner of health insurance.







 SECTION 4. The definition of "Net cost of private health insurance" in section
1 of chapter 6C of the General Laws is hereby amended by striking out the words
"the division of insurance" and inserting in place thereof the following words:-
the division of health insurance.







 SECTION 5. The third sentence of subsection (a) of section 11 of chapter 6C of
the General Laws is hereby amended by striking out the words "the division of
insurance" and inserting in place thereof the following words:- the division of
health insurance.







 SECTION 6. The third sentence of subsection (c) of section 11 of chapter 6C of
the General Laws is hereby amended by striking out the words "the division of
insurance" and inserting in place thereof the following words:- the division of
health insurance.







 SECTION 7. The first sentence of subsection (d) of section 11 of chapter 6C of
the General Laws is hereby amended by striking out the words "the division of
insurance" and inserting in place thereof the following words:- the division of
health insurance.







 SECTION 8. The first sentence of subsection (e) of section 11 of chapter 6C of
the General Laws is hereby amended by striking out the words "the division of
insurance" and inserting in place thereof the following words:- the division of
health insurance.







 SECTION 9. Clause (ix) of subsection (b



  In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            April 27, 2013 Saturday

Health insurance alternative becomes law in Arkansas

LENGTH: 363  words


Arkansas health insurance law provides alternative to expansion of Medicaid
programThe Affordable Care Act has seen no shortage of controversy and challenge
in the U.S. While some states have worked to unseat the federal law, despite it
being upheld by the Supreme Court, Arkansas has been one of the few that has
been working for alternatives regarding the provisions outlined in the law.
Earlier this year, Arkansas began developing a plan to support its private
health insurance exchanges as a suitable alternative to expanding its Medicaid
program that would offer affordable health insurance coverage to its residents.


Law meant to circumvent need to expand Medicaid
This week, Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe has signed a bill into law concerning
the state's efforts to extend health insurance coverage to more people
throughout the state. The law allows the state to make use of federal funds
allotted to the Medicaid program to purchase private health insurance coverage
for some 250,000 people. This coverage will be purchased through private
insurers as well as those participating in the state's health insurance
exchange, which the federal government will be operating.
State officials to seek support from HHS
When this initiative was introduced earlier in the year, Governor Beebe issued a
letter to the Department of Health and Human Services concerning the matter. The
HHS claimed that this measure would serve as a suitable alternative to a
provision of the Affordable Care Act that required the state to expand its
Medicaid program. State representatives plan to travel to Washington D.C. in
order to reaffirm the support of the HHS.
Arkansas may serve as a powerful example for other statesThe move has sent
ripples throughout the country concerning compliance with the Affordable Care
Act. States that have been opposing the law, such as Texas and Louisiana, are
looking at the Arkansas initiative with interest. Arkansas may serve as a strong
example of what can be done in order to comply with the Affordable Care Act and
make health insurance more available to more people without having to strictly
adhere to some of the controversial provisions of the law itself.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

Yemeni parliament approves health insurance bill

LENGTH: 116 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["Parliament endorses social health insurance law" - SABA headline]

Sana'a, May 10 (Saba) - Parliament approved on Tuesday [10 May] a draft of
social health insurance law.

The law consists of 47 articles distributed into seven chapters dealt with
definitions, goals, and health insurance financing resources, health insurance
services, insurance management, penalties and other general and final
provisions.

The law aims to guarantee the insured person's rights to obtain health care in
accordance with terms laid out in the law and in its executive bylaw.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sana'a, in English 1346 gmt 10 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            September 2, 2013 Monday

Arizona: HOUSE BILL 2204

LENGTH: 704  words

DATELINE: Phoenix


Office of the Legislative, The State of Arizona has issued the following bill:

AN ACT

amending section 38-1103, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to law enforcement
officers.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)


Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:

Section 1.  Section 38-1103, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:

38-1103.  Health insurance payments for spouse or dependents of law enforcement
officer killed in the line of duty; definition

A.  Notwithstanding any other law, the surviving spouse or a surviving dependent
of a deceased law enforcement officer is entitled to receive payments for health
insurance premiums from public monies of the employer of the law enforcement
officer for the first year after the death of the law enforcement officer if:

1.  if the law enforcement officer was killed in the line of duty or died from
injuries suffered in the line of duty.

2.  The law enforcement officer was enrolled in the employer's health insurance
plan at the time of death.

3.  The surviving spouse is entitled to continue to participate in the
employer's health insurance plan.

B.  This section applies to the dependents of the deceased law enforcement
officer if the dependents were enrolled in the employer's health insurance plan
at the time of the law enforcement officer's death.

C.  Payments shall be reduced for monies paid for health insurance premiums for
the surviving spouse or dependents of the surviving spouse from the retirement
plan from which the surviving spouse is receiving benefits.

B.  The employer shall make payments if the surviving spouse or surviving
dependent is enrolled in either:

1.  The health insurance program of the employer.

2.  The health insurance program that is offered by the state retirement system
or plan from which the surviving spouse or surviving dependent is receiving
benefits.

C.  The health insurance premium amount payable by the employer of the deceased
law enforcement officer is the amount the employer of the deceased law
enforcement officer would pay for an active law enforcement officer for a family
coverage premium or single coverage premium, whichever is applicable. Payments
shall be discontinued pursuant to this section if:

1.  The surviving spouse remarries.

2.  The surviving spouse becomes medicare eligible.

3.  The surviving spouse dies.

4.  For dependent coverage, the person is no longer considered a dependent.

D.  If the employer currently pays a greater portion of the health insurance
premium for a surviving spouse or a surviving dependent than the required amount
prescribed in subsection C of this section, the surviving spouse or surviving
dependent shall receive the greater amount as payment toward the surviving
spouse's or surviving dependent's health insurance premium.

D.  E.  For the purposes of this section: ,

1.  "Dependent" means an unmarried child of a deceased law enforcement officer
who meets one of the following qualifications:

(a)  Is under eighteen years of age.

(b)  Is at least eighteen years of age and under twenty-three years of age only
during any period that the child is a full-time student.

(c)  Is under a disability that began before the child attained
twenty[#x2011]three years of age and remains a dependent of the surviving spouse
or guardian.

2.  "Law enforcement officer" means:

1.  (a)  A peace officer who is certified by the Arizona peace officers officer
standards and training board.

2.  (b)  A detention officer or corrections officer who is employed by this
state or a political subdivision of this state.

3.  (c)  A probation officer or surveillance officer who is employed by this
state or a political subdivision of this state.

(d)  A firefighter who is employed by this state or a political subdivision of
this state.

(e)  A corrections officer or firefighter who works on behalf of this state or a
political subdivision of this state through a contract with a private company.

Sec. 2.  Emergency

This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve the public peace,
health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by law.

APPROVED BY THE GOVERNOR APRIL 5, 2013.

FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE APRIL 5, 2013.


For further information please visit: http://www.azleg.gov/

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday

Health care progress goes before Court

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 767 words


Wednesday March 7, 2012

NORTH ADAMS

Starting on March 26, the United States Supreme Court will hear three days of
arguments to consider the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act. Among
its many provisions, the ACA could potentially enable 32 million uninsured
Americans to access affordable health coverage.

At issue are two major provisions of the ACA. These include an expansion of the
Medicaid program, the health insurance program that provides health coverage to
people with low incomes and is jointly funded by the federal and state
governments. The court will decide whether this is a valid exercise of Con
gress's spending power.

The more heated provision is the individual health insurance mandate, which,
beginning in 2014, will require most Americans to maintain a minimum level of
health insurance coverage for themselves and their dependents. To help
individuals be able to afford coverage, subsidies will be provided to those with
incomes up to 400 percent of the federal poverty guidelines, currently $43,560 a
year for an individual, and $89,400 for a family of four. Some individuals will
be exempt from the mandate, including individuals whose annual health insurance
premiums exceed 8 percent of their household gross income.

The constitutionality arguments about the mandate center on Congress's ability
to regulate interstate commerce. Current law establishes that Congress can
regulate any activity that it concludes substantially affects interstate
commerce. Arguments against the law claim an inactivity, a choice not to
purchase health insurance, should not subjected to regulation.

The federal government counters that because everyone uses health care at some
point, Congress can require people to buy insurance, limiting the costs imposed
by the uninsured on individuals in the insurance market. The argument is when
more healthy individuals do not purchase health insurance, this drives up the
costs of health care for everyone else. Conversely, when healthy people purchase
health insurance this drives down the cost of health care for all.

At Ecu-Health Care, the health insurance outreach and enrollment site in North
Adams, we have observed closely how the Massachusetts health coverage
requirement, the template for the ACA, has impacted residents of North Berkshire
and gives a preview of the potential impact of the federal law. In 2007, the
year following the passage of the Massachusetts law, the number of individuals
who we helped to enroll in state health coverage programs increased by 72
percent. This was precipitated by a combination of the new state health
insurance requirement, an expansion of MassHealth, and the implementation of
Commonwealth Care the subsidized health insurance for individuals with yearly
incomes up to $32,676.

Frequently, young adults would preface the application process by saying: "My
mom said I had to be here, otherwise I would be penalized on my taxes." Two of
those young men were diagnosed with cancer in the following year. Without the
health insurance mandate and the implementation of Commonwealth Care, they would
have started their adult lives in deep medical debt. Throughout Massachu setts,
while thousands have obtained health insurance to avoid potential tax penalties,
they have been rewarded by getting affordable health coverage that protected
then from incurring financial harm when requiring needed health care.

The Supreme Court could decide the Affordable Care Act is constitutional and
leave the law intact; the court could decide the mandate and/or the Medicaid
expansion are unconstitutional, but keep other parts of the law intact; or it
could decide the components of the law cannot be severed and the entire law
could be struck down. The court could also decide, because of the federal
Anti-Injunction Act, which bars any suit being filed before the implementation
of a tax, that it must wait to rule on the law until after the mandate goes into
effect and tax returns come due in 2015.

It is widely recognized that health policy is 1 percent policy and 99 percent
politics, and no health policy is useful unless it finds a way to be come law.
Ultimately, the most important judgment on the ACA will be made in the November
elections, deciding whether supporters or opponents of the ACA will hold power
next January.

How the Supreme Court acts though, will help determine if we will continue to
make progress addressing this most vexing public policy struggle of the past 100
years that to date has eluded any effective remedy.

Charles Joffe-Halpern is the executive director of Ecu-Health Care in North
Adams.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                            February 16, 2014 Sunday

Dubai's compulsory health insurance starts

BYLINE: The National staff

LENGTH: 251  words


"The law is effective 60 days after it is signed, thus making February 15 the
actual day the law comes into force, according to Dr Haider Al Yousuf, director
of health funding at the DHA.

DUBAI // A new law requiring compulsory health insurance for all Dubai residents
formally went into effect yesterday.
Initiated by the Dubai Health Authority, the legislation was signed into law by
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, Vice President and Ruler of Dubai, in November.
"The law is effective 60 days after it is signed, so that is the actual action
of the law itself, but the implementation plan is a two-and-a-half year
implementation plan," said Dr Haider Al Yousuf, director of health funding at
the DHA.
Phase one of the scheme requires companies with 1,000 or more employees to
provide their workers with health insurance by October. In phase two, companies
with 100 to 999 employees will have until the end of July 2015 to comply.
Companies with fewer than 100 workers have until the end of June 2016 to provide
cover.
According to the law, companies are only required to cover the cost of health
insurance for their employees and not the employees' dependents. The cost of
health coverage for the workers' dependents will be borne by the worker.
The government will be responsible for providing health insurance for Emiratis.

Employers who fail to provide health insurance to their workers face hefty fines
between Dh500 and Dh150,000. Repeated breaches carry a maximum fine of
Dh500,000.
newsdesk@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2014 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Dubai law to provide health cover for all

BYLINE: Mahmood Saberi Senior Reporter

LENGTH: 556 words


Dubai: All Dubai residents will have health insurance within three years and a
new law has made it compulsory for companies to provide coverage for their
employees. Presently, only one million Dubai residents have health cover and the
new regulation will give more than three million people access to quality
health-care services, the Dubai Health Authority (DHA) announced on Tuesday.

The mandatory health insurance is also linked to the visa, and every
expatriate's residence or work visa renewal would require him or her to be
covered by health insurance. This includes domestic workers such as maids and
drivers. However, individual expatriate employees who sponsor their spouses and
children will have to bear the cost of their health insurance.

The new Health Insurance Law has been approved by His Highness Shaikh Mohammad
Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, UAE Vice-President and Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai.

Eisa Al Maidour, director-general, DHA, said, "The law is fundamental to
ensuring smooth delivery of essential health insurance to everyone living in the
emirate, which roughly means over three million people, including nationals and
residents with Dubai visas."

The new law, according to him, will ensure universal access to quality
health-care services. The other goal of this law, he said, is the development of
a health insurance system that is dynamic in nature and one that will attract
investment and quality players in the field of health to boost the emirate's
booming economy.

Hospitals and clinics are ready to handle the expected rush of people who would
seek medical services once they are covered, he said. An additional 1,500
hospital beds are being added across the emirate.

The new health insurance regulation will now encourage many expatriates to seek
prompt medical help here rather than delay the process and wait until their
annual vacations to avail of cheaper health-care services back home.

Regarding the additional costs to be borne by companies, Dr Haider Al Yousuf,
director, Health Funding, DHA, said it works out to about 1.5 per cent of a
company's payroll budget to provide health cover to its employees. It is the
responsibility of companies to provide for their expatriate employees' health
care, he said.

Emiratis, he said, will receive insurance cards to replace the existing DHA
health cards that provide for health-care services and preventive care.

Health insurance packages will soon be made available for all employers in
Dubai.

The basic health insurance package will cost Dh600 per year and will provide
basic health services and surgeries. However, it will not cover preventive care.
However, Dr Al Yousuf said the authorities are working towards it.

Commenting on the possibility of expatriates fearing that the additional costs
to be borne by companies due to the new policy may lead them to adjust salaries
(see box), Dr Al Yousuf clarified that doing so would be against the law. He
allayed fears by explaining that only registered companies would be able to
provide insurance schemes and packages. "The DHA will provide insurance
companies with Health Insurance Permits and the move is aimed to ensure that
every insurance company follows high standards as well as rules and regulations
that are compliant with the Authority."

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© Al Nisr Publishing LLC 2013.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2013 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Stateline.org

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday

Lawmakers eye out-of-state health insurance

BYLINE: Christine Vestal, Stateline.org

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 553 words


April 27--LOOSER RULES: Two Republican governors -- Jan Brewer of Arizona and
Nathan Deal of Georgia -- are expected to sign bills that would allow residents
to purchase health insurance across state lines. Conservative lawmakers say the
change would promote consumer choice, competition and lower insurance rates.
Consumer and patient advocates oppose the idea, arguing that it would result in
watered-down coverage in states that otherwise have high benefits standards.
Georgia, for example, has stricter insurance laws than most states, requiring
insurance companies to cover a long list of medical services such as breast
cancer screening and well-child visits. Last year, Wyoming became the first
state to enact an out-of-state health insurance law. Oklahoma and Montana
lawmakers are considering similar bills, according to an article in Investor's
Business Daily.

INSURANCE EXCHANGES: Lawmakers in Colorado, Connecticut, Montana, New York,
North Dakota and Oregon are considering bills that would authorize health
insurance exchanges as required under the federal health overhaul. Every state
is required to set up a marketplace where consumers and small businesses can
compare and purchase health insurance policies. Initial costs of the project are
fully funded by Washington. So far, only California, Maryland, and West Virginia
have enacted exchange laws since the federal requirement was enacted last year.
Massachusetts, Utah and Washington State already had similar laws on the books,
according to research by the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Meanwhile in Wisconsin, Governor Scott Walker's alternative to a health
insurance exchange has opened its doors. By executive order, Walker, a
Republican, created a new Office of Free Market Health Care and has launched a
website to seek consumer suggestions on how to approach health care reform in
Wisconsin.

DRUG TESTS: Republican lawmakers in Maine have introduced proposals that would
require drug testing of all Maine residents who are enrolled in the state's
Medicaid program. The bills, which opponents say are unconstitutional, would be
similar to a proposal by Governor Rick Scott of Florida. Scott's plan would
require all potential welfare recipients to pass a drug test or forfeit cash
assistance.

BACK ON TRACK: More than two dozen states involved in federal lawsuits
challenging the constitutionality of the federal health care law have a busy
briefing schedule ahead, now that the U.S. Supreme Court has refused to
short-circuit the appeals process. On Monday, the high court denied a request by
Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli to bypass lower courts and hear the
case immediately. Now, Virginia's lawsuit will move to the 4th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in Richmond, where it is scheduled for hearings May 10.

"Health Beat" provides a quick analysis of recent health news in state
government. Click here to find Stateline's daily roundup of health care news.

-- Contact Christine Vestal at cvestal@stateline.org

To see more of the Stateline.org, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
www.stateline.org/. Copyright (c) 2011, Stateline.org Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the content
services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110427-SH-Lawmakers-eye-out-of-state-health-insurance-20110427

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                            Copyright 2011 Stateline


                              27 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday

Health insurance may be compulsory

LENGTH: 442  words


"Compulsory membership would help increase the numbers of insured people,
particularly agricultural labourers and forest workers," said Health Minister
Nguyen Thi Kim Tien.
Tien said that changing from voluntary to compulsory payments would help
increase funds which, in turn, would consolidate their stability and increasing
benefits for patients.


Tien said the health insurance fund would be further supported by plans to
increase insurance fees from the current 4.4 per cent of the minimum wage to
4.5-5 per cent or even 6 per cent. In addition, a part of examination and
treatment fees would also be used to boost the health insurance fund.
According to the draft of the revised health-insurance law, health insurance
members would be divided into five groups. This would cover labourers,
employers, a group subsidised by the social insurance agency, groups subsidised
fully and partly by the Government; and members who pay their own
health-insurance fees.
The poor, and ethnic people living in difficult areas would receive free cover.
Those slightly better off and others who contributed to the country's revolution
would have up to 95 per cent of fees paid by the Government.
Twenty of the 52 articles of the health-insurance law would be revised,
including important articles relating to insurance subjects, participation,
benefits and the fund management.
Deputies said the revised law aimed to expand health insurance cover to 70 per
cent of the population by 2015 and 80 per cent by 2020.
Chairman of the NA Law Committee Phan Trung Ly said compulsory insurance might
conflict with current legal regulations.
NA Deputy Chairman Huynh Ngoc Son also said that people had the right to decide
to buy health insurance or not. He suggested that wider participation should be
considered carefully.
According to a report from the NA Standing Committee on health insurance from
2009-12, the rate of those covered by health insurance had increased quickly
from 58.2 per cent in 2009 to 66.8 per cent in 2012.
The health insurance fund overspent nearly VND3.1trillion (US$147million) in
2009, but had a surplus of VND2.8trillion ($133million) in 2010 and nearly
VND12.9 trillion ($614million) in 2012.
Chairman of the NA Social Affairs Committee Truong Thi Mai said that many
provinces had a health-insurance rate of nearly 100 per cent of population. This
had created a fund surplus in the central region and Central Highlands.
There are also four provinces, Nam Dinh, Tay Ninh, Kien Giang and Binh Phuoc,
with a health-insurance rate of less than 50 per cent in 2012. This was because
of poor communications and inadequate awareness by local leaders.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                               December 02, 2014

Optimism High As New Law On Mutuelle Nears Enactment

BYLINE: Athan Tashobya

LENGTH: 1080 words


Agustin Ngabonziza, 40, a resident of Kimironko Sector in Gasabo District, pays
Rwf12,000 annually as premium for community-based health insurance scheme,
commonly known as Mutuelle de Sante, for his family of four.

However, Ngabonzinza says him and his family members rarely use the service when
they go to hospital because "the scheme mostly helps accident victims and
expectant mothers."

"For most other illnesses, you will be asked (by medics) to go and buy medicine
from private pharmacies, which are expensive. I think many people are
discouraged to subscribe to Mutuelle de Santé for such reasons," Ngabonziza told
The New Times last week.

Mutuelle de Santé, which provides medical cover to the majority of Rwandans,
especially rural folks, has been blighted by decreasing subscriptions and debts.

This has compelled government to devise measures to overhaul the management of
the health insurance scheme.

The scheme is one of the country's most successful social protection programmes.

One step toward restoring the scheme is the amendment of the law that governs
it, with the main objective being the mainstreaming of the scheme into Rwanda
Social Security Board (RSSB).

Parliament is primed to pass the draft law within the next three days, according
to the senatorial Standing Committee on Social Affairs, Human Rights and
Petitions.

"This law should be passed before Parliament goes into recess (by the end of
next week)," Thérèse Bishagara Kagoyire, the chairperson of the committee, said
last week.

The committee made its would-be-final amendments last week, sending the Bill
governing community-based health insurance to the Senate for final revision and
approval.

It is understood that once it is enacted into law, it will allocate tasks to
each responsible public body that is aimed to save the falling Mutuelle de Santé
subscription.

Patrick Ndimubanzi, the state minister for public health and primary health
care, said the amendment was necessitated by the need to ensure the health
scheme's financial sustainability and, institutional and organisational
arrangements.

"We need this law enacted as soon as possible so that by the next financial
year, we do not have these issues again. Subscription to Mutuelle de Santé
scheme has been fluctuating," said Ndimubanzi.

Subscription stats

An estimated 73 per cent of Rwandans subscribed to Mutuelle de Santé for their
health insurance in the last financial year, down from 80.7 per cent and 90.7
per cent in the financial years 2012/13 and 2011/12, respectively.

The New Times understands that errors and uncoordinated management, among other
issues, have characterised the health insurance scheme over the past few years.

The Director-General of RSSB, Daniel Ufitikirezi, told The New Times last week
that although there are other things that have changed regarding social security
and health insurance, the transfer of Mutuelle de Santé to RSSB [as the fund's
manager] was the main reason for the amendment of the law.

"The major reason for the amendment of this law is the transfer of Mutuelle de
Santé to RSSB, although there are other reasons as well," said Ufitikirezi.

The community-based health insurance law is being amended simultaneously with
the law governing RSSB in order to accommodate the new changes.

"There are other reasons that sparked the amendment of the two laws, but the
main one is management of Mutuelle de Santé and it's functioning," Ufitikirezi
said.

The development means that RSSB will be responsible for the financial management
of the insurance scheme, while the Ministry of Health will be in charge of
running healthcare issuance as well as determining insurance packages.

"Subscribers of the scheme have not been getting good service because of low
subscription turn-up. This has in one way or another, had a negative implication
toward services offered by health centres and district hospitals. This is
something we want to solve," he added.

A review of the health scheme conducted by the Senate committee last year
indicated that the government had accumulated over Rwf2.3 billion in arrears
owed to district hospitals and more than Rwf400 million to national referral
hospitals and health centres.

A big debt owed to district hospitals has since been cleared with the government
promising to clear the balance this financial year.

It is understood that the new law will use rather a more coherent approach to
get citizens subscribe to the affordable health care.

Currently, community-based health insurance is under a decentralised financial
management-whereby every section of Mutuelle de Santé at different health
centres across the country has its own bank accounts and signatories-making the
scheme's coordination at the national level challenging.

Ufitikirezi admitted that community-based health insurance was characterised by
lack of clear records which has been a hindrance for report consolidation. The
deployment of electronic medical records for the community-based health
insurance's beneficiaries by RSSB is also expected to trace subscribers to the
scheme.

"This will also reduce on cases of fraud in the insurance scheme," he said.

Article 12 of the draft law on community-based health insurance states that, "An
order of the Minister in charge of health insurance shall determine medical
services provided at each level of health facilities referred to."

The government's contribution to community-based health insurance scheme is
equivalent to 13 per cent of the domestic annual budget of the Ministry of
Health, as stated in Article 13 of the Bill.

The annual Mutuelle premiums range between Rwf3,000 to about Rwf7,000.

Kamonyi mayor Jacques Rutsinga told The New Times that the new law would ease
financial management of the community-based health insurance, hence relieving
local government entities of many tasks regarding the scheme.

"We are happy with the new system [that will be introduced after the law has
been enacted]. The new finance manager-RSSB has experience in this sector, and
we hope citizens will access quality services in health insurance, unlike the
current one," Rutsinga said.

Ninety-five per cent of Kamonyi District residents have already subscribed to
Mutuelle de Santé for the Financial Year 2014/15, according to the mayor.

"People have different insurance packages, and since we will be having a single
financial manager, then we expect proper coordination of insurance packages, for
quality healthcare," Rutsinga said.

editorial@newtimes.co.rw

Follow @AthanTashobya

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             March 23, 2015 Monday

New Parliament rejects draft law, health insurance bill shelved

LENGTH: 175  words


A bill forcing employers in Bahrain to provide private health insurance for
expatriate has been shelved. The draft law, originally put forward by parliament
before last year's national elections, was rejected by the Shura Council,
The fact that the Cabinet is currently working on a new national health
insurance law that is expected to provide benefits to both expatriates and
Bahrainis was the reason to reject the bill, according to council members.


Shura services committee vice-chairman Nawar Al Mahmood said
"The current health law already tackles employers' contributions to medical
expenses through work permits, so this proposed law will create unnecessary
confusion,"
"The bill is also of a discriminatory nature as it deprives Bahrainis from
services that their colleagues and their families would receive.
"The Supreme Council for Health is currently studying the national health
insurance law for expatriates and Bahrainis and has been doing numerous studies
and research to ensure that it is applicable," he added 2015 Legal Monitor
Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      July 7, 1998, Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Health insurance abuses targeted

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 06A; Pg. 06A

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: Washington


President Clinton reportedly will punish health insurance companies that deny
coverage to sick people in violation of a 1996 law by excluding them from the
lucrative insurance market for federal employees.

The law was intended to make insurance more readily available to millions of
Americans who change or lose their jobs. But federal and state officials said
they saw worrisome signs that some health insurance companies were circumventing
the law. They said some companies discouraged sales to eligible individuals,
charged very high premiums or penalized insurance agents selling coverage to
customers with pre-existing medical problems.

In a directive to be issued today, Clinton will order the Federal Office of
Personnel Management, which negotiates health benefits for federal employees and
their dependents, to use its purchasing power to ''insure that health plans come
into compliance'' with the 1996 law, The New York Times reported.

The main authors of the health insurance measure, the Kassebaum-Kennedy law,
were Nancy Kassebaum Baker, a Kansas Republican who retired from the Senate last
year, and Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.).

According to the Times: Clinton's draft order says all health plans that insure
federal employees will have to certify that they are complying with the
Kassebaum-Kennedy law in their private insurance business. ''Specifically,'' it
continues, ''I direct OPM to take all appropriate action, up to and including
termination of a participating health plan from the Federal Employees Health
Benefits Program,'' if it finds that any insurer is violating the letter or
spirit of the law.

The federal employee program is the nation's largest employer-sponsored health
insurance program, covering 9 million people through 350 health plans.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has agreed to inform the
federal government of any violations found by state officials. Glenn Pomeroy,
president of the association, said, ''We are pleased to work with the
administration in a partnership to make sure that everyone entitled to the
protections of the Kassebaum-Kennedy law gets them.''

Pomeroy, the insurance commissioner of North Dakota, said state officials would
be asked to inform the federal government whenever they imposed fines or other
penalties on insurers for violating the standards set in the 1996 law. Most
states have written the federal standards into state law.

According to the Times, Clinton intends to have the Federal Health Care
Financing Administration, which oversees state regulation of health insurance,
tell the Office of Personnel Management about any insurance companies that flout
the 1996 law in the states that have not revised their laws. Missouri,
California and Rhode Island are among the states that have not revised their
laws to conform to federal standards.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Final Today's News

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution


                              31 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Independent Record (Helena, Montana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 2, 2011 Wednesday

Insurance 'exchange' backed by health, biz interests

BYLINE: Mike Dennison, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 729 words


Feb. 02--The day after a federal judge declared the national health care reform
law unconstitutional, Montana businesses and consumer groups came to Helena
Tuesday to support a bill laying the groundwork for a key element of the law: A
state-based Internet marketplace to sell health-insurance policies.

Supporters of House Bill 124 said that even though courts could void the federal
law, Montana should start working on the health-insurance "exchange," both to
help consumers and pre-empt the feds from doing the exchange instead.

"I believe that we ought to do it come hell or high water," said Rep. Chuck
Hunter, D-Helena, the sponsor of HB124. "We still ought to build one of these in
Montana, because it makes sense to do it. ...

"It's a very modern, market-based solution ... to help consumers make
apples-to-apples comparisons among a variety of (insurance) options."

HB124, prepared by Democratic state Auditor Monica Lindeen, who regulates
insurance in the state, could face an uphill battle in the Republican-controlled
Legislature, where many members have vowed to do all they can to delay or block
implementation of the federal health care reform law.

In fact, the Senate Business Committee had been scheduled Tuesday to hear a
separate measure sponsored by Sen. Jason Priest, R-Red Lodge, to forbid
establishing an exchange and return any federal money given to Montana for that
purpose.

The hearing on Senate Bill 228 was rescheduled for Thursday after Priest became
ill Monday night and couldn't prepare for the hearing, Senate officials said.

On Tuesday, however, even opponents of federal health care reform law testified
in favor of HB124, saying it's better to have Montana prepare its own
health-insurance exchange instead of the federal government.

"This is the law of the land," said Olan Alsup, a health insurance agent from
Missoula. "You may want to derail (the law), and I hope you do, but if you don't
... you're going to be left holding the bag, (saying) we had a chance to set up
our health insurance exchange, and you didn't."

The federal law says if a state doesn't set the groundwork for an exchange by
January 2013, the federal government will create and operate the exchange in
that state.

Jesse Laslovich, chief counsel for Lindeen, said the exchange will increase
competition and "transparency" in the health-insurance market.

Laslovich also directly addressed Monday's decision by a federal judge in
Florida that declared the federal reform law unconstitutional.

"No one can predict what will happen, but I can tell you this: It's going to be
the U.S. Supreme Court that's going to decide that," he said. "When is that
going to happen? Not tomorrow. I think you're looking at years, a minimum of
two.

"In the event that the U.S. Supreme Court upholds the law, then we ought to be
prepared."

HB124 would create a Montana authority to establish the health-insurance
exchange, where individuals and small businesses could shop for health insurance
on the Internet or via a toll-free telephone number. The bill also creates a
seven-member board to oversee the exchange.

Health insurers testifying for HB124 said they'd like to amend it, including a
change that guarantees at least one insurance-industry representative on the
exchange's governing board.

Several people testified against that change, saying putting insurers on the
board is a conflict of interest.

"In order for the exchange to work for the good of Montana, it can't be run by
the same insurance industry that has made so much money (on health insurance),"
said Ernesto Casillas, who owns Chilangos, a small Mexican restaurant in Helena.
"They will say 'Trust us.' They always do. To me, it seems like putting the fox
in charge of the hens, the chicken house."

Some Republicans on the committee also questioned the cost of the exchange,
wondering how it would be financed.

Hunter said federal law requires that the exchanges pay for themselves, rather
than costing the government money. Laslovich said the money may come from
assessments on insurers.

To see more of the Independent Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.helenair.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110202-HE-Insurance-exchange-backed-by-health-biz-interests-20110202

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HE


                       Copyright 2011 Independent Record


                              32 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

$1,000 fines for health insurance offences

LENGTH: 517  words


Starting next month, the Health Insurance Commission will have the power to
impose fines up to $1,000 for both employers and insurance companies for
infractions of the health insurance law, though the accused person or company
can still opt to take the matter to court instead of paying the fines and they
will end up in the dock anyway if the matter is not resolved administratively.
However, the fines will, it is hoped, reduce overall court time for such
offences.


The recently gazetted Code of Practice for Administrative Fines for Health
Insurance Offences lays out how the Commission will apply the fines for certain
offences under the Health Insurance Law (2013). On top of a maximum of $1,000
fine, offenders could be liable to pay an additional $100 for each day the
offence continues.
Employers who fail to provide employees with health insurance coverage or with
up-to-date information about their approved insurer are among those targeted,
however, the HIC will also be able to levy fines on insurance companies for not
filing the required documents with the Commission, as well as wrongful
termination of health insurance contracts or the reduction of the level of
benefits.
The company or person accused will receive notification from the health
insurance inspector of the offence and be given 21 days to respond. If there is
no response during this time, they will receive a follow up letter which
requires a response within 10 days of receipt for the matter to be addressed
administratively. In their response, they will have an opportunity to provide
any supporting documents for further consideration in relation to the alleged
offence.  However, failure to respond within the time permitted will result in a
court proceeding.
At any stage during the investigation the accused may request in writing that
the matter be dealt with administratively and the Commission shall consider the
request.  If there is a disagreement with the facts of the case or the accused
refuses to sign the administrative fine agreement form, the matter will proceed
to court.
Health Minister Osbourne Bodden said, "The Administrative Fines System will
allow the Superintendent of Health Insurance to collect administrative fines for
violations in an expeditious manner, thereby reducing the workload of the Court.
In addition, the Superintendent of Health Insurance now has more authority to
enforce and regulate the Health Insurance Law."
Praising the work done to implement the Administrative Fines System, the
Minister added, "The Health Insurance Commission, in partnership with the
Ministry of Health and other stakeholders, have worked hard to enhance the law's
capability to meet the current needs of the sector."  Commenting on plans to
implement the new code of practice, Superintendent of Health Insurance Mervyn
Connolly stated, "Over the next few weeks the Commission will conduct a public
education campaign regarding the Code of Practice for Administrative Fines for
health insurance offences. Implementation of the Code of Practice will commence
on 1 October 2014." 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   February 12, 1996, Monday, JOURNAL EDITION

Letters;
There's right, wrong way to assure health coverage

BYLINE: Dr. Bert A. Loftman, Atlanta

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 09A

LENGTH: 861 words


The Editors: The lead editorial "Enact health reform small businesses deserve"
promotes the Kennedy-Kassebaum bipartisan bill for portability of health
insurance. No one is against this, but there is a right way and a wrong way to
assure workers of health care coverage when they change jobs.

This bill mandates that the workers' new employers cover them. The powerful
insurance lobby that is holding the bill up is actually the small group of
insurance companies that issue individual policies. As written, the bill
mandates that they also pick up these workers, which will raise insurance rates.

This bill is one more unfunded federal mandate that will increase the cost of
health care. It will cause many employers to forgo giving health insurance to
their workers and increase the number of uninsured. The problem of portability
is workers tied to their jobs with the rope of tax breaks to job-based health
insurance. This is where insurance bureaucrats tell workers what doctor they may
visit and what treatments they can have. It is known as managed care.

The government causes the portability problem by giving tax breaks to job-based
managed care. The government should solve the problem it caused by giving equal
tax breaks to all health care.

Loftman is health care reform director of Citizens for an Alternative Tax
System.

Soft on crime
John Hagan, Snellville

The Editors: Last year, the "two strikes, you're out" law was praised as the
cornerstone of Georgia's war on drugs and violent crime. Now, House Bill 1555
would give judges the option of sentencing a second- time drug dealer to as
little as 10 years instead of a mandatory life sentence. The Legislature is
going soft on criminals because so-called civil rights groups say 98 percent of
those sentenced under this statute are black. Did it ever occur to anyone that
98 percent of the criminals might be black?

Drug dealers are the worst criminal leeches, not because of their color but
because they prey on and destroy the most vulnerable and precious segment of
society, our children.

Lawsuit lottery
Joe Eifrid, Decatur

The Editors: I am disappointed that an Atlanta couple which last year won back
their infant son from the Tennessee Department of Human Services has hired
Johnnie Cochran to represent them in a possible lawsuit.

Unfortunate errors were made, but only by people who had the best interest of
the child at heart. There was no motivation for them to do otherwise. The
scenario I see is the defendants will settle for a large sum of money, this
couple will have been enriched by the lawsuit lottery, and more people will be
reluctant to report suspected child abuse under threat of a lawsuit.

Is it not better to err to the benefit of the child than to let suspected child
abuse go unreported?

Represent people
Bette Goggans, Smyrna

The Editors: I am so tired of our legislators not doing what they are elected to
do: pass good bills that the majority of people want passed. We need the death
penalty carried out in a timely manner. The six legislators who voted against
Rep. Kip Klein's (R-Marietta) bill to ensure that lone holdouts on a jury do not
stand in the way of a death penalty verdict are not properly representing the
people of Georgia.

A cheap shot
Joe Young Chennault, Decatur

The Editors: More often than not, the columns of Rheta Grimsley Johnson offer
readers refreshing vignettes of the South and its people told in a style that
reflects an uncommon talent and commands sustained interest. The exceptions are
those occasional outbursts of partisanship, such as her column "Gingrich Earth
pleas not very convincing," when her usual candor and fairness of judgment are
displaced by an ungracious malevolence.

That is the kindest description of her gratuitous cheap shot at former President
Ronald Reagan. (Johnson wrote of Reagan singing "We Shall Overcome" with Coretta
Scott King and other civil rights leaders and said he "didn't seem to know the
words.")

Speaker Newt Gingrich is fully capable of defending himself. Poor, terminally
ill Reagan is not. For shame.

Reverse trend
Betty Burton, Tucker

The Editors: I would not ride a motorcycle without a suit of armor; I'm
considering one for driving my car in this area. However, I have no problem with
those who choose to ride without a helmet, provided they will be fully
responsible for their medical bills when they are paralyzed or brain-dead from
an accident. Ironically, they may not be at fault, but they usually sustain
serious injuries.

We have become so obsessed with individual rights that we seem willing to
sacrifice the rights of the majority. This trend should be reversed.

Pay own way
Bill Williams, Woodstock

The Editors: Medicaid and welfare are going to be squeezed, if the states get
their way on funding from the federal government. Why not cut federal taxes the
amount of the cost of welfare and Medicaid? Then have the states put into place
what they want to fund by raising their own taxes. This will cut out the
middleman and many of those wasted tax dollars going to pay for federal
salaries.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution


                              34 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   February 25, 1988, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

OHIP should cover mate of lesbian, lawyer says

BYLINE: By Peter Edwards Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 414 words


   Lesbian couples deserve the same health care coverage as heterosexual common-
law couples, the Supreme Court of Ontario was told yesterday.

The provincial government routinely grants Ontario Health Insurance Plan
coverage to the common-law spouses and children of heterosexuals, argued Howard
Goldblatt, lawyer for Metro librarian Karen Andrews and the Canadian Union of
Public Employees.

Goldblatt added that Andrews' employer, the Toronto Public Library Board, is
willing to pay OHIP premiums for Andrews' live-in lover of 10 years. Under terms
of the board's collective argeement with CUPE Local 1996, it routinely pays for
premiums of common-law spouses of heterosexual workers, he said.

Partner divorced

But the Ministry of Health refuses to recognize the board's application because
Andrews and her partner are lesbians, Goldblatt told Justice Nicholas McRae.

Andrews' partner, who is divorced, has two children and they're also denied OHIP
benefits under Andrews' health care plan because of the couple's lifestyle, he
said.

Goldblatt argued the Health Insurance Act is designed to provide universal
health coverage.

The right to equal treatment has triggered her three-year court fight, Andrews
said in an interview.

"I have jeopardized my career by coming forward and asking for equal treatment,"
she said. "It's been utter chaos getting her covered, and straight
(heterosexual) people don't have to put up with that."

Her partner, a 42-year-old social work student, is her spouse and her dependent,
Andrews said.

Equal treatment

The province's refusal to grant her equal treatment with heterosexuals in
common-law relationships is an attack on the dignity of homosexuals, she said.

Goldblatt said the province's stance runs counter to the Ontario Human Rights
Code and the federal Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which state a person can't
be discriminated against because of sexual orientation.

Apart from their sexual orientation, Andrews and her partner are like any other
couple, Goldblatt said. They share joint bank accounts, are joint tenants of the
same house, are each other's sole domestic and sexual partners, and have named
each other as beneficiaries in their wills, Goldblatt told the court.

"Both consider themselves and hold themselves out to the public as each other's
spouse," he said.

The case is considered an important test of homosexual rights for the Charter of
Rights and the Ontario Human Rights Code.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo Karen Andrews

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              35 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           February 15, 2014 Saturday

New Dubai healthcare law takes effect today

LENGTH: 459  words


The new health insurance law that was launched by the Dubai Health Authority
(DHA) will take effect from Feb.15. The law was approved by His Highness Sheikh
Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister and Ruler of
Dubai, last November, and is expected to cover over 3 million beneficiaries,
including nationals and residents with Dubai visas. Such a law is fundamental to
ensuring the smooth delivery of essential health insurance to everyone living in
the emirate, according to Engineer Essa Al Maidoor, Director-General of the DHA.
This stems from the government's fundamental goal to provide happiness and
security to the people of the country and is in line with Dubai Strategic Plan
2015.


The law stipulates a number of regulatory tools to ensure two fundamental goals:
universal access to quality health care services and development of the
competent health insurance system that is dynamic in nature, attracts investment
and quality players that will further help drive the emirate's booming economy."
Al Maidoor added.
Dr Haider Al Yousuf noted that the authority works out to about 1.5 per cent of
a company's payroll budget to provide health cover to its employees. It is the
responsibility of companies to provide for their expatriate employees' health
care, he said.
Dr Haidar Al Yousuf, Director of Health Funding at the DHA said that the law
stipulates the roles and responsibilities of all the stakeholders involved with
the provision and implementation of health insurance.
"In the case of UAE nationals, they shall receive insurance cards to replace the
existing Dubai Health Authority (DHA) health cards that provides coverage for
healthcare services and preventive care. They shall continue to have access to
all current healthcare services provided by the DHA and various private
healthcare providers. For residents, the health insurance law sets forth the
employer's responsibility to secure insurance to cover the employees he
sponsors. This applies to domestic employees as well, all of whom will receive
essential health coverage and the cost will have to be borne by the employer.
Several health insurance packages will be available for employers and while
essential cover is a mandatory requirement as per the law, employers are highly
encouraged to provide enhanced health coverage to their employees."
Meanwhile, the health insurance packages will be available to all employers in
Dubai, whereas the basic health insurance package will cost between Dhs500-700
per year. It will provide basic health services and surgeries, but will not
cover preventive care

Implementing the healthcare insurance coverage will start gradually in 2014 to
be rolled out in phases until mid-2016.© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday

What does health-care law mean for you?

BYLINE: By HOLLY DOLAN

SECTION: VALLEY LIFE

LENGTH: 526 words


Unless you've been living in a sealed bunker deep in the Earth for the past four
years, you've probably heard about the new health-care law, which goes by
different names: the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, health-care
reform, or Obamacare.

Behind all the media madness in the coverage of the law, you are probably also a
bit confused. Don't worry, you are not alone!

So what does this new law mean for you, the health consumer? The best way to
understand the new law is to think of it in three basic parts: 1. basic consumer
protections; 2. new health-insurance marketplaces; and 3. an expansion of
Medicaid.

Basic patient protections:

Since the law was passed in 2010, basic consumer protections to address common
consumer problems have been rolling out slowly. These include provisions, such
as insurance companies can no longer:

turn people down because of a medical condition (pre-existing condition).

have a maximum cap on how much the policy will spend on you when you get sick.

cancel your policy when you get sick.

The law requires that policies carry better coverage by including "essential
health benefits" (10 areas of health care that need to be covered). For example,
preventive procedures such as colonoscopies, mammograms and pap tests must be
covered by your insurance policy.

The new law also requires that an insurance company spend more of your money on
your health care and not administrative costs. Under the law, there are also
limits on how much the insurance company can raise your rates from year to year.

Finally, in order to close one of the largest gaps of uninsured individuals, the
law states that young people can stay on their parents' insurance until the age
of 26.

Health insurance marketplaces

There are many people who are unable to get health insurance because their job
does not offer it or they are shut out because the insurance is too expensive.

In October 2013, Pennsylvania will open a new health-insurance marketplace,
where consumers who are unable to get insurance through an employer can shop
online. There will be a variety of plans available that have to meet the basic
patient protections. Subsidies will be available for individuals who meet income
guidelines, and a marketplace will be developed for small businesses.

Expansion of Medicaid

It is common for many working people who are living in poverty to not have
health insurance. Under the new law, Medicaid (the health-insurance program for
the poor, disabled and elderly) can accept more people.

The new law will now allow men to be eligible for Medicaid. At the present time,
Gov. Tom Corbett has not decided if Pennsylvania will adopt the Medicaid
expansion.

For 40 years, Lebanon Family Health Services has been offering educational
programs to assist our community with understanding important health
information. If your business or workplace is interested in learning more, we
offer "Lunchbox Lessons" on the new health-care law, as well as many other
topics.

Visit our website for more details at www.lebanonfamilyhealth.org.

Holly Dolan is director of education and outreach for Lebanon Family Health
Services. Contact her at 717-273-6741, ext. 310.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         Cheney Free Press (Washington)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                January 24, 2013

Bills ignite debate on health insurance abortion requirement

BYLINE: Cheney Free Press staff

LENGTH: 608  words


Two bills introduced early in this legislative session would require any
health-insurance plan in Washington state that covers maternal care to also
cover abortions.

HB 1044 and SB 5009, collectively known as the Reproductive Parity Act, would
reinforce existing state law that requires insurance companies to cover abortion
except in cases in which the insurance provider is explicitly religious.

Rep. Eileen Cody (D-34th District, Seattle), one of the House bill's primary
sponsors, claims the legislation would help women maintain their current
coverage once state health insurance exchanges open in Oct. 2013.

"The main reason is to insure that Washington women can continue to make their
choices with their family and their doctor," Cody said, speaking for her 41
co-sponsors.

Sen. Steve Hobbs (D-44th District, Lake Stevens) has sponsored the Senate
version along with 22 co-signers. "It's imperative that we create this
protection for women in order to ensure their constitutional right of choice and
more importantly, for their health," Hobbs said.

"We have seen in some states an erosion of women's health and choice and what we
want to ensure is that there's a firewall against that erosion."

Health insurance exchanges, which are intended to help individuals and
businesses compare and buy insurance policies, are part of the federal Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in
March 2010. The exchanges would offer subsidized health insurance plans to those
who are eligible.

Cody said federal funds cannot, by law, be used for abortions. Women who buy
subsidized health insurance under the new federal health care law would need to
pay their insurers separately for abortion coverage, and women's-health
advocates such as Cody are unsure how health insurance companies may react to
the increased bureaucracy and overhead from such a requirement.

"As we implement the federal health care reform law," Cody said, "we need to
ensure that we have no erosion of our existing laws in Washington that protect
women's reproductive rights."

The RPA, according to supporters, would prevent the need for a separate abortion
health insurance payment that could make access to the procedure more difficult,
particularly for low-income women.

Opponents of the bill, such as Joseph Backholm, director of the Family Policy
Institute of Washington, say the bill is unnecessary at best and at worst forces
abortion opponents to pay for coverage they find objectionable.

"It addresses a problem that doesn't exist, in that any woman who wants abortion
insurance in Washington can get it," Backholm said.

"It denies the rights of individuals," he said, referring to those who object to
funding abortions.

Gov. Jay Inslee expressed his support for the Reproductive Parity Act Wednesday
afternoon during his inaugural address:

"Washington women need the freedom and privacy to make the health care decisions
that are best for themselves and their families. That's why I look forward to
the Legislature sending the Reproductive Parity Act to my desk, which I will
sign," he said.

Reactions from legislators were sharply divided.

Inslee's fellow Democrats applauded the governor's declaration while Republicans
expressed concerns that it may jeopardize federal health care funding many say
the state desperately needs, and that it distracts from more pressing issues
such as job creation.

"We have to look at that economic issue as well, not just the emotional issue,"
Sen. Mark Schoesler (R-9th District, Ritzville) said.

An earlier version of the bill passed the state House of Representatives last
year but was held up in the Senate.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Local Government

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CFP

                      Copyright 2013 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                        Copyright 2013 Cheney Free Press


                              38 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                     The Dispatch (Eatonville, Washington)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                January 30, 2013

Abortion backers want to save insurance coverage

BYLINE: The Dispatch staff

LENGTH: 592  words


Two bills introduced early in this legislative session would require any
health-insurance plan in Washington that covers maternal care to also cover
abortions.

HB 1044 and SB 5009, collectively known as the Reproductive Parity Act (RPA),
would reinforce existing state law that requires insurance companies to cover
abortion except in cases in which me insurance provider is explicitly religious.

Rep. Eileen Cody (D-34th District Seattle), one of the House bill's primary
sponsors, claims the legislation would help women maintain their current
coverage once state health insurance exchanges open in October.

"The main reason is to insure that Washington women can continue to make their
choices with their family and their doctor," said Cody, speaking for her 41
co-sponsors.

The Senate version is sponsored by Sen. Steve Hobbs (D-44th District/Lake
Stevens) with 22 co-signers.

"It's imperative mat we create this protection for women in order to ensure
their constitutional right of choice and more importantly, for their health,"
said Hobbs. "We have seen in some states an erosion of women's health and choice
and what we want to ensure is that there's a firewall against that erosion."

Health insurance exchanges, which are intended to help individuals and
businesses compare and buy insurance policies, are part of the federal Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in
March 2010. The exchanges would offer subsidized health insurance plans to those
who are eligible.

Federal funds, says Cody, cannot by law be used for abortions. Women who buy
subsidized healm insurance under the hew federal healthcare law would need to
pay their insurers separately for abortion coverage, and women's-health
advocates such as Cody are unsure how health-insurance companies may react to
the increased bureaucracy and overhead from such a requirement.

"As we implement the federal health care reform law," said Cody, "we need to
ensure that we have no erosion of our existing laws in Washington that protect
women's reproductive rights."

The RPA, according to supporters, would prevent the need for a separate abortion
health insurance payment that could make access to the procedure more difficult,
particularly for low-income women.

Opponents of the bill, such as Joseph Backholm, director of the Family Policy
Institute of Washington, say the bill is unnecessary at best and at worst forces
abortion opponents to pay for coverage they find objectionable.

"It addresses a problem that doesn't exist, in that any woman who wants abortion
insurance in Washington can get it," said Backholm

"It denies the rights of individuals," he added, referring to those who object
to funding abortions.

Governor Jay Inslee expressed his support for the RPA during his inaugural
address Jan. 16:

"Washington women need the freedom and privacy to make the healthcare decisions
that are best for themselves and meir families. That's why I look forward to the
Legislature sending the Reproductive Parity Act to my desk, which I will sign,"
Inslee promised.

Reactions from legislators were sharply divided following Inslee's remarks. The
governor's fellow Democrats applauded his declaration, while Republicans
expressed concerns mat the RPA may jeopardize federal healthcare funding mat
many say the state desperately needs. Republicans also said the issue distracts
from more pressing issues such as job creation.

"We have to look at that economic issue as well, not just the emotional issue,"
said Sen. Mark Schoesler (R-9th District/Ritz-ville).

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Local Government

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EVD

                      Copyright 2013 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                     Copyright 2013 The Dispatch-Eatonville


                              39 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                              April 1, 2012 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 METRO EDITION

Analysts don't predict doomsday for insurers

BYLINE: JIM SPENCER; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 869 words



HIGHLIGHT: UnitedHealth's diversified businesses make it less vulnerable if the
court strikes down individual mandate.


WASHINGTON - Within the debate over the law that overhauls the U.S. health care
system, speculation swirls about a doomsday scenario for the health insurance
industry.

As the Supreme Court pondered the legal merits of the Affordable Care Act last
week, Justice Antonin Scalia mentioned the possibility of "bankrupting insurance
companies and the whole system ... tumbling down."

Outside the court, Rep. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota whipped up a crowd of Tea
Party protesters, predicting "chaos on an economic spectacle like we have never
seen."

The doomsday theory plays out like this: The high court eliminates only the
individual mandate within the health care law that requires all Americans to buy
insurance or face a fine. Health insurance companies then would have to follow
the rest of the law and cover millions more Americans with pre-existing
conditions, among other cost burdens -- without the benefit of adding millions
of healthy people that the individual mandate requires.

Those fearing such a scenario say it would cripple the health insurance
industry. But few, if any, financial analysts or health economists share the
same level of concern.

"It's not like an apocalyptic disaster," said Chuck Phelps, a retired professor
of health economics at the University of Rochester. "The people harmed are not
the insurance companies. The people harmed are relatively healthy people who
want to buy individual policies. They won't be able to."

The health insurance industry has asked the Supreme Court to strike down certain
patient protections if the justices take away the individual mandate. The
industry made the request because the number of uninsured did not decline in
states that have tried to increase coverage without mandates, according to the
America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group representing companies covering
200 million Americans.

Still, the industry never predicted bankruptcies if the high court strikes down
the individual mandate and nothing else. That's because individual health care
policies represent just 5 percent of the health insurance industry's business,
and companies are only obliged to issue policies to those who pay premiums.

Health insurance companies, including Minnesota-based UnitedHealth Group, the
nation's largest health insurer by sales, agreed to support health reform law
with the understanding that they could tap a huge new market of "young
invincibles" -- those who will cost much less to treat than they pay in
premiums. In exchange, insurers agreed to cover people with preexisting medical
conditions and to set premiums based on regional medical costs and not on
individual health histories or age.

If health insurance companies lost that new market, they would face a
"manageable" 10 percent drop in pretax income, not bankruptcy, said Ana Gupte, a
health insurance specialist with Bernstein Research. Among the country's biggest
health insurers, UnitedHealth Group is in the best position to absorb any
Supreme Court decision on health care reform, Gupte said.

"Their exposure to the employer and individual insurance markets is less than a
third of their business and getting smaller," she explained.

Roughly 30 percent of UnitedHealth's business is handling Medicare policies for
the government, Gupte noted. Another 10 percent is in Medicaid, publicly paid
health insurance for the poor. Managing plans for self-insured companies
accounts for 10 percent. And UnitedHealth's expanding medical information
technology wing, Optima, totals 20 percent.

"They are putting more capital into Optima," Gupte said. "That means they are
pushing their independent, unregulated business."

UnitedHealth would face "challenges" without the individual mandate, explained
Jason Gurda, an analyst with Leerink Swann, a health care-focused investment
bank. But "more diversified providers are not as exposed."

UnitedHealth declined an interview request to discuss ways the company has
protected itself by spreading risks. "UnitedHealth Group is focused on
effectively implementing existing law," spokesman Matt Stearns said in a
statement. "If the law is changed, we will make the appropriate adjustments at
that time."

While UnitedHealth has diversified its business interests beyond other health
insurance giants, such as Humana, WellPoint and Cigna, those companies are still
not in danger of going under, no matter how the Supreme Court rules, analysts
say.

Health insurance companies were making record profits before the health care law
by denying coverage for pre-existing conditions, selectively choosing
individuals to cover and by setting premiums based on personal health histories
and ages, Phelps said. If the Supreme Court overturns the entire reform, he
added, insurance companies remain in that highly profitable system.

Meanwhile, if only the individual mandate goes away, health care reform's goal
of providing affordable medical treatment for many of America's 40 million
uninsured citizens goes unresolved. Costs of their care continues to get passed
on to those with insurance in the form of higher premiums, Phelps said.

"People who don't have insurance now" will be hurt the most, he said. "The
insurance companies will be fine."

Jim Spencer - 202-408-2752

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 8, 2012



CORRECTION: This story misidentified UnitedHealth Group's medical information
technology business. It is called Optum.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   financeME

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

The Dubai Health Authority Health Insurance Law

LENGTH: 405  words


Approved by His Highness Sheikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President
and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Dubai Health Insurance Law No.
11 of 2013 came into effect on 1 January 2014. The aim of the Law is to create
an integrated health system for Dubai, based on a sustainable financing system
that supports the competiveness of Dubai and protects the rights of all
participants. The Law phases in the requirement for all employers in Dubai to
have in place compliant health insurance cover for their employees. It applies
to all participants in the health insurance arena including health service
providers, insurance companies, insurance brokers, claims administration
companies, employers, sponsors and beneficiaries.

Under the Law, employers are required to put in place health cover for all of
their staff. The health insurance cover must meet the minimum requirements of
the Law. The Law stipulates that employers cannot simply pass on the cost of the
cover to their staff and the Dubai Health Authority (DHA) has made clear that it
will treat any attempts to do so seriously. As a means of ensuring cover is put
in place and maintained, the renewal of an employee's visa will be subject to
the employee having health insurance in place. Employers have to provide a basic
health coverage with an annual premium anywhere between Dh500-Dh700 and a
maximum insurance cover per person per annum of Dh150,000.

Under the Law employers are not required to provide coverage for the dependents
of their employees. Instead, cover for dependents falls to the sponsor
themselves. So where a dependent does not receive cover from an employer, it
becomes the responsibility of the sponsor to put in place and maintain the
required cover (though this does not apply until July 2016).

Failure by employers to provide insurance carries fines of between Dh500 and
Dh150,000. Repeated breaches carry a maximum fine of Dh 500,000.

WHEN WILL THE LAW BEGIN TO APPLY?

Whilst the Law came into effect on 1 January 2014, the provision of health
insurance cover will only become mandatory for:

- Companies with more than 1,000 employees, from 31 October 2014;
- Companies with 100-999 employees, from 31 July 2015; and
- Companies with less than 100 employees, from 30 June 2016.

The roll out phase also provides that dependents of sponsors, including domestic
workers, must also be covered for the basic health coverage by 30 June 2016.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 881


                          Copyright 2015 CPI Financial
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 20, 2017 Monday

Washington: Rep. Gosar Makes the Case for Competitive Health Insurance Reform
Act before House Judiciary Committee

LENGTH: 553  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the MP Paul A. Gosar has issued the following news
release:



 Today, U.S. Congressman Paul A. Gosar, D.D.S. (AZ-04) released the following
excerpt from his testimony before the House Judiciary's Subcommittee on
Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law during a legislative hearing on
his bill, H.R. 372, the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017:





 "As Congress once again faces the preeminent task of repairing our nation's
health care system, first and foremost, we must establish the proper foundation
for a competitive and consumer-driven health insurance marketplace. The
Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017 will restore the application of
federal anti-trust and competition laws to the health insurance industry.



 "Ending this special-interest exemption is the essential first step to broader
healthcare reform. Popular cost-reducing reform priorities - such as selling
insurance across state lines and developing diverse consumer-driven plans - are
predicated on the robust competitive markets this bill will ensure.



 "As a healthcare provider for more than 25 years, I understand first-hand the
importance of a competitive and dynamic health insurance market. Patients,
doctors, and hospitals alike benefit when health insurers compete to provide a
variety quality coverage options.



 "Imagine what could exist when we put the patient first and demand that health
insurance companies compete for their business. This market should be
patient-centric, provide a variety of affordable, quality options, and empower
patient involvement and accountability.



 "The passage of the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act into law is an
important first step towards increasing competition in health insurance markets,
and will assist with setting the foundation for real, competitive, and
patient-centered healthcare reform."



 Background:



 Congressman Gosar's full statement from today's hearing can be found HERE.



 Video of today's hearing can be found HERE.



 The full text of the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017 can be
found HERE.



 The Congressman's legislation is endorsed by: American Dental Association,
American Optometric Association and American Association of Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgeons.



 The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017 amends a section of the
McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945, which exempted the insurance industry from the
Sherman Act and the Clayton Act - acts that have the purpose of ensuring fair
competition.  This broad exemption was intended to assist newly established
insurance companies set sustainable premiums by permitting data sharing between
insurance companies. These antiquated exemptions are no longer necessary. There
is no reason in law, policy, or logic for the insurance industry to have special
exemptions that are different from all other businesses in the United States.



 Repeal of the specific sections of the McCarran-Ferguson Act which apply to
health insurance has bipartisan support. A form of this legislation passed the
Democratic-controlled House during the 111th Congress 406 - 19 (Roll no. 64) and
passed the Republican-led House in the 112th Congress by a voice vote.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            September 8, 2013 Sunday

Affordable care act;
Professors: Law needs amended

BYLINE: Dean Olsen Staff Writerdean.olsen@sjr.com

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 912 words


Some employers may actively discourage their workers from applying for federally
subsidized health insurance through the Affordable Care Act as a way of avoiding
the law 's financial penalties on employers in 2015 and beyond.

Such harassment or threats, forecasted by two law professors at the University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, aren't necessarily illegal but are among the
"unintended consequences" of the ACA that members of Congress should consider
fixing by amending the law, one of the professors said last week.

"They should be looking at it," Peter Molk said. "We don't know actually how
people are going to behave, but there's this financial incentive for employers
to behave in a particular way."

Spokeswomen for business groups in Illinois said Molk and his fellow law school
faculty colleague, Suja Thomas, may be overreacting in the paper the professors
co-wrote for Cornell Law Review Online (http://bit.ly/ACApaper).

"They bring up valid points, but this is a solution in search of a problem,"
said Laura Minzer, Springfield-based executive director of the Illinois Chamber
of Commerce's Healthcare Council.

"Certainly, there are 'bad actors' out there that might take that route," she
said.

But she said Molk and Thomas describe "worst-case scenarios" that may rarely
occur.

Kim Clarke Maisch, the Springfield-based Illinois state director of the National
Federation of Independent Business, agreed, though she added, "Harassment of any
kind is never acceptable in the workplace.

"There are a lot of aspects of Obamacare that are causing fits on both sides,"
Maisch said. "That's what happens when government intervenes in the marketplace
like this."

Covering the gaps

Employers have more pressing things on their minds right now, such as figuring
out how the ACA's many regulations apply to them and how to afford health
insurance for their employees and continue to make a profit, Minzer said.

It will be difficult to get a divided Congress to agree to any tweaks in the
health-care law in the near future, she added.

Many key provisions in the 2010 law take effect in 2014, when coverage offered
through government-supervised, online marketplaces called health-insurance
exchanges begins.

Enrollment in Illinois' exchange - through an online portal and with the help of
phone banks and in-person counselors in a state-federal partnership - is
expected to begin Oct. 1.

The ACA's individual mandate that most Americans have health insurance or face
tax penalties begins in 2014, as do new rules that prohibit health insurance
from being denied or premiums being boosted because of "pre-existing
conditions."

The Obama administration delayed fines associated with the law's employer
mandate until 2015.

Molk and Thomas write that "given the gaps in protection ... retaliation and
harassment under the ACA" are likely, and "additional protection is warranted."

Molk said he didn't know whether state legislation would adequately address the
gaps.

Beginning in 2015, employers with the equivalent of 50 or more full-time
employees face potential $3,000 annual fines for each employee who goes into an
exchange and receives a federal subsidy to reduce the cost of coverage if the
employer-sponsored coverage is deemed inadequate or too expensive.

"Inadequate" means the insurance doesn't pay at least 60 percent of coverage of
health-care expenses.

"Too expensive" means the employee premium for individual coverage exceeds 9.5
percent of the employee's gross household income.

Expand protection

An employer of 50 or more that fails to offer any health insurance also can be
fined $2,000 per employee if any of its employees receives subsidized insurance
through a state exchange.

The law "pushes employers both to minimize the number of employees who take
employer-provided health insurance and, if the health insurance is inadequate,
to minimize the number of employees obtaining subsidized insurance through an
exchange," the professors write in their law review paper. "Such employer
'encouragement' may not be overt or direct."

The ACA and another federal law allow an employee to sue an employer for damages
if the employee is fired for accepting coverage offered by the employer as part
of the health-care law or seeks subsidized coverage through a health-insurance
exchange.

But there are gray areas not addressed by existing law, Molk said.

"One can imagine an employer warning its employees of impending job losses if
too many employees sign up for an employer's insurance or individual subsidized
insurance," the professors write.

Employers also could poll prospective or current employees about their
intentions to seek health insurance from the employer or from an exchange, then
make hiring decisions based on that information or pressure employees to seek
alternative coverage, Molk said.

Molk and Thomas call for "expanded employee protection" in their paper,
including protections that could prevent employers from downsizing workforces or
reducing the number of full-time employees "for the sole purpose of avoiding
health coverage under the ACA."

But they note that federal law allows an employer to be viewed as acting
properly "if it acts for the purpose of a 'fundamental business decision.' This
type of protection that gives the employer an ability to make sound business
decisions but protects employees against nefarious motivations would be ideal."

Dean Olsen can be reached at 788-1543. Follow him at twitter.com/DeanOlsenSJR.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

ENACTMENT OF HEALTH INSURANCE LAW EXTENDED

LENGTH: 294  words


His Highness Shaikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime
Minister of UAE and Ruler of Dubai in order to streamline health care insurance
laws within Dubai Healthcare City (DHCC), has issued Resolution No (8) of 2015
extending the implementation of Dubai's Health Insurance Law on health-care
service providers licensed within DHCC.


The resolution defines the DHCC authority as the government entity responsible
for the implementation of Law No (11) of 2013 pertaining to health insurance on
the health-care facilities registered in Dubai Healthcare City. Pursuant to the
new resolution, the DHCC authority is solely authorized to implement the health
insurance Law on health-care service providers within DHCC, and the authority is
competent to license service providers to provide health-care services to
beneficiaries of health insurance, approving prices for health-care services and
monitoring their adherence to the approved prices.
The resolution also authorises the DHCC authority to oversee commitment of
service providers to the Procedural Notice issued pursuant to the Health
Insurance Law (No 11 of 2013) and other pertaining resolutions. The DHCC
authority may also enforce penalties prescribed by law on violators, receive and
investigate complaints and take the required procedures on the lodged
complaints.
Employees of Dubai Healthcare City authority appointed by a resolution from the
Chairman of DHCC Authority, or by whoever the chairman may delegate, enjoy the
powers of judicial officers in implicating any violations against the articles
of Law No (11) of 2013. The chairman of the DHCC authority is empowered to issue
any resolutions required to assure accurate implementation of this resolution.
2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

state retirees;
Court hears case on premiums

BYLINE: Doug Finke State Capitol Bureaudoug.finke@sjr.com

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 566 words


Attorneys for some retired state workers argued before the Illinois Supreme
Court on Wednesday that the retirees should not be required to pay premiums for
their state-subsidized health insurance.

However, attorneys for the state continued to maintain that health insurance
benefits are separate from pension benefits and thus not protected by the state
Constitution.

Earlier this year, Sangamon County Judge Steven Nardulli dismissed several
lawsuits filed challenging the health insurance premiums, ruling that "health
insurance benefits are not guaranteed pension benefits protected by the Pension
Protection Clause."

Edward Kionka, one of two attorneys representing retired state workers,
challenged that and said the pension protection clause of the Constitution
contains the phrase "the benefits of which shall not be diminished."

"Do an Internet search for jobs with benefits," Kionka told the court. "Everyone
know that means such things as health insurance. The term benefits is much
broader than pensions."

He said the General Assembly established health insurance as a contractual right
when it passed a law in the late 1990s, establishing a sliding scale for retiree
health insurance premiums. That scale provided for premium-free health insurance
for people who retired with 20 or more years of service.

Assistant Attorney General Richard Huszagh said nothing in that law established
retiree health insurance as a contractual right.

"There is nothing in the group insurance act that satisfies the strict standards
to establish a contractual status for those provisions," he argued. "What the
plaintiffs are asking the court to do is give the pension clause a new and
expansive interpretation."

In response to questions from justices, Huszagh acknowledged that if the state
wins the case, there would be nothing to stop it from greatly increasing retiree
premiums in the future. He also said the early retirement law that lured
thousands of workers into retirement - possibly with the belief they would
receive free health insurance - never made any mention of insurance benefits.

Stephen Yokich, another lawyer representing the retirees, said the law
establishing health insurance premiums for retirees could impair collective
bargaining agreements. Health insurance coverage is usually part of state union
contracts.

The Supreme Court will issue its ruling later.

The lawsuits stem from a bill passed by the General Assembly in 2012 authorizing
the state to begin collecting premiums from retirees for their state-subsidized
health insurance. Prior to that, a state worker who retired with 20 or more
years of service was entitled to premium-free health insurance, although they
had to cover certain out-of-pocket expenses like co-payments.

The state didn't start collecting premiums immediately. Instead, it waited until
a new labor agreement was reached with the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees union. The contract was settled earlier this year.

As part of the agreement, retirees covered by Medicare would start paying 1
percent of their retirement benefit for their state health insurance. Those not
covered by Medicare would pay 2 percent. The premiums went into effect July 1.
Although the state is collecting the premiums, the money is currently being held
in a special account until the lawsuit is resolved.

Doug Finke can be reached at 788-1527.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 566 words


Attorneys for some retired state workers argued before the Illinois Supreme
Court on Wednesday that the retirees should not be required to pay premiums for
their state-subsidized health insurance.

However, attorneys for the state continued to maintain that health insurance
benefits are separate from pension benefits and thus not protected by the state
Constitution.

Earlier this year, Sangamon County Judge Steven Nardulli dismissed several
lawsuits filed challenging the health insurance premiums, ruling that "health
insurance benefits are not guaranteed pension benefits protected by the Pension
Protection Clause."

Edward Kionka, one of two attorneys representing retired state workers,
challenged that and said the pension protection clause of the Constitution
contains the phrase "the benefits of which shall not be diminished."

"Do an Internet search for jobs with benefits," Kionka told the court. "Everyone
know that means such things as health insurance. The term benefits is much
broader than pensions."

He said the General Assembly established health insurance as a contractual right
when it passed a law in the late 1990s, establishing a sliding scale for retiree
health insurance premiums. That scale provided for premium-free health insurance
for people who retired with 20 or more years of service.

Assistant Attorney General Richard Huszagh said nothing in that law established
retiree health insurance as a contractual right.

"There is nothing in the group insurance act that satisfies the strict standards
to establish a contractual status for those provisions," he argued. "What the
plaintiffs are asking the court to do is give the pension clause a new and
expansive interpretation."

In response to questions from justices, Huszagh acknowledged that if the state
wins the case, there would be nothing to stop it from greatly increasing retiree
premiums in the future. He also said the early retirement law that lured
thousands of workers into retirement - possibly with the belief they would
receive free health insurance - never made any mention of insurance benefits.

Stephen Yokich, another lawyer representing the retirees, said the law
establishing health insurance premiums for retirees could impair collective
bargaining agreements. Health insurance coverage is usually part of state union
contracts.

The Supreme Court will issue its ruling later.

The lawsuits stem from a bill passed by the General Assembly in 2012 authorizing
the state to begin collecting premiums from retirees for their state-subsidized
health insurance. Prior to that, a state worker who retired with 20 or more
years of service was entitled to premium-free health insurance, although they
had to cover certain out-of-pocket expenses like co-payments.

The state didn't start collecting premiums immediately. Instead, it waited until
a new labor agreement was reached with the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees union. The contract was settled earlier this year.

As part of the agreement, retirees covered by Medicare would start paying 1
percent of their retirement benefit for their state health insurance. Those not
covered by Medicare would pay 2 percent. The premiums went into effect July 1.
Although the state is collecting the premiums, the money is currently being held
in a special account until the lawsuit is resolved.

Doug Finke can be reached at 788-1527.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 20, 2015 Thursday

Health Insurance Law Dubai & Abu Dhabi: Employer Responsibilities and Duties

LENGTH: 690  words

DATELINE: New York


Legal Resources Association has issued the following news release:

Prior to the growth of the foreign workforce in the United Arab Emirates at the
beginning of the millennium, an employer was only required to pay a few hundred
dirhams to obtain a health card for its employees to be treated at medical
facilities.

With the increase in demand for the provision of health services due to the
surge in population, which has to be covered by public funds, the authorities
aimed to further regulate the healthcare sector and ensure its availability to
residents and to the local population.

The healthcare sector in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi was regulated and operated by
the Ministry of Health until 1999, when it was replaced by the General Authority
for Support and Development of Healthcare (GASDH). The aim of establishing GASDH
was to support the Ministry of Health within the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. Later the
name was changed to "General Authority for Health Services" (GAHS), which was
subsequently changed to the Health Authority Abu Dhabi (HAAD).

In 2007, the Emirate of Dubai enacted Law no. 13 for Year 2007 establishing
Dubai Health Authority (DHA) with a "vision to include strategic oversight for
the complete health sector in Dubai and enhance private sector engagement."

The Emirate of Abu Dhabi was the first to address the issue of health insurance
and enacted Law 23 for Year 2005, the Health Insurance Law of September 2005
which came into force four months later as stated in Article 27 of the said law.
Abu Dhabi was followed by the Emirate of Dubai when in 2013, the Health
Insurance Law for the Emirate of Dubai, Law no.11 for Year 2013, was enacted.
Abu Dhabi and Dubai are the only two emirates of the UAE with mandatory health
insurance laws.

The aim of enacting insurance laws in Abu Dhabi and Dubai was to ensure that all
residents and nationals of Abu Dhabi and Dubai will have access to healthcare
services. The Health Insurance Law of Abu Dhabi has been fully implemented since
2006, however the Health Insurance of Dubai is in the process of being enforced
in phases based on the employer's number of employees. The Health Insurance Law
of Dubai will become fully enforced by the year 2016.

The regulation "Implementing Regulations of Law no. 23 of 2005 Concerning the
Health Insurance in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi" was approved by the Abu Dhabi
Executive Council. It detailed all procedures required to implement Law no. 23
of 2005.

Both laws require the employer/sponsor to guarantee the availability of minimum
level of healthcare services for those under their sponsorship. The
responsibility falls on the employer to provide such benefits by covering the
employee, his wife and three children under the age of eighteen. In cases where
dependents are not covered by the employer, any number of dependents above that
are mentioned in the law shall be the responsibility of the employee (sponsor of
his dependents).

Both the governments of Abu Dhabi and Dubai are funding healthcare expenses for
nationals registered with the health authorities of both emirates.

Under Abu Dhabi law, the minimum level of healthcare services is referred to as
"Basic Health Insurance Policy," while Dubai law refers to it as the "Essential
Benefits Plan." Both minimum services cover emergency services, access to a
primary care service, tests and investigations, referral to specialists and
surgical procedures and maternity care.

The laws of both Emirates impose a list of penalties on the violators of the
laws. This includes employers, sponsors and healthcare providers. Schedule 4 of
the Regulations imposes a monthly penalty of 300 Dirhams on an employer or
sponsor for failing to subscribe for those under his sponsorship. The 300
Dirhams penalty shall apply for each violation. While Article 23 of the Dubai
law imposes a penalty ranging between 500 and 150,000 AED for violating the law.
In addition, it is not permissible for employers to deduct premiums from the
employee or to reduce salary to mitigate the cost.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday

Health reform safe from federal ruling

BYLINE: By Amanda Korman, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 406 words


Wednesday December 15, 2010

A day after a federal judge challenged the constitutionality of the federal
health insurance mandate, Massachusetts officials say that decision will have no
bearing on the state's 2006 health insurance law.

U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson ruled that Congress does not have the power
to require that all Americans purchase health insurance.

The same requirement in the Massachusetts health insurance law, that all
residents have coverage, is not affected by the ruling because of the vast
differences between state and federal powers granted by the Constitution.

"The fact that this is a case about Congressional power means it has very little
ramification for what a state's power would be," said Justin Crowe, professor of
political science at Williams College.

Crowe said that Massachusetts may draw its ability to require individuals to
have insurance from the state's right to "police power," the power to protect
the health, welfare and safety of its citizens.

Gov. Deval Patrick issued a statement Tuesday saying that the state's health
insurance policy will not be shaken by the federal ruling.

He cited the fact that more than 98 percent of state residents are now insured,
the highest rate of coverage in the nation.

"This success is a direct result of our effective implementation of the state's
2006 health reform law and the ruling will not affect the extraordinary gains we
have made," Patrick said.

Since the law passed in 2006, there have been lawsuits brought against it.
Perhaps most prominent is the 2008 Fountas v. Dormitzer, which sought to
challenge the fines associated with being uninsured or failing to declare health
insurance information on tax forms. It was dismissed on procedural grounds.

In general, the Massachusetts health reform law was not as highly contentious as
the federal legislation was, according to Victoria Bonney, communications
manager of state advocacy group Health Care for All.

She cited the bipartisan agreement in passing the law as one possible
explanation for the lack of uproar.

"It was a dog that didn't bark in Massachusetts," Bonney said.

The federal ruling by Judge Henry E. Hudson, a Republican appointee in Richmond,
Va., was the first decision made against the Obama administration's health
insurance legislation. Two earlier rulings were in favor of the new law, and
numerous other lawsuits were dismissed.

The administration plans to appeal Hudson's ruling.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             May 27, 2015 Wednesday

Implementation of health insurance law extended

BYLINE: Staff Report

LENGTH: 308 words


Dubai: In order to streamline health care insurance laws within Dubai Healthcare
City (DHCC), His Highness Shaikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President
and Prime Minister of UAE and Ruler of Dubai, has issued Resolution No (8) of
2015 extending the implementation of Dubai's Health Insurance Law on health-care
service providers licensed within DHCC.

The resolution aims to define the DHCC authority as the government entity
responsible for the implementation of Law No (11) of 2013 pertaining to health
insurance on the health-care facilities registered in Dubai Healthcare City.

Pursuant to the new resolution, the DHCC authority is solely authorised to
implement the health insurance Law on health-care service providers within DHCC,
and the authority is competent to license service providers to provide
health-care services to beneficiaries of health insurance, approving prices for
health-care services and monitoring their adherence to the approved prices.

The resolution also authorises the DHCC authority to oversee commitment of
service providers to the Procedural Notice issued pursuant to the Health
Insurance Law (No 11 of 2013) and other pertaining resolutions. The DHCC
authority may also enforce penalties prescribed by law on violators, receive and
investigate complaints and take the required procedures on the lodged
complaints.

Employees of Dubai Healthcare City authority appointed by a resolution from the
Chairman of DHCC Authority, or by whoever the chairman may delegate, enjoy the
powers of judicial officers in implicating any violations against the articles
of Law No (11) of 2013. The chairman of the DHCC authority is empowered to issue
any resolutions required to assure accurate implementation of this resolution.

This resolution is valid from the date of issuance and is to be published in the
Official Gazette.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2015 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday

Insurers praised Democrats, gave to GOP

BYLINE: By Reity O'Brien Center for Public Integrity

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 856 words


WASHINGTON -- The health insurance industry presented itself as an ally of
President Barack Obama's health care law while at the same time making hefty
contributions to members of Congress who are trying to get rid of it, according
to contribution records.

Between January 2007 and August 2012, the political action committees of the 11
largest health insurance companies and their primary trade group gave $10.2
million to federal politicians. Nearly two-thirds of the total went to
Republicans who oppose the law or support its repeal, according to the Center
for Public Integrity's analysis of Federal Election Commission filings.

The 11 top companies, according to the Fortune 500 list, controlled 35 percent
of the industry in 2011, according to data from the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners. The top industry trade group is America's Health
Insurance Plans.

Much of the money rolled in as health insurance industry leaders showed support
for the Democrats' reform efforts.

"We are ready to be accountable to these (new) rules," Karen Ignagni, AHIP's
president and chief executive officer told the Senate Finance Committee in May
2009, roughly a year before Obama's landmark legislation was signed into law.
And a month after Obama's Affordable Care Act became law in March 2010, Ignagni
said her organization was "strongly committed" to its "successful
implementation."

Likewise, Ron Williams, then chairman and chief executive officer of Aetna, the
country's fifth-largest health insurance company, also spoke favorably about the
bill -- at first.

"I believe that President Obama and this Congress have charted a course of
change," Williams said in a June 2009 statement. "I want to make clear that we
too are committed to expanding access, controlling costs and improving the
quality and value of care people receive."

But Williams, who left Aetna in April 2011, this past June penned a Wall Street
Journal op-ed calling for health care reform at the state level and criticizing
the federal law's mandate.

House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Va., ranks as the top recipient of
political action committee money from the top insurers since 2007, according to
the center's analysis. Cantor, a tea party favorite and one of the law's most
vocal critics, has received about $258,000 from AHIP and the top industry PACs.

In January 2011, Cantor introduced the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law
Act, the first of 33 repeal efforts that have reached the House floor.

That same year, Aetna, Humana, UnitedHealth Group and WellPoint -- which
together control 28 percent of the health insurance market -- maxed out to
Cantor, giving $10,000 apiece to his campaign committee. That doesn't include
additional sums that went into the congressman's leadership PAC.

Behind Cantor, Rep. David Camp, R-Mich., ranks second in health insurance
industry contributions. The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee has
pulled in more than $234,000 from these PACs since 2007. Last year, Camp
sponsored a bill that would cut $11.6 billion in funding for the law.

Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, now the Republican nominee for vice president, also
is among the top recipients ($187,000). This year, Ryan, who leads the House
Budget Committee, sponsored two major budget plans that have called for the
law's repeal.

Other top recipients of health insurance PAC money during this period include
House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio ($209,500); Republican House Whip Kevin
McCarthy of California ($149,700); Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, who is the ranking
GOP member of the Senate Finance Committee ($151,500); and Senate Finance
Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont. ($142,400). So if the health insurance
industry was in favor of key parts of the law, why support members of Congress
bent on killing it?

Part of the reason is that the legislation's centerpiece, the requirement that
almost everyone sign up for health insurance or pay a penalty, is expected to
benefit the health insurance industry. Many Democrats supported the provision;
many Republicans oppose it.

At the time the reform law passed, the Democratic Party controlled the White
House and both houses of Congress. By supporting the law, the industry was able
to stay in the game on a very complex piece of legislation.

AHIP and WellPoint _ the industry's top PAC contributor _ did not reply to
telephone or email inquiries requesting comment. Representatives from Aetna,
Amerigroup, Cigna and Humana declined to comment for this story.Since the
Democrats' Affordable Care Act was signed into law, the political environment
has changed dramatically.

Democrats no longer hold a filibuster-proof majority in the Senate, the House is
controlled by Republicans, and the president is in a tight race for re-election.

Despite his party's unified attack on the health care law, Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney, whose own health insurance reforms in
Massachusetts were in part a model for Obama's plan, has recently hinted at
willingness to compromise on some of its politically popular elements.

The Center for Public Integrity is a nonprofit, independent investigative news
outlet.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday

San Bernardino County officials face many questions on Obamacare

BYLINE: Andrew Edwards, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 426 words


COLTON - San Bernardino County's public-health officials face many unknowns
related to the implementation of the national health care law, not the least of
which is how the hundreds of thousands of people in the county who lack health
insurance will get coverage.

Another question: How many people may still decide not to get health insurance
even after the national health insurance mandate goes into effect next year.

"Some people think it's going to take years," Arrowhead Regional Medical Center
director Patrick Petre said of how long it will take for the uninsured to get
coverage.

"I think it's going to take two years until these people are under the Medicaid
expansion or the exchange," he said.

Petre and other public-health officials presented their views on the health care
law - known as the Affordable Care Act - Tuesday during a study session with
county supervisors. Some provisions of the law, such as allowing policyholders'
children to remain on health plans until age 26, have already gone into effect.
The biggest and most controversial part of the law, which requires Americans to
obtain health insurance or pay a tax penalty, is set to go into effect in 2014.

In San Bernardino County, there are an estimated 400,000 people with an annual
income of $46,000 or less who do not have health insurance.

That's a little less than 20 percent of the county's population.

The county's ArrowCare program, created as a bridge program before the
Affordable Care Act goes into effect, has about 26,000 enrollees.

California officials have proposed increasing Medi-Cal eligibility to people
whose earnings are at 138 percent of the federal poverty level.

The law also requires state-based health insurance exchanges to be established
by next year.

Although the health care law establishes tax subsidies for some, it's uncertain
whether those subsidies will be enough for people who earn too much to receive
care through Medi-Cal but are still far from wealthy.

For example, a household with an income of $35,137 per year can be expected to
receive tax credits worth $12,840 that could lower out-of-pocket insurance
premium costs to $1,405 per year, county officials estimated.

The penalty for forgoing health insurance next year will be the greater of $95
or 1 percent of income.

Some may decide it's more affordable to pay the tax penalty, and assistant
county administrator Linda Haugan said it's still unknown when people will be
able to get tax credits to help them buy insurance.

"There's a lot of upfront costs for folks to purchase insurance," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           September 24, 1993, Friday

Town meetings set on state insurance reform plan

BYLINE: By Rebecca Nash STAFF WRITER

SECTION: STATE NEWS; Section D; Page 2

LENGTH: 277 words


Georgia Insurance Commissioner Tim Ryles announced today that his office will
hold 10 "town hall" meetings around the state, beginning Oct. 12, to discuss his
proposed state health insurance plan.

The Georgia Reform Insurance Plan would require insurance companies to offer
three to 10 plans to anyone who wanted to buy them at lower prices than now
available. Ryles plans to have GRIP introduced as legislation in the 1994
session of the General Assembly.

The meetings will be held Oct. 12 in Smyrna; Oct. 20 in Augusta; Oct. 21 in
Savannah; Oct. 27 in Columbus; Oct. 28 in Albany; Nov. 3 in Dalton; Nov. 9 in
Macon; Nov. 18 in Thomasville; Nov. 30 in Brunswick; and Dec. 2 in Jonesboro.

Ryles's plan passed the state Senate earlier this year. It faces tough
opposition from the House Insurance Committee, whose chairman, Rep. Jimmy Lord
(D-Sandersville), has introduced reform measures that would give control of some
of the state's Medicaid programs to private insurance companies.

Speaking to the Smyrna Optimist Club today, Ryles took issue with President
Clinton's health care reform plan. "I have very serious reservations about the
federal government getting involved in health insurance," Ryles said. The main
difference in his plan and Clinton's proposals is that the latter would add a
"new bureaucratic substructure" to health insurance, he said.

"Insurance remains the almost exclusive domain of state government," Ryles said.

Responding to a question about implementing GRIP, Ryles said the plan preserves
a private insurance market and expands the agents' role by negotiating benefit
levels between the consumer and medical providers.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH932680162

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              52 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            September 8, 2013 Sunday

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 912 words


Some employers may actively discourage their workers from applying for federally
subsidized health insurance through the Affordable Care Act as a way of avoiding
the law's financial penalties on employers in 2015 and beyond.

Such harassment or threats, forecasted by two law professors at the University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, aren't necessarily illegal but are among the
"unintended consequences" of the ACA that members of Congress should consider
fixing by amending the law, one of the professors said last week.

"They should be looking at it," Peter Molk said. "We don't know actually how
people are going to behave, but there's this financial incentive for employers
to behave in a particular way."

Spokeswomen for business groups in Illinois said Molk and his fellow law school
faculty colleague, Suja Thomas, may be overreacting in the paper the professors
co-wrote for Cornell Law Review Online (http://bit.ly/ACApaper).

"They bring up valid points, but this is a solution in search of a problem,"
said Laura Minzer, Springfield-based executive director of the Illinois Chamber
of Commerce's Healthcare Council.

"Certainly, there are 'bad actors' out there that might take that route," she
said.

But she said Molk and Thomas describe "worst-case scenarios" that may rarely
occur.

Kim Clarke Maisch, the Springfield-based Illinois state director of the National
Federation of Independent Business, agreed, though she added, "Harassment of any
kind is never acceptable in the workplace.

"There are a lot of aspects of Obamacare that are causing fits on both sides,"
Maisch said. "That's what happens when government intervenes in the marketplace
like this."

Covering the gaps

Employers have more pressing things on their minds right now, such as figuring
out how the ACA's many regulations apply to them and how to afford health
insurance for their employees and continue to make a profit, Minzer said.

It will be difficult to get a divided Congress to agree to any tweaks in the
health-care law in the near future, she added.

Many key provisions in the 2010 law take effect in 2014, when coverage offered
through government-supervised, online marketplaces called health-insurance
exchanges begins.

Enrollment in Illinois' exchange - through an online portal and with the help of
phone banks and in-person counselors in a state-federal partnership - is
expected to begin Oct. 1.

The ACA's individual mandate that most Americans have health insurance or face
tax penalties begins in 2014, as do new rules that prohibit health insurance
from being denied or premiums being boosted because of "pre-existing
conditions."

The Obama administration delayed fines associated with the law's employer
mandate until 2015.

Molk and Thomas write that "given the gaps in protection ... retaliation and
harassment under the ACA" are likely, and "additional protection is warranted."

Molk said he didn't know whether state legislation would adequately address the
gaps.

Beginning in 2015, employers with the equivalent of 50 or more full-time
employees face potential $3,000 annual fines for each employee who goes into an
exchange and receives a federal subsidy to reduce the cost of coverage if the
employer-sponsored coverage is deemed inadequate or too expensive.

"Inadequate" means the insurance doesn't pay at least 60 percent of coverage of
health-care expenses.

"Too expensive" means the employee premium for individual coverage exceeds 9.5
percent of the employee's gross household income.

Expand protection

An employer of 50 or more that fails to offer any health insurance also can be
fined $2,000 per employee if any of its employees receives subsidized insurance
through a state exchange.

The law "pushes employers both to minimize the number of employees who take
employer-provided health insurance and, if the health insurance is inadequate,
to minimize the number of employees obtaining subsidized insurance through an
exchange," the professors write in their law review paper. "Such employer
'encouragement' may not be overt or direct."

The ACA and another federal law allow an employee to sue an employer for damages
if the employee is fired for accepting coverage offered by the employer as part
of the health-care law or seeks subsidized coverage through a health-insurance
exchange.

But there are gray areas not addressed by existing law, Molk said.

"One can imagine an employer warning its employees of impending job losses if
too many employees sign up for an employer's insurance or individual subsidized
insurance," the professors write.

Employers also could poll prospective or current employees about their
intentions to seek health insurance from the employer or from an exchange, then
make hiring decisions based on that information or pressure employees to seek
alternative coverage, Molk said.

Molk and Thomas call for "expanded employee protection" in their paper,
including protections that could prevent employers from downsizing workforces or
reducing the number of full-time employees "for the sole purpose of avoiding
health coverage under the ACA."

But they note that federal law allows an employer to be viewed as acting
properly "if it acts for the purpose of a 'fundamental business decision.' This
type of protection that gives the employer an ability to make sound business
decisions but protects employees against nefarious motivations would be ideal."

Dean Olsen can be reached at 788-1543. Follow him at twitter.com/DeanOlsenSJR.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily Record of Rochester (Rochester, NY)

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday

New definition for cash medical support in New York

BYLINE: Elizabeth Stull

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 846  words


A new state law aims to ensure children of low-income parents receive health
insurance, and brings the state into compliance with federal rules regarding
medical support.

New York State Deputy Chief Magistrate John Aman, of Erie County Family Court,
said the bill marks a significant change in child support determinations.

"It takes out the discretion and the guesswork," out of determining when
healthcare is affordable, Aman said. "With the rising cost of healthcare, this
is all the more important. "

Susan E. Antos, a senior attorney at the non-profit Empire Justice Center, said
the law could enable more low-income families to access public healthcare.

"We think it's going to have a very significant impact on children's health for
low-income families," Antos said.

By creating a uniform, statewide standard for when private health insurance for
children is affordable and available, parents with unreasonably high co-pays or
deductibles might become eligible to enroll their children in a more affordable
public health option such as Child Health Plus, Antos said.

Although children typically are covered by private health insurance through a
parent's provider, a court may order cash medical support if private insurance
is not reasonably accessible, at a reasonable cost.

The federal Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 and its regulations require states to
define "cash medical support" in order to be reimbursed for public health
insurance programs. 45 CFR 302.56; 303.31

The new law provides specific guidelines for courts to determine the cost and
accessibility of private health insurance. If it is not available and health
coverage is obtained through Child Health Plus or Medicaid, the law provides
guidelines for parental reimbursement to the Department of Health for the cost
of these programs.

For first time, the law also sets standards for establishing liability for costs
associated with childbirth, Antos said. That is significant because previously,
particularly in Western New York, courts often assessed the full cost of
prenatal and birthing expenses on the non-custodial parent, Aman said.

"Oftentimes a non-custodial dad was saddled with the entire cost of the
birthing, which could easily be between $6,000 to $10,000," Antos said. "A lot
of low-income moms were not seeking pre-natal care because they didn't want the
father of the child to get sued" by the state for Medicaid reimbursements.

Until now, New York's Family Court Act §416 and Domestic Relations Law §240
required health insurance to be provided in child support orders if available.
But the statutes provided no specific guidance for determining when it was
available.

Under the new law, the cost of health insurance is defined as the difference
between a self-only plan and extending benefits to children.

The new Family Court Act §416(d) and DRL 240(1)(b) paragraph 3, state the cost
is to be considered reasonable if the premium and deductible do not exceed 5
percent of the combined parental income.

Health insurance costs will not be considered reasonable if one parent's share
would reduce his or her income below the self-support reserve, defined as 135
percent of the poverty level for a household of one. The reserve is adjusted
annually on April 1, and currently is $14,620.

The court may find an exception to the affordability guidelines, based on the
parents' resources, for instance.

There is a rebuttable presumption that health insurance benefits are accessible
when the child lives in the plan's coverage area or within 30 minutes or miles
from the services covered.

As under the current laws, the non-custodial parent still must pay his or her
share of a child's reasonable, unreimbursed health care expenses. But the total
cash medical payment may not reduce that parent's income below the self-support
reserve.

"We never had that protection before," Antos said.

The cost of providing private health insurance is pro-rated between the parties,
proportionate to each parent's share of the combined parental income. If the
non-custodial parent provides the benefits, that parent's share of the cost is
deducted from his or her basic child support obligation. If the custodial parent
provides benefits, the non-custodial parent's share of the cost is added to
child support payments.

As under current law, if private health insurance benefits are not available,
the custodial parent is ordered to apply for Medicaid or Child Health Plus.

Specific rules apply for calculating parental contributions to each type of
public health insurance. In each case, the court defines the non-custodial
parent's monthly medical support payment, which may not exceed 5 percent of his
or her gross income or the difference between his or her income and the
self-support reserve, whichever is less.

Requiring the non-custodial parent to contribute payments toward the public
healthcare program helps lift the burden from the taxpayers, Aman said.

The new law becomes effective Oct. 9 and applies to any proceeding to establish
or modify child support, including medical support, commenced on or after that
date.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Government activity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 11, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Insurers Ask Clinton To Help to Stop Ads

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10


The insurance industry asked the White House today for help in stopping
"misleading, inaccurate and inflammatory" ads supporting President Clinton's
health-care proposals.

Bill Gradison, president of the Health Insurance Association of America, wrote
the President, asking him to intercede with leaders of the Health Care Reform
Project to stop its ads.

The project is conducting a $750,000 ad campaign supporting the President's
approach to health reform. It is financed by labor, consumer, health and senior
citizen groups.

One of its ads says that while doctors and nurses try to make people well,
"every day, some insurance companies find those people, reduce their benefits,
jack up rates or even drop their coverage.

"Some insurance companies oppose real health care reform, but it wasn't designed
for them."

Lorrie McHugh, a White House spokesman, said the President had not yet seen the
letter.

Both the President and his wife, Hillary, have complained repeatedly about the
insurers' "Harry and Louise" ads criticizing the proposed health alliances and
other features in the White House plan.

The industry has spent more than $14 million on its ads, which the Clintons have
called misleading and blamed for a drop in public support for the White House
reform plan.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           October 27, 2012 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

IDAHO HEALTH INSURANCE PANEL FAVORS STATE-BASED EXCHANGE Otter must notify
federal government of plans

BYLINE: Betsy Z. Russell<br> betsyr@spokesman.com, (208) 336-2854<br>

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: BOISE


Idaho Gov. Butch Otter's health insurance exchange working group has voted
overwhelmingly in favor of a state-based health insurance exchange, calling for
a private nonprofit group set up by the state to run it.

The recommendation now goes to Otter, who must notify the federal government of
which way the state will go by Nov. 16. If the state does nothing, under the
Affordable Care Act it will get a federally run health insurance exchange and
lose state regulatory control over its health insurance industry.

Only two members of the 13-member panel dissented in the decision: Rep. Lynn
Luker, R-Boise, and political activist Wayne Hoffman.

Hoffman compared the state's relationship with the federal government to "the
relationship of an abuser to a spouse. We keep getting beat up by the federal
government and we keep running back to the federal government, and we have done
it time and time again."

He said, "I think the best interest of the state is to continue to resist this
constitutionally dubious federal law. ... The only way you're going to get the
federal government, Congress and the executive branch to reconsider the law is
just to resist its implementation."

Kevin Settles, owner of Bardenay restaurants, countered, "We need to get past
arguing the legality of the law. The Supreme Court settled the issue. We can
make something good out of this. ... With the state-based nonprofit exchange, we
can make it reflect Idaho." He noted that Idaho's current health insurance
premiums are among the lowest in the nation, saying an Idaho exchange can be
"lean and mean."

Idaho lawmakers took no action on a health insurance exchange in their 2012
session, betting instead that the national health care reform law requiring
exchanges would be overturned by the U.S. Supreme Court. The lawwas upheld in
June.

Rep. John Rusche, D-Lewiston, said opting for a federal exchange would mean much
higher health insurance costs for Idahoans, "charging the citizens of the state
of Idaho $120 million more for basically the same insurance they're getting
now."

Panel member John Watts said, "I just don't know why we'd want the federal
government to control absolutely everything if we have an option to avoid that."

There have been conflicting opinions on whether Idaho even has time to complete
a state-designed exchange by Jan. 1, 2014, as required by the federal law. On
Oct. 9, for instance, experts hired by the state said Idaho's only option was to
partner with the federal government on a hybrid exchange, as time had run out on
going it alone. On Friday, however, another consultant said Idaho still had
time.

Idaho can build a state-based exchange, using some $30 million in aid from the
federal government, "if you aggressively go after it," said Brett Graham, of
Leavitt Partners in Utah.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Associated Press contributed to this report.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              56 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 16, 2017 Thursday

Status of House Bill No: 133

LENGTH: 530  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania House of Representatives has issued the following
Status of House Bill:



  HOUSE BILL

 No.

 133

 Session of

 2017

 INTRODUCED BY BAKER, MILLARD, GREINER, RAPP, MURT, BARRAR,

 KAUFFMAN, MENTZER, PHILLIPS-HILL, READSHAW, GROVE, WARD,

 LAWRENCE, MARSICO, WATSON AND GABLER, JANUARY 23, 2017

 AS REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE ON INSURANCE, HOUSE OF

 REPRESENTATIVES, AS AMENDED, MARCH 13, 2017

 AN ACT

 Amending Title 40 (Insurance) of the Pennsylvania Consolidated

 Statutes, in general provisions, providing for right to

 purchase health insurance sold in other states.



 The General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

 hereby enacts as follows:

 Section 1.  Title 40 of the Pennsylvania Consolidated

 Statutes is amended by adding a section to read:

 § 102.  Right to purchase health insurance sold in other states.

 (a)  Review.--The Insurance Commissioner shall undertake a

 review of laws and regulations existing on the effective date of

 this section pertaining to the business of health insurance in

 this Commonwealth and in other states to determine how to allow

 Pennsylvania residents the ability to purchase health insurance

 products sold in other states by carriers not otherwise subject

 to Pennsylvania insurance laws and regulations.

 (b)  Report.--On or before December 1, 2017, the Insurance

 Commissioner shall submit a report to the Banking and Insurance

 1

 2

 3

 4

 5

 6

 7

 8

 9

 10

 11

 12

 13

 14

 15

 16

 17

 Committee of the Senate and the Insurance Committee of the House

 of Representatives on what changes to Pennsylvania laws and

 regulations would be necessary in order to enable Pennsylvanians

 to purchase out-of-State health insurance products. The report

 shall address at least the following:

 (1)  The mechanism by which the Insurance Commissioner

 can regulate the purchase of out-of-State health insurance

 products and the carriers offering those products in order to

 protect Pennsylvania consumers, either through multistate

 agreements with other states or a similar mechanism whereby

 the Insurance Commissioner and the other states that

 participate in the agreement delineate their respective roles

 and responsibilities for oversight, regulation and

 enforcement of applicable laws and rules and specify which

 state's laws and regulations apply.

 (2)  The responsibilities of out-of-State carriers with

 regard to informing Pennsylvania consumers about the impact

 of purchasing a health insurance product that is regulated by

 the laws of another state, including information about

 whether coverages that are mandated by Pennsylvania law are

 included in the out-of-State product, whether Pennsylvania

 laws or restrictions on rate changes apply and whether the

 product is more or less expensive    that    THAN    other products

 regulated under Pennsylvania laws and rules.

 (3)  The barriers to allowing Pennsylvania consumers to

 purchase out-of-State health insurance products.

 (4)  A proposed time line for implementing changes

 necessary to enable the interstate purchase of health

 insurance.

 Section 2.  This act shall take effect in 60 days.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 28, 2016 Tuesday

Texas: Be Alert Middle East: Dubai Health Insurance Cover &#226;&#128;[#xfffd]
Your questions answered

LENGTH: 660  words

DATELINE: New York



 Austin: JD Supra Business Advisor, The State of Texas has issued the following
news release:



    Employers need to be aware that 30 June 2016 signifies the deadline by which
all employees (regardless of the size of the employer) should have compulsory
health insurance cover in accordance with the Dubai Health Insurance Law No 11
of 2013 ("the law"). The law applies to both those living or working onshore in
Dubai and those living or working in any of the free zones, including the Dubai
International Financial Centre.





 The law has had a phased implementation since coming into effect in January
2014 and is currently in its final phase, which requires companies with 100 or
fewer employees to have cover by the end of June.



 What level of coverage is mandatory?



 According to the law, every sponsor has a legal obligation to ensure that
anyone on their sponsorship has the minimum standard cover afforded by the
Essential Benefits Plan ("EBP"). This basic cover includes outpatient
consultancy at clinics, referrals to specialists for surgical and pathological
investigations, maternity health cover, emergency visits to hospital and any
surgery required. Sponsors are of course entitled to top up this insurance cover
and provide individuals under their sponsorship with a greater level of
coverage.



 Where can sponsors purchase the different insurance packages?



 The Dubai Health Authority website and www.isahd.ae have a comprehensive list
of all 46 registered insurance providers in the United Arab Emirates of which
nine provide the EBP package for employees who earn less than AED 4,000.
Employers also have the option of taking out group insurance schemes instead of
individual cover for each employee.



 The link between health insurance and visa renewal



 The health insurance scheme has been linked to that of visa issuance and
renewal. Ffrom 30 June 2016, individuals who do not have health insurance will
be automatically rejected when applying for residence visas. The exception to
this is individuals who fall within the categories of "dependant" or "domestic
worker", in respect of whom the Dubai Health Authority has announced there will
be a further grace period of six months in which to become compliant with the
law.



 What are the penalties for non-compliance?



 Aside from the six month grace period for dependants and domestic workers
detailed above, all other sponsors in Dubai who fail to comply with the law will
be subject to monthly fines of at least AED 500 from 30 June 2016. Not only will
sponsors be subject to fines for non-compliance with the law, they will also be
responsible for paying for the health care of those on their sponsorship should
they fall ill and lack health insurance. Given that the cost of the basic health
insurance package ranges between AED 565 and AED 650, it is advisable for
sponsors who have not yet taken out healthcare insurance for those on their
sponsorship to do so promptly.



 For how long must an employer provide medical insurance cover for an employee?



 Employers must provide healthcare insurance for all employees until the
employment relationship is terminated by either party or the contract of
employment expires. There is no requirement for an employer to continue to cover
an individual after the employee's termination date, regardless of whether the
individual remains on their sponsorship because the United Arab Emirates exit
formalities have not been completed. This means that employees may not have
cover for the 30 day grace period which an employer has to cancel former
employees' work permits and residence visas. It would be good practice for
employers to inform terminated employees of this before their termination date
so that they can arrange for alternative cover during the period they remain in
country once their employment has officially terminated.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                                 June 06, 2013

National Assembly Begins Process to Repeal National Health Insurance Act

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: Abuja


The National Assembly has commenced the process of repealing the existing
National Health Insurance Act to come up with a law that will meet the health
needs of Nigerians.

The Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Ifeanyi Okowa, made this known at the
ongoing Centenary Law Summit in Abuja on Thursday.

Okowa said as part of plans to expedite action on the new Act, it had gone
through first and second reading as well as other processes required to pass it
into law.

"We are already working on the National Health Insurance Act. We are repealing
the old Act and coming up with a new one.

"Right now, it has gone through the first and second reading and we conducted a
public hearing. We are also making our reports ready in order to bring it back
to the Senate.

"The essence is to expand the Act in order to make provision for social health
insurance that involves the private and the organised private sector.

"The Act will provide for special schemes like the vulnerable group fund that
will cater for the elderly, the unemployed and children under five as well as
pregnant women and the disabled.

"So, before the end of the year, we will have completed the process and it will
be signed into law," he said.

Okowa said a new health insurance law became necessary, following the exclusion
of people in the informal sector from the scheme.

According to him, most of the people in the informal sector are those at the
grassroots, who requires more health care.

"Health insurance is beyond those in the public sector, it is beyond those in
the organised private sector because a greater number of Nigerians are outside
this sector, they are in the informal sector so how are we going to take care of
them?

"These are the people we must take care of because they are the people that are
the lower level at the bracket and we need to begin to help them organise
themselves," he said.

The senator reiterated the need to guarantee the health of Nigerians in order to
guarantee their right to life. (NAN)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 7, 2017 Friday

Pennsylvania State Legislature Bill: HOUSE BILL No. 133

LENGTH: 538  words

DATELINE: New York



Harrisburg: Pennsylvania State Legislature has issued the following bill
updates:    HOUSE BILL  No.  133  Session of  2017  INTRODUCED BY BAKER,
MILLARD, GREINER, RAPP, MURT, BARRAR,  KAUFFMAN, MENTZER, PHILLIPS-HILL,
READSHAW, GROVE, WARD,  LAWRENCE, MARSICO, WATSON AND GABLER, JANUARY 23, 2017
AS REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE ON INSURANCE, HOUSE OF  REPRESENTATIVES, AS AMENDED,
MARCH 13, 2017  AN ACT  Amending Title 40 (Insurance) of the Pennsylvania
Consolidated  Statutes, in general provisions, providing for right to  purchase
health insurance sold in other states.  The General Assembly of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania  hereby enacts as follows:  Section 1. Title 40 of the
Pennsylvania Consolidated  Statutes is amended by adding a section to read:  §
102. Right to purchase health insurance sold in other states.  (a) Review.--The
Insurance Commissioner shall undertake a  review of laws and regulations
existing on the effective date of  this section pertaining to the business of
health insurance in  this Commonwealth and in other states to determine how to
allow  Pennsylvania residents the ability to purchase health insurance  products
sold in other states by carriers not otherwise subject  to Pennsylvania
insurance laws and regulations.  (b) Report.--On or before December 1, 2017, the
Insurance  Commissioner shall submit a report to the Banking and Insurance  1  2
3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17         Committee of the
Senate and the Insurance Committee of the House  of Representatives on what
changes to Pennsylvania laws and  regulations would be necessary in order to
enable Pennsylvanians  to purchase out-of-State health insurance products.

The report  shall address at least the following:  (1) The mechanism by which
the Insurance Commissioner  can regulate the purchase of out-of-State health
insurance  products and the carriers offering those products in order to
protect Pennsylvania consumers, either through multistate  agreements with other
states or a similar mechanism whereby  the Insurance Commissioner and the other
states that  participate in the agreement delineate their respective roles  and
responsibilities for oversight, regulation and  enforcement of applicable laws
and rules and specify which  state's laws and regulations apply.  (2) The
responsibilities of out-of-State carriers with  regard to informing Pennsylvania
consumers about the impact  of purchasing a health insurance product that is
regulated by  the laws of another state, including information about  whether
coverages that are mandated by Pennsylvania law are  included in the
out-of-State product, whether Pennsylvania  laws or restrictions on rate changes
apply and whether the  product is more or less expensive   that   THAN   other
products    regulated under Pennsylvania laws and rules.  (3) The barriers to
allowing Pennsylvania consumers to  purchase out-of-State health insurance
products.  (4) A proposed time line for implementing changes  necessary to
enable the interstate purchase of health  insurance.  Section 2. This act shall
take effect in 60 days

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     March 6, 1995, Monday, JOURNAL EDITION

Letters;
In My Opinion

BYLINE: BERT A. LOFTMAN, M.D.; Atlanta

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 333 words


To have your opinion considered for this special feature, please include a
photo, brief biography and a telephone number. Mail your submissions to: Journal
Editorial, P.O. Box 4689, Atlanta, Ga. 30302.

Let citizens reform U.S. health care

The Editors: Health care reform is not dead. Now is the time to be heard,
because health care reform meetings are much more open to citizens' ideas. At
one recent meeting, comments and questions from the audience was where the real
action occurred. We heard from people with real problems followed by different
points of view on how to solve them. This is different from last year, when a
specific plan was being sold. The next round of reform probably will be
incremental, with one issue at a time specifically solved with appropriate
legislation.

A group of pharmaceutical representatives meeting on health care reform was
asked how many had health insurance, and all hands went up. When asked how many
had health insurance if they lost their job, all hands went down. The
portability problem - medical insurance tied to employment - also causes
job-lock, where workers are unable to change jobs for fear of losing their
coverage.

The most commonly discussed solution is to require insurance companies to have
portable policies. Another is to allow workers to choose individual policies.
Still another is to allow individuals the same tax break as employer-based
medical insurance. The employee would own the policy and there would be no
portability problem.

As we approach incremental health care reform, we should evaluate the many
solutions for each of the problems. The American public, rather than the
employers, providers or insurance companies, should decide which solution is the
best. Maybe by doing so, we can begin to understand and solve the problems of
American medical care.

Bert Loftman is a neurological surgeon who has lived in Atlanta 21 years. He is
an avid cyclist and has toured Europe and the U.S. by bicycle.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: mug of Bert Loftman

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution


                              61 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday

Retired Judge Sues to Stop Premiums

BYLINE: Doug Finke; State Capitol Bureau, DOUG.FINKE@SJ-R.COM

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 501 words


A retired state judge has filed suit in Sang-amon County to block a new state
law that will begin charging state retirees premiums for their state health
insurance.

Gordon Maag, a retired appellate justice who lost a bid for the state Supreme
Court in 2004, wants the law declared unconstitutional. He also is asking that
the case be declared a class-action lawsuit on behalf of all retirees affected
by the law.

Maag argues that the new law "purports to diminish and impair the benefits of
members of pension and retirement systems of the state of Illinois, in that (the
law) abolishes free health insurance to Illinois retirees who were and are
entitled to free health insurance on account of working for the state for 20 or
more years of service, or, in the case of retired legislators, four years, and
in the case of retired judges, six years."

Maag's attorney, Peter Maag of Wood River, declined to discuss the lawsuit when
contacted Monday.

Hearings not set

A staff member for Attorney General Lisa Madigan, whose office will defend the
new law in court, said hearings in the case apparently have not yet been
scheduled.

Gov. Pat Quinn last month signed Senate Bill 1313, which would require retired
state employees, university workers, law-makers and judges to begin paying
premiums for state health insurance. Retired downstate teachers are covered by a
separate health insurance program, for which they already pay premiums.

Retired state and university workers who worked 20 or more years before retiring
were entitled to state health insurance without paying premiums, as were state
law-makers and judges after shorter periods. Although they did not have to pay
premiums, retirees did have to pay for dependent coverage as well as meet
deductibles and co-payments.

The Department of Central Management Services is to set up a schedule of premium
payments based on individual retirees' ability to pay. Those receiving larger
state pensions would pay more toward their health insurance than those with
smaller pensions. The premium schedule is to be reviewed by a bipartisan panel
of state lawmakers.

Union considering options

CMS has not yet set up a premium schedule. Retiree premiums are part of the
ongoing contract negotiations between the state and the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees union.

AFSCME spokesman Anders Lindall said the union is still considering its options
regarding the health insurance bill.

Maag ran as a Democrat against Republican Lloyd Karmeier in 2004 for a seat on
the state Supreme Court from the 5th Judicial District in southern Illinois.
Maag lost in what was described as the most expensive judicial race in the
country. Maag also lost a bid to retain his seat on the appellate court in the
same election.

Maag filed a $110 million lawsuit against a coalition of business groups that he
said distributed false and defamatory information about him during the campaign,
but he later dropped the suit.

Doug Finke can be reached at 788-1527.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                WMI Company News

                              June 27, 2016 Monday

Introduction of new health insurance law in Egypt

LENGTH: 191 words


The Health Ministry of Egypt is introducing a new health insurance law in the
country. Under this law, a universal healthcare system will be introduced in the
country, providing compulsory comprehensive health cover to every Egyptian. It
will improve the country's healthcare system, and will be controlled by a new
board. The law covers all forms of treatment except vaccinations and primary
healthcare. As of May 8, 2016, the ministry had completed the draft of the new
Health Insurance Bill, which is now ready to be introduced in the Parliament for
approval. It has been underway since the initial draft was written in 2015 by
the Health Ministry and the Doctors Syndicate. The latest draft aims to cover:

According to the draft bill, individuals are required to mandatorily contribute
for the monthly subscription of universal health insurance. However, the draft
bill stipulates that the government is expected to completely cover the cost of
the individuals who cannot afford the subscription.



Please access the full 'Governance, Risk and Compliance - The Egyptian Insurance
Industry' report at:

http://www.insurance-ic.com/search?q%5B%5D=Egypt

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 World Market Intelligence Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           December 26, 2013 Thursday

Dubai Health Insurance Law Will Make Market Competitive

LENGTH: 838  words


The Dubai government's recently-passed mandatory health insurance law will make
the market more competitive and will help boost employee productivity, according
to experts.
"Dubai's mandate making health insurance compulsory is a very positive step,"
said Ashok Sardana, managing director, Continental Group.


"It will help provide for a better level of care for the residents of Dubai and
will help the market grow."
With the new law coming into effect in early 2014, many major local insurance
firms and healthcare providers are ramping up their offers.
It has also spurred players like Abu Dhabi-based Al Noor Hospitals Group to
expand into the Dubai market.
While Dubai's insurance market is extremely competitive, with major players
dominating the scene, Sardana said that the new law will not phase out the
smaller players.
"The market is big enough for everyone," he said.
"However, we will see big and established players benefit more as they will be
able to provide a better quality of service and value due to the established
infrastructure."
BENEFITS TO OUTWEIGH COSTS FOR EMPLOYERSAccording to the new law, employers will
have to bear the costs of providing their staff with medical insurance. The
Dubai Health Authority (DHA) has set a two-year deadline to roll-out the health
insurance scheme across the emirate.
As per the law, companies with 1000 or more employees will have to cover their
staff before the end of October 2014 while those with 100 to 999 employees have
until the end of July 2015. Firms with less than 100 employees will need to
provide health insurance to their staff before the end of June 2016.
All spouses, dependents and domestic workers will also have to be covered by
June 2016, the DHA said.
It also assured the employers that such a move would only have a "minimum
impact" in terms of cost.
"On an average, health insurance costs 1.5 per cent of the monthly salary. For
example, if an employer pays Dhs10,000 per month in salaries, if he adds Dhs150
per month, it covers the cost of health insurance," said Dr Haider Al Yousuf,
director of Health Funding at DHA.
"This is a minimum impact, adequate benefit plan; clearly the benefits outweigh
the minimum costs involved. The scheme protects both employers and employees
from unforeseen health care costs that can arise out of an illness or an
emergency."
Sardana agreed that the compulsory health cover for employees will prove
positive in the long-term.
"While employers who have previously not provided employees with health
insurance will have to bear the cost they will benefit from a boost in
productivity and better morale," he said.

"It is a competitive market and I am sure we will see the insurance companies
come out with affordable options while maintaining good benefits creating a
win-win for both."
The new law will also be beneficial in further utilising healthcare services in
the country since hospitals will be able to widen their patient base to include
lower income groups as well.
"At the moment our clients fall under the middle and upper class insurance
categories," said Salim Al Maamary, CEO of Al Tadawi Medical Centre.
"But with health insurance being made mandatory by DHA, insurance companies will
be encouraged to lower premiums which will enable us to take everyone on board."

He said that mandatory health insurance will particularly benefit labourers due
to the nature of their work.
"Judging from the service provider prospective it is a sense of security for
patients to know that they are covered medically rather than being surprised
with exorbitant medical bills when they most need it," he said.
GROWING MARKETA Markaaz report released this year, revealed that compulsory
health insurance has driven up the value of the GCC health insurance industry to
$4.69 billion in terms of premium volumes.
Population growth and increased awareness of health issues have contributed
further to the growth of the industry.
Despite robust growth rates in recent years, the report found that insurance
penetration in the region is still low owing to the transient nature of
expatriates and a lack of awareness.
The Gulf region has a market size of $16.3 billion in terms of premium volume
but had an insurance penetration of just 1.14 per cent in 2012 as compared to
the global average of 6.5 per cent.
However, this is gradually changing, the report said. The industry witnessed a
compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of about 18 per cent between 2006 and 2012,
compared to the global CAGR of just 4.37 per cent during the same period.
With strong potential for growth in the GCC, the report forecasts the insurance
industry to be worth $28 billion by 2015 and touch $40 billion by 2017.
"The Gulf has always been an attractive market for medical insurance due to the
strong expat population," said Sardana.
"We do have a good selection of international providers already offering medical
insurance products and we will continue to see more international companies
entering the market."© 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      February 3, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Open Enrollment in Health Insurance Marketplace Nearing End

LENGTH: 424  words


Feb. 3 -- US-based Liberty Tax issued the following news release:

Liberty Tax, Inc. (NASDAQ: TAX) In less than three weeks, open enrollment in the
Health Insurance Marketplace will end. Those who have not enrolled by February
15, will be unable to obtain Marketplace coverage for 2015 unless they face a
qualifying life event, such as a change in income or family size. With health
insurance agents at many of its offices, Liberty Tax is poised to assist those
who have questions about coverage and cost and those who need to meet the
February 15 deadline.

Already, millions of Americans and legal residents have applied for and received
health insurance coverage. Still many are without coverage, and some may have
chosen to forgo it because of cost. Those taxpayers may be surprised to learn
that they are eligible for help in paying insurance premiums. During the first
two months of open enrollment, from October 15 to December 15, 2014, more than
3.4 million people signed up for coverage in the Marketplace, according to the
Department of Health and Human Services. Nearly 90 percent qualified for
financial assistance for health insurance.

"Many of the people who typically file taxes early are among those eligible for
insurance subsidies. Some still may be unaware of the health insurance law,"
said Chuck Lovelace, Vice President of the Affordable Care Act at Liberty Tax.
"When they come in to have their taxes done, we will talk with them about the
law and tax credits, and help them enroll, if needed."

Individuals who do not have insurance in 2015 and do not have a coverage
exemption will pay the greater of these two penalties:

* 2% of annual taxable household income, with a cap at the national average
premium for a bronze plan in the health insurance Marketplace;

* $325 per person and $162.50 per child under 18, with a cap of $975 per family.

Liberty Tax's income tax preparers can also help those who may qualify for
exemptions to the health insurance law. Some taxpayers will be able to claim the
exemption when they file their tax return. For those who cannot, Liberty Tax
will be able to assist them in applying through the Marketplace.

Liberty Tax has made it easy for taxpayers to enroll in health care coverage by
adding health insurance agents at many of its offices. Early filers can have
their taxes prepared and get their health insurance coverage before the February
15 deadline.

Liberty Tax has made the merger of health insurance information and income tax
preparation a seamless process for consumers.

Source: Liberty Tax

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      February 3, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Open Enrollment in Health Insurance Marketplace Nearing End

LENGTH: 424  words


Feb. 3 -- US-based Liberty Tax issued the following news release:

Liberty Tax, Inc. (NASDAQ: TAX) In less than three weeks, open enrollment in the
Health Insurance Marketplace will end. Those who have not enrolled by February
15, will be unable to obtain Marketplace coverage for 2015 unless they face a
qualifying life event, such as a change in income or family size. With health
insurance agents at many of its offices, Liberty Tax is poised to assist those
who have questions about coverage and cost and those who need to meet the
February 15 deadline.

Already, millions of Americans and legal residents have applied for and received
health insurance coverage. Still many are without coverage, and some may have
chosen to forgo it because of cost. Those taxpayers may be surprised to learn
that they are eligible for help in paying insurance premiums. During the first
two months of open enrollment, from October 15 to December 15, 2014, more than
3.4 million people signed up for coverage in the Marketplace, according to the
Department of Health and Human Services. Nearly 90 percent qualified for
financial assistance for health insurance.

"Many of the people who typically file taxes early are among those eligible for
insurance subsidies. Some still may be unaware of the health insurance law,"
said Chuck Lovelace, Vice President of the Affordable Care Act at Liberty Tax.
"When they come in to have their taxes done, we will talk with them about the
law and tax credits, and help them enroll, if needed."

Individuals who do not have insurance in 2015 and do not have a coverage
exemption will pay the greater of these two penalties:

* 2% of annual taxable household income, with a cap at the national average
premium for a bronze plan in the health insurance Marketplace;

* $325 per person and $162.50 per child under 18, with a cap of $975 per family.

Liberty Tax's income tax preparers can also help those who may qualify for
exemptions to the health insurance law. Some taxpayers will be able to claim the
exemption when they file their tax return. For those who cannot, Liberty Tax
will be able to assist them in applying through the Marketplace.

Liberty Tax has made it easy for taxpayers to enroll in health care coverage by
adding health insurance agents at many of its offices. Early filers can have
their taxes prepared and get their health insurance coverage before the February
15 deadline.

Liberty Tax has made the merger of health insurance information and income tax
preparation a seamless process for consumers.

Source: Liberty Tax

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   financeME

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

HEALTH INSURANCE The health care provider's perspective

LENGTH: 637  words


Dr. Mukesh Batra - Padma Shri recipient & Founder Chairman, Dr Batra's
Healthcare

Why do you think the Dubai Health Authority has implemented its new compulsory
health insurance law?

The new law has been put in place by the Dubai Health Authority in order to
assure that all employees working in the Emirate are provided with insurance
that meets at least the minimum requirements as stated in this law. It also
controls the fact that the cost of the insurance should be paid by the employer
and cannot be passed on to the employee instead. The renewal of the employment
visa will be subject to the employee having the health insurance in place, so
the employer will not be able to find a way around it and won't have any other
choice than to insure its staff.

Do you think the implementation of compulsory health insurance is a good move by
the Dubai Government?

I do believe that it's the right move from the Government in order to assure
that the employees, and mainly the expatriates, are covered. It's also a
reassurance for the employees that this is now controlled by the Government and
they don't just have to hope for the goodwill of the employer to provide
insurance. The fact that the health insurance system is now more unified and the
government health card is replaced by one insurance card for everyone is an
added bonus.

In terms of patient visits, what difference have you noticed?

Patients come to us more confidently. Now with the knowledge that there is
insurance in place, the hesitation of visiting the clinic has lessened. This has
proved to be a positive outcome in terms of patients' visits.

By imposing laws like these, the Dubai Government shows that they care. Not only
for their own, but also for all the people who choose to work in Dubai and help
build this country. It improves the position of the workers, especially those
that are more at risk, and makes Dubai a place where people feel happy to work,
knowing that they are being taken care of.

Dr. Atul Aundhekar, Chief Medical Director & General Practitioner, iCare Clinics

Why do you think the Dubai Health Authority has implemented its new compulsory
health insurance law?

Having easy access to health is everyone's right, it is an incredible initiative
taken by DHA because we see a tremendous amount of people who are using
un-prescribed medicines and are unable to pay for their basic health checkups.
By having health insurance, they will have a better access to treatments in the
hospitals and medical centres. This campaign will benefit almost 700,000 people
in UAE.

Do you think the implementation of compulsory health insurance is a good move by
the Dubai Government?

Yes, definitely it is an excellent move by Dubai Government. This initiative is
indeed an indication that Dubai Government is committed to the well-being of all
Dubai residents and shows the care aspect of the Government. With the
implementation of this new law, people would benefit from the high standards of
medical services available in Dubai.

In terms of patient visits, what difference have you noticed?

There has been a better turnover in terms of patients since the announcement of
the campaign.

Initially, people hesitated to visit healthcare clinics due to expensive
charges, however with the introduction of the health insurance laws, this has
increased awareness among the general public. There is a positive sentiment and
sense of security in the minds of general patients.

Health insurance policies and universal coverage leads to better healthcare
quality and effective healthcare service delivery. Optimal utilisation of
healthcare resources and better knowledge about prevention leads to healthier
societies.

It is always better for the private sector and players like "iCARE clinics" to
contribute to create healthier communities & eventually a healthier nation.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 881


                          Copyright 2015 CPI Financial
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 9, 2016 Saturday

Bill Status of An Act regarding group health insurance for eligible employees
and retirees in the town of Carver

LENGTH: 346  words

DATELINE: New York



 Boston: General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has issue the
following bill status:



 Sponsors:



 Marc R. Pacheco

 Status:     Referred to House Committee on Bills in the Third Reading



  SECTION 1. Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, the
actions of the town of Carver and its board of selectmen with respect to the
provision of health insurance and benefits provided to its employees or retirees
after the town accepted section 10 of chapter 32B of the general laws in 1966,
and all actions pursuant thereto, are hereby ratified, validated and confirmed
as if the town and its board had properly voted to approve the provision of
health insurance benefits to its employees and retirees in accordance with law.





 SECTION 2. Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, the town
of Carver shall contribute 75 per cent of the cost of the premium for group
health insurance coverage provided by the town to an eligible retiree who
retires not later than June 30, 2025 and who elects coverage under the town's
group health insurance.



 SECTION 3. Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, the town
of Carver shall contribute 50 per cent of the cost of the premium for group
health insurance coverage provided by the town to an eligible retiree who
retires after June 30, 2025 and who elects coverage under the town's group
health insurance.



 SECTION 4. Upon separation from employment with the town of Carver, an eligible
retiree may elect at the time of separation of employment to continue to
participate in the town's group health insurance program, subject to the terms
and underwriting conditions of the town's in-force insurance providers. An
eligible retiree who fails to exercise the election opportunity within 30
calendar days of retirement shall have waived the right to participate in the
town's group insurance program.



 SECTION 5. This act shall take effect upon its passage.





  In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                            October 28, 2014 Tuesday

Health insurance scheme in Dubai to be linked with visa

LENGTH: 680 words


Health insurance will be linked to the residency visa in collaboration with the
relevant authorities and will be applicable in free zones as well, says DHA
official.

The mandatory health insurance scheme for Dubai currently being rolled out in
phases will be linked to residency visas, according to a senior health official.

Essa Al Maidoor, Director-General of the Dubai Health Authority (DHA), has said
DHA will soon use direct electronic links with relevant government stakeholders
to enforce the Dubai Health Insurance law passed in 2013. "Health insurance will
be linked to the residency visa in collaboration with the relevant authorities
and will be applicable in free zones as well," he said.

Medical insurance is already compulsory for visitors coming to Dubai.

The first phase of implementation of the law will end by this month. This
requires all employers with over 1,000 employees on their sponsorship to have
health insurance in place for their workers by October 31.

"This phase of implementation applies to approximately 700,000 employees in
Dubai," said Al Maidoor.

"By mid-2016, everyone in Dubai will have mandatory access to health insurance.
So far, we are pleased with the results of the roll-out and are thankful to all
those employers who have supported us by adhering to the deadline, however,
there are still some employers who have not yet met the deadline and we urge
them to act promptly," he said.

Multiple benefits

Implementation of the law, which came into effect in mid-February 2014, seeks to
enhance the competitiveness of Dubai, regionally and globally. "Implementation
of the mandatory health insurance law has multiple benefits. First and foremost,
it provides everyone in Dubai - citizens, residents and visitors - with
universal access to health care," he explained.

"It also helps contribute to building a robust health system that is flexible
and financially sustainable. Mandatory health insurance is a tool of
sustainability of the health sector in Dubai, it helps promote healthcare
investment, leads to positive competition between health players; which benefits
patients and helps boost medical tourism," added Al Maidoor.

Dr Haider Al Yousuf, Director of Health Funding, said that the authority would
soon start a review of the compliance. "We will soon begin to review the extent
of compliance and those employers who are not insuring their workers could face
fines," he said.

He also said that the 44 insurance companies that have Dubai Health Insurance
Permits - a requirement to be able to offer insurance services in the emirate -
have witnessed substantial queries from phase one employers as well as other
employers requesting for quotations for insurance packages that are compatible
with the law for all of their employees.

Medical cover for dependents

Dr Haider added that while it is not mandatory, as per the law, for employers to
provide cover for the dependents of their employees, the DHA strongly encourages
employers to do so.

The roll-out will continue to take place in phases. Companies with 100-999
employees will have until the end of July 2015, and companies with below 100
employees have until end of June 2016 to cover their employees. All spouses,
dependents and domestic workers will also have to be covered by June 2016. "They
can start providing cover earlier, however, these dates are deadlines they must
meet," he said.

Employers can find all information they need in an Employer Information Pack
downloadable from www.isahd.ae,thewebsitededicatedtoinformationonthelaw.

asmaalizain@khaleejtimes.com

EHB coverage

> Access to general physician/ family physician.

> Referral to specialists

> Surgical procedures

> Laboratory services: Tests and investigations provided to help a doctor
diagnose an injury, illness or condition, or to monitor the effectiveness of a
particular treatment.

> Emergency services: Medical attention required for conditions that could lead
to serious disability or death if not treated immediately such as accidents or
sudden illness. Prior authorisation is not required for such cases.

> Maternity care

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 23, 2015 Friday

Rep. Gosar Introduces Legislation to Restore Competition in the Health Insurance
Market

LENGTH: 285  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of the House of Representative Paul  Gosar, U.S Government has issued the
following news release:

Today, U.S. Congressman Paul A. Gosar, D.D.S. (AZ-04) released the following
statement after introducing The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2015,
H.R. 494, legislation that would amend the McCarran-Ferguson Act which exempted
the health insurance industry from anti-trust laws:

"My legislation seeks to restore competition among health insurance companies
and correct a historical error that allowed for an exemption from federal
anti-trust and unfair competition laws. Over the decades, and rapidly since the
passage of Obamacare, the health insurance market has expanded into one of the
least transparent and most anti-competitive industries in the United States.

"After 70 years, it is apparent that the unbridled antitrust exemption created
by Congress in the 1940's was not wise. These antiquated provisions are no
longer necessary and there is no reason in law, policy or logic for the
insurance industry to have special exemptions that are different from all other
businesses in the United States.

"The government should not be picking winners or losers and the insurance
industry should also have to comply with federal anti-trust laws. As a
healthcare provider for more than 25 years I understand first-hand the
importance of a competitive health insurance market. Hospitals, doctors and
patients alike benefit when health insurers compete to provide quality coverage.
The passage of my bill into law is an important first step towards ushering in
real healthcare reform."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 23, 2015 Friday

Rep. Gosar Introduces Legislation to Restore Competition in the Health Insurance
Market

LENGTH: 285  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of the House of Representative Paul  Gosar, U.S Government has issued the
following news release:

Today, U.S. Congressman Paul A. Gosar, D.D.S. (AZ-04) released the following
statement after introducing The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2015,
H.R. 494, legislation that would amend the McCarran-Ferguson Act which exempted
the health insurance industry from anti-trust laws:

"My legislation seeks to restore competition among health insurance companies
and correct a historical error that allowed for an exemption from federal
anti-trust and unfair competition laws. Over the decades, and rapidly since the
passage of Obamacare, the health insurance market has expanded into one of the
least transparent and most anti-competitive industries in the United States.

"After 70 years, it is apparent that the unbridled antitrust exemption created
by Congress in the 1940's was not wise. These antiquated provisions are no
longer necessary and there is no reason in law, policy or logic for the
insurance industry to have special exemptions that are different from all other
businesses in the United States.

"The government should not be picking winners or losers and the insurance
industry should also have to comply with federal anti-trust laws. As a
healthcare provider for more than 25 years I understand first-hand the
importance of a competitive health insurance market. Hospitals, doctors and
patients alike benefit when health insurers compete to provide quality coverage.
The passage of my bill into law is an important first step towards ushering in
real healthcare reform."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 8, 2013 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Aiming to demystify health care law Five Questions o Ryan Barker sees addressing
costs as the next step in reform effort.

BYLINE: BY JIM DOYLE jdoyle@post-dispatch.com 314-340-8372

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 1149 words


In the last 2 ½ years, Ryan Barker has given more than 200 presentations about
the Affordable Care Act to local chambers of commerce, senior groups, hospitals
and health systems.

Barker, vice president of health policy for the Missouri Foundation for Health,
says he has encountered a lot of skepticism about the new health care law in his
travels throughout the state and also a yearning to learn more about how the law
will affect individuals and businesses.

"In every community there seems to be an agreement that the health care system
is broken, but there are different ideas about what would be effective," he
said. "We have a very diverse state. ... People come at this from different life
perspectives."

The Supreme Court upheld the Obama administration's health insurance law last
year, and parts of it have already been implemented. But the law's most
significant elements are scheduled to take effect next year, when health
insurance exchanges begin operating and individuals start facing penalties if
they do not obtain insurance.

Meanwhile, the number of attendees at Barker's presentations has grown. People
in rural areas often speak of the need for individuals to take personal
responsibility for their own health, he said, but residents throughout the state
seem curious about how the insurance exchanges will work.

The St. Louis-based Missouri Foundation for Health, which calls itself a
nonpartisan organization, is prohibited by its bylaws from political lobbying.

"We don't want to convince anyone that this law is good or bad," Barker said.
"I'm just trying to tell you what's in the law."

It's a tough task. The law itself comprises about 2,500 pages.

Barker sat down recently for a brief interview to discuss the law. Here's an
edited transcript:

- How will the Affordable Care Act affect Missouri's small businesses?

What the Affordable Care Act really does is give small businesses new options
for health insurance for their employees. The biggest way it does this is
through the creation of health insurance exchanges, which allow small businesses
to pool together with other businesses and create larger insurance pools to
spread the risk among a greater number of people. ... The (law) gave states the
option of creating their own health insurance exchange, either partnering with
the federal government or having the federal government run an exchange for the
state. At this point it looks like Missouri will have a federally run exchange
starting Jan. 1, 2014.

- How will the law affect Missouri's poor?

One of the things that came out of the Supreme Court decision related to the
Affordable Care Act last summer ... was a provision in the (law) that would have
expanded (states') Medicaid program, which is public health insurance for
low-income individuals and families. ... The Supreme Court decision last summer
made this an option for states. So currently, the state Legislature is in
session January through May and they will be talking about and debating this
question of whether Missouri should expand our Medicaid program up to about 133
percent of poverty, which for a family of four is about $25,000 per year.

- How will the law affect Missouri's hospitals and health systems?

It's one of the big questions and really relates to the question before
(concerning) the Medicaid expansion. ... Part of the way that the (law) paid for
itself was to say, 'There is a lot of funding that comes from the federal
government to hospitals and health care systems to help them care for those that
don't have health insurance.' So the Affordable Care Act said, 'Well if we're
going to expand coverage through the insurance exchanges (and) through Medicaid
and decrease the number of uninsured by approximately 32 million Americans, then
we don't need all of this funding for the uninsured that currently exists.' So
the Affordable Care Act has large cuts to that type of funding.

The interesting question that now exists is that Medicaid expansion is optional.
So if Missouri would choose not to expand Medicaid, we would still have a large
portion of our low-income population that would be left uninsured because they
don't have Medicaid, but the hospitals and health care systems will still see
these large cuts to their funding to help care for the uninsured. So it really
puts the hospitals in a bind in terms of financial viability. ... We also see a
lot of new provisions in the Affordable Care Act around increasing the quality
of care in hospitals, new models of care related to coordination and increased
quality that they are providing to their patients.

- What are some of the most common misconceptions about the Affordable Care Act?

Common misconceptions that we hear from community meetings around the state:

One, that all businesses regardless of size have to offer health insurance or
else they will pay a penalty. That is not true. So if you have less than 50
full-time equivalent employees, there are incentives to try to get you to offer
health insurance, but there is no fine or penalty if you do not offer health
insurance.

Another misconception we hear is the idea from seniors - who are really worried
about being cut off from coverage from Medicare - that there are these drastic
cuts, changes to eligibility, huge changes in the amount of monthly premiums
they have to pay. That is also not true, and in our community presentations we
walk through what the changes are and how they impact them.

And the third (misconception) is that we do still hear out in the community is
that immigrants that are undocumented are eligible for insurance under the
Affordable Care Act, which is not true. If anything, it strengthens the laws
that are in place preventing those who are here illegally with having health
insurance through the Affordable Care Act.

- To what extent will the new law help contain health care costs?

It's a big question, and we often say that the Affordable Care Act for the most
part focused on coverage and new insurance regulations, and then focused on
things like prevention and quality.

It did tinker around the edges with costs and cost savings, but really that is a
conversation that we still need to have. We often refer to that as sort of the
next step in health reform. I think we're seeing those conversations happen at
the federal level right now, and it will be interesting to see whether we have
those conversations just at the federal level or do states have a role in trying
to control health care costs within each given state.

---

Ryan Barker

Title - Vice president of health policy, Missouri Foundation for Health.

Age - 37

Career - Harm reduction specialist at Outside in social service agency,
Portland, Ore.

Education - Masters in public policy administration, University of Missouri-St.
Louis, and a masters in social work, University of Cincinnati

Personal - Lives in Tower Grove East, with husband Lawrence Miskel, and a
13-year-old son.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ERIK M. LUNSFORD o elunsford@post-dispatch.com   Ryan Barker

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           January 31, 2015 Saturday

New Jersey Law Requires Encryption of Personal Data by Health Insurance Carriers

LENGTH: 622  words


In response to data breaches that have occurred across the United States,
several of which involved the theft of laptop computers, beginning August 1,
2015, health insurance carriers in New Jersey will be obligated to do more to
protect patient information than simply comply with the federal Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPAA"). A new law, signed by Governor
Chris Christie on January 9, 2015, specifically requires health insurance
carriers to encrypt electronically gathered and stored personal information.


The key terms in the law are defined as follows:
"Health insurance carriers" means "an insurance company, health service
corporation, hospital service corporation, medical service corporation, or
health maintenance organization authorized to issue health benefits plans in
this State."
"Personal information" means "an individual's first name or first initial and
last name linked with any one or more of the following data elements: (1) Social
Security number; (2) driver's license number of State identification card
number; (3) address; or (4) identifiable health information."
Although New Jersey already has a law requiring notification to individuals in
the event of a data breach of their personal information, the new law is aimed
at preventing breaches in the first place and further reducing the risks of
misappropriation and identity theft.
In addition, while HIPAA mandates the protection of personal information, HIPAA
suggests encryption only when sufficient risk is identified and encryption is
reasonable. New Jersey's new law goes a step further by mandating that
allcomputerized data be rendered "unreadable, undecipherable, or otherwise
unusable by an unauthorized person." The law applies to "end user computer
systems" (e.g., desktop and laptop computers, tablets, and mobile devices), and
to "computerized records transmitted across public networks."
With the new law, password-protected user access will no longer be legally
sufficient security for protecting personal information. Failure to comply will
be deemed a violation of New Jersey's Consumer Fraud Act, which can result in
treble damages.
What Should New Jersey Health Insurance Carriers Do to Prepare?
Health insurance carriers inside New Jersey should do the following:
Revise existing risk assessment criteria and modify any protocol that permits
discretion with regard to data protection.
Confirm that no end-user computer system, including laptops or mobile devices,
contains unencrypted personal information.  Establish protocols and procedures
to ensure that all personal identification on end-use computer systems is
secured by encryption, regardless of the potential difficulty, cost, or
maintenance of such a program.
Establish routine audits/testing to confirm and ensure the integrity of the
encryption programs once installed. Scans should be performed to determine
whether hidden or unknown repositories of personal information (e.g., email
servers) are contained within the environment.
Review any "Bring Your Own Device" policy and procedures to ensure that
employees' personal devices used for business have the necessary encryption of
protected personal information.
What Should Health Insurance Carriers Outside New Jersey Do?
Health insurance carriers outside New Jersey should stay tuned. While a similar
law already exists in Massachusetts, it would be reasonable to forecast that
other states will follow suit in the near term.
The federal government also has taken heed. As recently as last week, it was
reported by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services that the agency is
adding layers of encryption to the HealthCare.gov website to protect enrollees.
2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

Cochran offers Obamacare repeal bill despite White House twists

LENGTH: 480  words


U.S. Senator Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) admonished the Obama administration for its
desperate move to effectively reverse a major tenant of its health insurance
reform law--minimum standards for all health insurance policies.


The White House announced that an estimated five million Americans who have lost
their health insurance because of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
(PPACA) would be exempt from purchasing policies on government-sponsored health
insurance exchanges and be allowed to buy private-sector catastrophic coverage
without being penalized. Catastrophic plans typically do not offer all of the
essential health benefits recently required for coverage by the administration.

The administration announced the exemption just hours before Cochran introduced
the Health Insurance Accountability Act to fully repeal Obamacare if, according
to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the number of uninsured at any
point after Jan. 1, 2014, is greater than the number of uninsured at the time
the law was enacted in March 2010.
"The President is again trying to salvage his signature achievement by twisting
the law to mask its flaws. Millions have lost their health insurance because of
the Affordable Care Act and now the administration is second-guessing its own
support of minimum health standards, a cornerstone of the law," Cochran said.
The Health Insurance Accountability Act introduced by Cochran would require the
GAO to conduct a study in consultation with the U.S. Census Bureau to determine
the number of individuals in the United States who are uninsured now as opposed
to the number of uninsured when PPACA was enacted. If more Americans are left
uninsured, Obamacare would be repealed.
"The point of this legislation is to hold the President and his administration
accountable for this law and its disastrous implementation. There is no reason
individuals, families and businesses should continue to be subjected to such a
gigantic, intrusive and expensive experiment if the law is not even
accomplishing its primary goals. If it's not working and can't be fixed, get rid
of it," said Cochran, who has since 2009 repeatedly voted against Obamacare.
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services last week reported that about
800,000 individuals have received Medicaid eligibility determinations from the
enrollment website and that just 365,000 individuals had selected insurance
plans from the state and federal health insurance exchanges that were launched
on Oct. 1. The enrollment rate represents less than one percent of those who
were uninsured at the time of the law's enactment.

Original cosponsors to this legislation include Senators Roger Wicker (R-Miss.),
John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Mike
Enzi (R-Wyo), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.).© 2013 Legal
Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                           December 26, 2009 Saturday

Taking care of your health in the UAE

BYLINE: Fatma Salem

LENGTH: 481 words


Dubai All UAE nationals are eligible for free health insurance that covers their
expenses at public and private hospitals across the country as well as their
emergency treatment abroad, according to Health Authority-Abu Dhabi, the UAE
health insurance scheme and Dubai Government, which announced a comprehensive
cover to be provided to government employees and their dependants.

President His Highness Shaikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan issued a law in 2005
that makes it compulsory for business owners and employers in Abu Dhabi to
provide health insurance coverage for their employees.

Based on that law, The Health Authority-Abu Dhabi (HAAD) implemented in 2008 a
compulsory health cover scheme for nationals, including for periodic medical
examination called 'Weqaya' and a health insurance scheme, 'Thiqa' in Abu Dhabi.
According to the scheme, treatment and services will be provided by both public
and private sectors, in line with Daman's benefits schedules that are legalised
by the Abu Dhabi's health authority.

Daman

The National Health Insurance Company 'Daman' worked as a third party
administrator (TPA) company through its Thiqa programme, the exclusive company
providing benefits to all UAE Nationals.

Under this scheme, the employer must insure the employee, his wife and three of
his children, under 18 years. Health insurance companies should pay the expenses
of the health services for the insured. All employers are by law obliged to
enrol with he health insurance system and must insure their employees.

While health establishments in the government sector undertake to provide
medical services to the insured, private health institutions on the other hand
will have to obtain a licence from the authority to provide such services to the
insured. Medical institutions should provide the insured with services in case
of emergency, for which they will be paid back by the insurance companies. The
health insurance scheme covers medical check-ups and primary health care
provided at clinics and medical centres, laboratory tests and X-rays as well as
the cost of medicine.

Health insurance scheme for UAE nationals is managed by the national health
insurance company, Daman and covers over 580,000 Emiratis.

Expatriates are also included in medical insurance. Shaikh Khalifa also issued
Law 23,  the Abu Dhabi Health Insurance Regulation Bill. Thereafter, HAAD
enforced the Law in 2006, which obliges all employers and sponsors in Abu Dhabi
to provide health insurance for expatriates that are residing or working in the
emirate.  It includes families and all individuals sponsored by expatriates
residing in the capital. On the other hand, the health authority expanded its
efforts to include expatriates with special needs, orphans, prisoners, detainees
and inmates.

Expatriates in Dubai and the Northern Emirates' are also covered by a health
insurance system since 2008.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2009 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                           November 17, 2016 Thursday

No more extensions for getting health insurance in Dubai

BYLINE: Mary Achkhanian, Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 906 words


Employers and sponsors will face penalties from year-end if they don't get a
health insurance for their employees and dependents

Mary Achkhanian, Staff Reporter

Dubai: Employers and sponsors who have not yet purchased health insurance for
their employees and their dependents, respectively, will have to start paying
penalties from the end of this year, with no further extensions to be given, a
top Dubai Health Authority (DHA) official has said.

Since the roll-out of the Dubai Health Authority's (DHA) mandatory health
insurance scheme, which is in line with the Health Insurance Law No. 11 of 2013,
all Dubai visa holders must have had access to medical insurance by June 30,
2016, but 12 per cent of the population have still not been covered, said Dr
Haidar Al Yousuf, Director of Health Funding at DHA, told Gulf News.

"There will be no more extensions given as the deadline was actually in June
2016. Those who haven't purchased a health insurance for their employees and
dependents are in violation of the law. What was extended earlier was only the
deadline on penalties, but by the end of this year, the fines will become
active," he said.

Up to date, he said, 88 per cent of the target population in Dubai, almost 3.5
million people, are already benefiting from the mandatory health insurance.
"Over the next month, the remaining 12 per cent need to have the insurance [or
their employees or sponsors] will be liable to penalties after that."

Dr Yousuf was speaking on the sidelines of the 3rd annual health insurance
congress held in Dubai on Thursday, which was held under the theme of
'Innovation and Sustainability' and which addressed the tremendous opportunities
as well as challenges that await Dubai ahead of the final systemic
implementation of the mandatory health insurance.

"People need to start thinking [in the right way], because the fines are more
expensive than the cost of insurance itself. The fine is Dh500 per month per
employer, and the basic benefit package starts from Dh550 person per year. It
makes more sense to purchase that insurance as it protects not only the employee
but also the employer," Dr Yousuf said.

The law mandates health insurance for everyone, the responsibility for providing
the insurance lays with the employers first, and for those who don't have
employers, it lays with the sponsor. The law also mandates tools that ensure
people do get the health insurance, so it became linked to the residency visa
process. The law also prohibits the employer or sponsor from deducting the
amount of premium money from the salary of the employee. It is illegal by law
and punishable, he explained.

Speaking further about the 'dependents' category, making up one million of the
population, which includes spouses, children and domestic workers such as
houseboys, maids and nannies, he said it is the responsibility of the employee
himself if his employer doesn't provide insurance to his dependents to purchase
insurance for them. Only less than 30 per cent of dependents of employees are
currently covered by companies.

"The government has ensured that there are affordable packages in the market,
starting from Dh600. With around Dh2,000, the dependents can all be insured. It
is an affordable amount. The essential benefit plan covers doctors' visits,
referral to specialists, surgical operations, maternity, emergency services,
investigations, medication and all benefits required."

There have been lots of cases where uninsured dependents have fallen sick and
required to pay huge bills, he said.

"We have seen many cases where people had a housemaid without a health insurance
who suddenly fell sick and her hospital bill went up to Dh60,000, which they had
to pay. Recently, we had seen a case with an Emirati family whose housemaid went
into the intensive care unit (ICU) and had a very complicated case. Their total
bill was Dh165,000 and it was fully covered by insurance. He only paid Dh500 as
the deductible," he said.

The law was designed to make sure the entire system is sustainable and no one
party falls short of cash as result of having to pay for health care, he added.

In regards to utilising innovation in the health insurance sector, Dr Yousuf
said the DHA has electronic systems that work to ensure people are protected,
have access to their health care package and understand how to use it.

"We have specifically designed a complaints portal called iPROMeS, where any
person who is not satisfied with the services provided by the insurance company
can reach us directly."

Also, Dr Yousuf advised people to have a look at the packages from all insurance
companies licensed by DHA through www.isahd.ae and choose their best options.

The congress was hosted by Gulf Medical University (GMU), which is owned and run
by Thumbay Group, in association with Aafia Medical Billing Services. The event
was presided by chief guest Shaikh Mohammad Maktoum Juma Al Maktoum, Chairman of
MBM Groups, and attended by industry leaders and policymakers representing the
government, and health care industry including insurance providers and
hospitals.

Dr Yousuf addressed delegates advising them to focus on the dependents category
in the market and to appeal to them and provide them with cost-effective
packages that deliver good quality of care to people.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/34/57/21/147951368449.jpg

Local paramedics quickly transfer the injured patient from the ambulance to the
Rashid Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2016 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday

Political parties, rights activists reiterate rejection of health insurance law

LENGTH: 707 words


CAIRO: Political parties and rights activists have angrily rejected suggestions
that there exists no real opposition to the draft health insurance law currently
before parliament.

During an edition of satellite channel Dream TV's "Sabah Dream" program
broadcast last week, Health Minister Hatem El-Gabaly said that there exists a
broad consensus in favor of the draft law. He alleged that the 63 civil society
organizations and political parties that signed a document rejecting the draft
"only exist on paper."

El-Gabaly added that the Wafd and Tagammu parties have expressed support for the
draft, claims which Mohamed Abdel-Aziz Shaaban and Mohamed Zahran, from the
Tagammu and Wafd parties respectively, rejected during a press conference held
at the Journalists' Syndicate on Thursday.

"I affirm that the Tagammu party rejects this draft law and that we have not
been consulted on it by the government," Shaaban said, adding that the state is
under an obligation to pay all the healthcare costs of individuals covered by
the health insurance system.

The government set in motion plans to change Egypt's health insurance system
four years ago. From the outset health activists have warned that the plans -
which will require health insurance beneficiaries to pay a percentage cost of
treatment received in hospital as well as a percentage of the cost of medicines
- will render treatment under the health insurance system out of reach for many
Egyptians.

In September 2008, the government's plans received a setback when the State
Council's Administrative Court held that a prime ministerial decree which sought
to create a holding company for health care and transfer the ownership of all
health insurance clinics and hospitals to it was unconstitutional.

Member of the Committee for the Defense of the Right to Health Mohamed Hassan
Khalil told the press conference that in December 2009 the State Council also
issued a non-binding opinion in which it rejected the current draft law, citing
the unconstitutionality of 12 of its articles.

Khalil condemned the health minister's denial of the existence of popular
opposition to the draft law as well as the failure of the government to make
public the numerous versions of the law that have been drafted since the last
draft was revealed in a newspaper in June 2008.

According to Khalil, nine versions of the draft law have been drawn up since
that time. The Al-Ahaly newspaper on Wednesday printed what it said is the
latest version of the draft law.

Article 9 of the law that appeared in Al-Ahaly provides that health insurance
beneficiaries will pay 30 percent of the cost of treatment and medicine outside
the hospital and 25 percent of these costs while in hospital. These costs will
increase in line with inflation.

The draft law also refers to what it calls "personal health crises," which it
defines as "serious, life-threatening emergency illnesses whose treatment
exhausts entirely, or exceeds, the financial resources allocated to the
patient."

Article 5 of the draft law provides health insurance coverage of such illnesses
and is made by prime ministerial decree in individual cases.

Speakers warned during the press conference that in effect this means the health
insurance system proposed by the government is not comprehensive, and only
covers certain illnesses.

Zahran said that this "will force people to seek private healthcare treatment."

"People can't afford to pay out of their own pockets," Zahran added.

Mohamed Abdel-Hakim, director of the Egyptian Institute for the Right to
Development echoed this.

He questioned how female rural workers, "who earn 10 piasters per hour" would be
able to afford the cost of healthcare treatment under this scheme, adding, "the
state doesn't own healthcare, the people do. It can't therefore sell something
it doesn't own."

Alaa Ghanem, health and human rights program director at the Egyptian Initiative
for Personal Rights, added that 52 percent of people in rural areas will not be
able to afford treatment under the law.

He demanded that the government increase spending on healthcare, saying that for
the last 10 years expenditure has stood at 5 percent and must increase to at
least 10 percent.

"Healthcare is a right, not a gift," Ghanem said.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2010 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 12, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HEALTH CARE LAW'S SUPPORT HOLDS STEADY

BYLINE: BARBARA FEDER OSTROV, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 272 words


A new Field Poll shows that 48 percent of likely voters would uphold a
California law requiring many employers to provide health insurance to workers,
while 31 percent would vote to repeal it.

Public opinion on Proposition 72, slated for the November ballot, remains
largely unchanged since a previous Field Poll conducted in June, said Field Poll
director Mark DiCamillo.

Many voters who support upholding the law say it would extend health insurance
to more Californians, and some of those who oppose it believe it will increase
the cost of doing business in the state, according to questions placed on the
poll by the California HealthCare Foundation, a non-partisan health policy think
tank.

Proposition 72 is a referendum on the Health Insurance Act (SB2), signed into
law by former Gov. Gray Davis but put on hold by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenneger. The
referendum was sponsored by the California Chamber of Commerce and a restaurant
industry group, who oppose the Health Insurance Act.

The Health Insurance Act would require employers to purchase health insurance
for employees or pay into a state fund that would provide it. Nearly 1 million
uninsured California workers would receive health benefits under the law.
Employers with 200 workers or more would have to provide health insurance to
employees and their families by 2006. Businesses with 50 to 199 workers would
have to provide insurance for employees only by 2007.

CHART: WES KILLINGBECK -- MERCURY NEWS
More voters likely to approve Prop. 72
Source: California Field Poll
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                            March 17, 1992, Tuesday

CARL SCHRAMM PRESIDENT HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA TOPIC:
HEALTH-CARE REFORM

BYLINE: Today's interview was conducted by insurance reporter Paul; Dykewicz.

SECTION: INSURANCE, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 709 words


Carl Schramm has been president of the Health Insurance Association of America
since 1987. Previously he was on the faculty of the Johns Hopkins University
School of Public Health in Baltimore, Md., where he founded its Center for
Hospital Finance and Management.

Q: Health care has been one of the leading political topics of the year. here do
you see the debate heading? What do you expect to happen?

A: Not very much. We're having a better-informed debate than last year and
ensuring better informed debate over the next four or five years.

If, in the end, major health-care reform will come, it will take a long time to
produce it. The history of Congress - and we've seen this ever since World War
II - is that it takes four or five years of gestation before a major piece of
health legislation either becomes law or is thrown on the junk heap. By my
lights, we're in the first or second year of a five-year process.

Q: : Do you view this heightened attention on health care as an opportunity, and
what do you plan to do to take advantage of it?

A: : We plan to educate the Congress and to use this opportunity to increase the
appreciation of Congress about this industry and what we can do. Eighty- seven
percent of the population is insured now, since 1945 when the industry began.

Q: What about the problem of the uninsured?

A: : We've proposed a program that we've been pushing at the state level. It
focuses on small-group reforms, corrections in the tax law as it regards
individual employers and the deductibility of health insurance, and Erisa
(Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) reform. It should go some
distance in solving the problem.

Q: : What about the solutions that have been offered by President Bush and other
political leaders?

A: President Bush has a very good plan, and he has done a very important thing
in advancing the debate by weighing in. He is supportive of the right kind of
change. Namely, his focus is squarely on the 13 percent of the population
without health insurance. His proposal is based on the advantages and the
strength of the present health insurance market, and it is particularly well
focused around the important promise of managed care.

Q: What about the "play-or-pay" proposal, which would create a risk pool that
would require contributions from employers who don't provide private health
insurance to their employees?

A: It's a bad idea from the insurance perspective. As it is conceived in
Washington, it is a "back-door" approach to national health insurance to
establish a government authority that will operate at rates subsidized by new
taxes and will eventually take all our business away. A play-or-pay approach
would be the last chapter written on private health insurance.

Q: What about national health insurance?

A: In national health insurance, there is no role for private health insurance
companies. Those who favor a national health plan would put us out of business,
and they're explicit about that.

Q: Less extensive changes in the existing system have been offered by Sen. Lloyd
Bentsen (D-Texas), chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and other
congressional leaders. What do you think of these ideas?

A: They're headed in the right direction, provided they let reform of the
insurance market take place at the state level.

Q: Why do you favor state solutions?

A: There is no national delivery system. It's all done on a regional or local
basis. Many insurance companies operate nationally, but you still have a
state-by-state focus. Our industry has always been regulated on the state level.
The state legislators have been very active in this area and will continue to do
so.

Q: What needs to be included as part of major health reform?

A: Cost containment, managed care, small-group employers health reform and
reform of Erisa through the exemption of state-mandated benefits for insured
plans. There has to be a revisitation of the tax treatment for self-employed
individuals who now do enjoy only a 25 percent deduction in insurance costs
whereas a big employer gets 100 percent.

The last thing I would point out is that the president is heading in the right
direction with medical malpractice reform.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

EDITOR-NOTE: PREMIUM TALK

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION: PHOTO;;

SCHRAMM

                  Copyright 1992 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              79 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright (c) 2011 Saint Louis University School of Law, All
                                Rights Reserved.
             Saint Louis University Journal of Health Law & Policy

                                      2011

             Saint Louis University Journal of Health Law & Policy

                     5 St. Louis U. J. Health L. & Pol'y 1

LENGTH: 2549 words

ARTICLE: FOREWORD: IMPLEMENTING THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

NAME: SIDNEY D. WATSON *

BIO:


* J.D., Professor of Law, Saint Louis University School of Law Center for Health
Law Studies.

 LEXISNEXIS SUMMARY:
 ... The symposium brought together leading academics and public officials to
examine key issues that federal and state governments will need to address as
they implement the ACA, including its policy structure that seeks to use
increased competition and accountability to expand access to more affordable and
better quality health insurance.  ... Economist Len Nichols, George Mason
University Director of the Center for Health Policy Research and Ethics and
Professor of Health Policy in the College of Health and Human Services, then
offered a framework for the day's discussion in his talk, Competition,
Collaboration, or Regulations: When is Each Best in Health Markets?  ... Timothy
McBride, Professor and Associate Dean for Public Health at Washington University
in Saint Louis, spoke on, Creating State Health Insurance Exchanges--Lessons
from Federal Employees Health Benefit Plans .  ... Professor Jost concludes that
while the ACA's failure to regulate most of these forms of health insurance does
not pose a significant risk to the ACA's new health insurance marketplace
structure, the failure to regulate association health plans and self-insured
plans poses a potentially serious threat to the ACA's reform of the individual
and small group market and the stability of the new Health Insurance Exchanges.
... Just as importantly, the research project identified systemic barriers to
obtaining Medicaid managed care quality data from both states and managed care
plans.  ... The article concludes by recommending a long-term care insurance
mandate similar to the ACA's health insurance mandate for preventive and acute
care services is critical to the sustainability of long term care coverage.  ...
The article urges states to expand scope of practice laws to permit
e-prescribing to the limits allowed by federal DEA rules and proposes a
structure for a new model state law to modernize and harmonize state licensing
laws.

TEXT:
 [*1]  On March 4, 2011 the Saint Louis University School of Law Center for
Health Law Studies and the Saint Louis University Journal of Health Law & Policy
hosted the 23rd annual Health Law Symposium, Implementing the Affordable Care
Act (ACA): Fairness, Accountability and Competition. Passed on March 23, 2010,
the ACA guarantees all Americans access to quality affordable health insurance.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that by 2019 it will provide insurance
to an additional 32 million Americans by expanding Medicaid to cover all poor
Americans, reforming the individual and small group private insurance market,
and creating new federal income tax credit subsidies to make health insurance
premiums affordable for moderate income families. The ACA authorizes new Health
Insurance Exchanges to promote private insurance competition and create a more
robust marketplace for individual and small group private insurance. It also
sets new minimum standards for the content of health insurance plans sold in the
individual and small group market, and requires coverage of "essential health
benefits" by placing caps on patients' out-of-pocket liability.

   The symposium brought together leading academics and public officials to
examine key issues that federal and state governments will need to address as
they implement the ACA, including its policy structure that seeks to use
increased competition and accountability to expand access to more affordable and
better quality health insurance. Almost 200 people participated in the event.
The audience included attorneys, medical professionals, University faculty and
students, public officials, representatives of health care institutions,
insurers, social services agencies and patient advocacy groups. The talks,
commentaries and audience discussion are available online at
http://slu.edu/x49259.xml.

   The day began with Jay Angoff, Senior Advisor to the Secretary of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, delivering the keynote address in which
he provided an overview of the legislation and key implementation issues.
Economist Len Nichols, George Mason University  [*2]  Director of the Center for
Health Policy Research and Ethics and Professor of Health Policy in the College
of Health and Human Services, then offered a framework for the day's discussion
in his talk, Competition, Collaboration, or Regulations: When is Each Best in
Health Markets? Thomas (Tim) Greaney, Saint Louis University School of Law
Center for Health Law Studies Chester A. Meyers Professor of Law who is a
leading expert on competition theory, provided commentary highlighting the
antitrust and other legal issues that arise as the ACA attempts to promote new
models of health insurance and health care competition.

   The conversation then turned to "Building Health Insurance Exchanges."
Timothy Jost, Robert L. Willett Family Professor of Law at Washington and Lee
University School of Law, addressed, Health Insurance Exchanges: Difficult
Issues. Timothy McBride, Professor and Associate Dean for Public Health at
Washington University in Saint Louis, spoke on, Creating State Health Insurance
Exchanges--Lessons from Federal Employees Health Benefit Plans. Judy Baker,
Director of Region VII U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and John M.
Huff, Director of the Missouri Department of Insurance, each provided their
perspectives on key federal and state implementation issues for the new Health
Insurance Exchanges.

   The next set of speakers focused on "Expanding Across Populations: Exchanges,
Medicaid and Private Insurance," identifying challenges that policy makers will
need to tackle as the U.S. continues to rely on multiple sources of health
insurance with people moving among various types of insurance. Sara Rosenbaum,
Hirsh Professor of Health Law and Policy and Chair of the Department of Health
Policy at George Washington University Medical Center, gave an address entitled,
At the Edge: The Challenges of Aligning Medicaid and Exchange Populations. Amy
B. Monahan, Associate Professor at the University of Minnesota Law School
focused on, PPACA and the Large Group Market. Margaret T. Donnelly, Director of
the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services and Ronald J. Levy,
Director of the Missouri Department of Social Services, added Missouri state
perspectives. Judy Baker spoke again to offer insights from the Regional U.S.
Department of HHS.

   The symposium concluded with Sarah Somers, Senior Attorney with the National
Health Law Project, speaking on accountability in Medicaid in her talk, Let the
Sun Shine In: Transparency and Accountability in Medicaid and Other
Publicly-Funded Insurance Programs. Dr. Ian McCaslin, Director of MOHealth Net,
the Missouri Medicaid program, commented along with Judy Baker and myself.

   The articles that appear in this symposium issue build on the talks presented
at the March 2011 symposium. They reflect the richness of that day's
conversations, a variety of disciplinary perspectives, careful scholarship and
thoughtful health policy. Professor Nichols' article, which  [*3]  opens this
symposium issue, is titled, Making Health Markets Work Better Through Targeted
Doses of Competition, Regulation and Collaboration. The article identifies how
health market rules can be altered to preserve key freedoms and personal choices
while improving distributive justice, economic efficiency and universal access
to vital health services. Professor Nichols posits that health reform and
economic efficiency can be complementary. The article describes how the ACA
provides some, although not all, the tools needed to improve market performance.
It then goes on to identify specific market-enhancing legal reforms that, when
added to provisions of the ACA, will further improve market competition, access
and quality.

   Professor Jost examines the ACA's private insurance marketplace reforms in,
Loopholes in the Affordable Care Act: Regulatory Gaps and Border Crossing
Techniques and How to Address Them. The article examines seven types of health
insurance that the ACA, either intentionally or through drafting oversights,
fails to regulate comprehensively: grandfathered plans, early retiree plans,
health care sharing ministries, short term limited duration policies, excepted
benefits, association health plans and self insured plans. The article provides
a detailed description of each of these forms of health insurance, explains
pre-ACA regulatory requirements and unpacks the ACA's new statutory provisions.
Professor Jost concludes that while the ACA's failure to regulate most of these
forms of health insurance does not pose a significant risk to the ACA's new
health insurance marketplace structure, the failure to regulate association
health plans and self-insured plans poses a potentially serious threat to the
ACA's reform of the individual and small group market and the stability of the
new Health Insurance Exchanges. The article urges state and federal policy
makers to issue regulatory guidance to clarify that association health plans are
subject to the more stringent rules governing the individual and small group
market, and to ensure that only large employers who can successfully self-fund
their employees' health care costs without the protections that an insurance
product offers should be able to claim the less-protective regulatory regime of
self-insured status.

   In, ACA, the Large Group Market, and Content Regulation: What's A State to
Do?, Amy B. Monahan also examines the ACA's impact on self-insured plans,
exploring the ACA's provisions regulating the content of health insurance
coverage and the implications of the ACA requirement that individual and small
group insurance cover an "essential health benefits" package that does not reach
large employer group health insurance. As the article points out, given the
reach of ERISA 514 preemption, large employers who purchase health insurance
will remain subject to state laws regulating the content of health insurance
coverage while employers who self insure will determine the content of their
insurance in a regulatory  [*4]  vacuum. The article urges state policymakers to
use the ACA's new federal "essential health benefits" content regulation as an
opportunity to revisit the parameters of their state-level content regulation.
Professor Monahan urges state lawmakers to critically re-examine whether
existing state content mandates should be retained in the large group market or
whether employees and employers would be better served by either adopting the
ACA's essential benefit package as a state law requirement for their large group
market or doing away with content regulation altogether.

   Creating Multi-State Qualified Health Plans in Health Insurance Exchanges:
Lessons for Rural and Urban America from the Federal Employees Health Benefits
Program, turns to the new Health Insurance Exchanges and examines how state and
federal policy makers should structure plan offerings to make competition work
better in order to assure consumers a meaningful choice of insurance offerings.
Sidney D. Watson, Yolonda Campbell and Timothy McBride discuss the new
Multi-State Qualified Health Plans ("MSQHPs") that will be offered nationwide
through the new Health Insurance Exchanges. MSQHPs are a private insurance
alternative to the hotly debated public option, where the United States Office
of Personnel Management ("OPM") will negotiate with private insurers to offer
the new MSQHPs using a contracting model similar to what it now uses for plans
offered through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program ("FEHBP"). This
article uses enrollment data from the FEHBP to analyze the potential role and
impact MSQHPS are likely to have on plan choice and competition in the Health
Insurance Exchanges. It concludes that OPM will need to be careful to avoid
inadvertently creating a dominate set of nationwide MSQHPs that could
destabilize the competition the Exchanges are intended to foster.

   Sarah Rosenbaum's and Benjamin Sommers' article, Rethinking Medicaid in the
New Normal, turns to Medicaid and how it intersects with the new Health
Insurance Exchange offerings. The article explains Medicaid's historic role as
both health insurance and as a funder of safety net social services, and its new
role as part of the ACA's layered approach to health insurance with Medicaid for
the poorest Americans and Health Insurance Exchange private insurance subsidized
through federal premium tax credits for those with slightly higher incomes. The
article presents original empirical data drawn from U.S. Census Bureau surveys
documenting fluctuations in earnings among low-income Americans showing that
half of these households will cross the income line between Medicaid and
Exchange private insurance in the course of a year. The authors offer
policymakers a number of regulatory approaches to mitigate the potential
negative impact of these disruptions in insurance coverage including: using
annual enrollment periods, requiring health plans to sell in both Medicaid and
the Health Insurance Exchanges so individuals and  [*5]  families can keep their
plan network and primary care providers even as their insurance changes, and
using the ACA's new State Innovation Waivers and Basic Health Program options to
replace the ACA's insurance layers with a more seamless structure.

   In Sunshine and Accountability: The Pursuit of Information on Quality in
Medicaid Managed Care, Sarah Somers describes the role of managed care in
Medicaid and the pre-ACA federal requirements for Medicaid managed care quality
reporting, which provides the back story for the ACA's new requirements for more
uniform Medicaid quality reporting. The article describes a multi-state research
project to obtain and compare quality data for Medicaid Managed Care plans
operating in six states. Although federal law requires states and managed care
plans to collect and make available a wide variety of quality data that can be
used to improve quality of care and target resources, the quality data obtained
from the six states typically reflected lackluster performance and little to no
targeted efforts at performance improvement. Just as importantly, the research
project identified systemic barriers to obtaining Medicaid managed care quality
data from both states and managed care plans.

   The final two pieces in this symposium are student notes. The Need for
Long-Term Care, Its Costs and Government's Attempts to Address Them, by
Alexander Daskalaskis describes Title VII of the ACA entitled the Community
Living Assistance Services and Supports Act ("CLASS"), a new voluntary public
long-term care insurance program. The article documents the growing need for
long term care in this country and the problems with trying to rely on Medicaid
or private long term care insurance to fund such services and applauds the ACA
for addressing the nation's need for a social insurance model of funding for
long term care. However, the article notes that the voluntary nature of the
CLASS Act makes it too unstable to be financially sustainable, predicting that
too few wage earners will choose to participate in the program--a policy concern
that the Obama Administration appears to concur with having recently announced
that it will not move forward with implementation. The article concludes by
recommending a long-term care insurance mandate similar to the ACA's health
insurance mandate for preventive and acute care services is critical to the
sustainability of long term care coverage.

   Regulatory Barriers When Implementing E-Prescribing of Controlled Substances:
Could Model Language be the Solution?, by Charles S. Hartig focuses on the
growth of electronic prescribing (e-prescribing) and the legal regimes that
regulate it. In March 2010 the Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") issued a
new rule authorizing e-prescribing of controlled substances but, as the article
explains, a majority of states have one of three types of confusing and
inconsistent licensing statutes that restrict the scope of e-prescribing
controlled substances more narrowly than  [*6]  federal DEA rules now permit.
The article urges states to expand scope of practice laws to permit
e-prescribing to the limits allowed by federal DEA rules and proposes a
structure for a new model state law to modernize and harmonize state licensing
laws.

   The ACA is possibly the most far-reaching piece of social legislation enacted
in the last 100 years. It will restructure health insurance and the health care
system. The authors in this issue offer important contributions to the ongoing
public conversation about how to expand access to quality and affordable health
insurance by creating better, more accountable competition in health insurance.
The student editors of the Saint Louis University Journal of Health Law & Policy
organized the March symposium and provided the authors with extraordinarily
helpful advice and assistance by editing and sourcing the articles in this
issue. As the next generation of health lawyers, they will play a key role in
implementing its goals of fairness, accountability and competition.


                              80 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             July 28, 2012 Saturday
                                  City Edition

AG asks court to let Oklahoma move on health care lawsuit

BYLINE: MICHAEL MCNUTT, Capitol Bureau

SECTION: NEWS METRO/STATE WEST; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 440 words


Attorney General Scott Pruitt asked a federal judge Friday to allow the state's
lawsuit against the national health care law to proceed.

Pruitt also asked U.S. District Judge Ronald White of the Eastern District in
Oklahoma to give the state time to address last month's U.S. Supreme Court
ruling on the Affordable Care Act.

The high court ruled that the law, including its individual mandate that
virtually all Americans buy health insurance, is constitutional. Justices said
that Congress could use its power to regulate commerce between the states to
require everyone to buy health insurance, and a majority agreed that the penalty
that someone must pay for refusing to buy insurance is a kind of tax that
Congress can impose using its power of taxation.

Pruitt filed his lawsuit in January 2011, shortly after taking office, in
federal court in Muskogee. It seeks to have parts of the health care law ruled
unconstitutional to prevent the entire law from being enforced. White issued a
stay on the lawsuit until the U.S. Supreme Court decided the other lawsuit filed
by Florida and 25 other states.

"The Supreme Court agreed with Oklahoma's claims that the Commerce Clause does
not give the federal government power to compel Americans to buy a product, but
in the process, the court found the individual mandate to be a new tax, which
now raises significant questions about its validity as a revenue-raising
measure," Pruitt said.

"This is a critical issue for Oklahoma residents and businesses, so we are
asking the court to lift the stay and give us 30 days to determine the next
step."

Pruitt said his office is reviewing several aspects of the health care law and
tax, including a new rule by the Internal Revenue Service. The rule contradicts
a provision in the health care law that keeps businesses from being taxed for
lack of employee insurance coverage in states such as Oklahoma, where a
state-run health insurance exchange has not been created.

The exchange is a state-based marketplace, where residents would shop for
private health insurance products. It is a component of the federal health care
law.

Attorneys in his office also are assessing the effect of the Supreme Court's
ruling on Oklahoma's constitutional amendment that prohibits any government from
requiring Oklahomans to buy health insurance, Pruitt said. Voters in November
2010 passed State Question 756; it got 64.7 percent of the vote.

"This lawsuit has never been about health care," Pruitt said. "It is about the
limits of the federal government under the spirit and letter of the
Constitution, and whether they have exceeded those limits through this act."


LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday

Activists warn against draft health insurance law

LENGTH: 529 words


CAIRO: Doctors and activists have called on Egyptians to "rally" against
proposed government changes to the health insurance law they say will jeopardize
health insurance beneficiaries' right to health.

Speaking during a charged seminar held on Sunday at the Journalists' Syndicate,
member of the Committee for the Defense of the Right to Health Dr Mohamed Hassan
Khalil warned that the Committee's four-year fight against health insurance law
was at a pivotal stage, following the publication on Thursday in independent
daily El-Masry El-Youm of a draft health insurance law, which will be presented
to the People's Assembly during the next parliamentary session.

According to the system described in the draft law, health insurance
beneficiaries will be required to pay a percentage of the cost of health
treatment and medicines: no more than 30 percent for services outside hospitals
and a maximum of 5 percent for services such as operations accessed inside
hospitals.

While the draft law states that the "financial ability" of beneficiaries will be
taken into consideration, Khalil was strongly critical of what he described as
government plans to turn the provision of health insurance services into a
profit-making activity.

"We refuse the idea that quality in service provision can only be realized
through privatization," Khalil told the seminar, making reference to the
"historic" court verdict issued in September 2008 which froze government plans
to place Egypt's health insurance system under the control of a profit-making
company.

"In its reasoning, the Administrative Court said that a free market philosophy
should not come at the expense of patients' right to health," Khalil explained.

The April 2007 prime ministerial decision frozen by the Administrative Court
sought to create a holding company for health care and transfer the ownership of
all health insurance clinics and hospitals to it.

The Committee rejects the idea of making patients pay a percentage of costs
because, Khalil said, it will have "disastrous" consequences by introducing an
element of uncertainty to the amount beneficiaries will be expected to pay.

He described the case of a 13-year old girl called Nourhan diagnosed with
Leukemia whose mother was told this year that she would be expected to
contribute LE 25,000 to the LE 75,000 cost of a bone marrow operation. When,
Khalil said, Nourhan's mother asked the hospital how they expected her to find
this sum of money she was told to ask charitable groups for it.

In addition to demanding that health insurance beneficiaries pay for their
treatment via a fixed subscription payment rather than open-ended contributions
to individual services, the Committee is calling for state healthcare spending
to be increased to 15 percent in line with United Nations Millennium Development
goals.

Muslim Brotherhood MP and member of the PA Health Committee Gamal El-Qorony told
the seminar that opposition MPs are a minority in parliament and that "if the
ruling National Democratic Party want it to pass, the draft law will be passed".

El-Qorony called for a protest against the draft law outside the PA at the start
of the new parliamentary session.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Health Law Response Goes 2 Ways

BYLINE: By EMILY RAMSHAW.

eramshaw@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 524 words


One House Republican wants to create the state health insurance exchange
required by the federal health care overhaul law for fear that the federal
government will do it for Texas otherwise. Another has filed a bill that would
make his colleague's efforts -- really, those of anyone trying to carry out
''Obamacare'' in Texas -- illegal.

Meanwhile, early versions of the Republican-written state budget include
cost-saving pilot programs like changes in medical payments, with little mention
that they are key components of the much-maligned federal law.

It is an uncomfortable balancing act: Texas Republican lawmakers hate few things
more than the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the overhaul
that became law in March. But even as the state pursues a suit attacking the
law's constitutionality, and Gov. Rick Perry and other top Republican
politicians assault it with the relentless enthusiasm of 9-year-olds hitting a
birthday pinata, some state officials are reluctantly laying the groundwork to
carry out parts of the law.

''Playing politics is one thing. Hampering the state from moving forward is
another entirely,'' said Tom Banning, chief executive of the Texas Academy of
Family Physicians. ''When the health plans, doctors, hospitals and business
community get behind them saying, 'This is something we need to do,' it gives
lawmakers the political cover to defeat the partisan effort not to do anything
that touches health care reform.''

Most of the legislation filed so far is an effort to halt the federal health
care overhaul in its tracks. Representatives Wayne Christian, Republican of
Center, and Ken Paxton, Republican of McKinney, are among lawmakers proposing a
state constitutional amendment to preserve Texans' right to go without health
insurance, free of penalty.

Representative Leo Berman, Republican of Tyler, takes it a step further. He has
filed a bill to nullify the federal overhaul entirely. Under Mr. Berman's
legislation, any state or federal government official who tries to carry out any
aspect of the overhaul law could be charged with a crime -- and even face jail
time. Mr. Berman said the measure could even apply to Representative John M.
Zerwas, the Simonton Republican who has drafted legislation to create a key
element of the law, a health insurance exchange.

''We'll just have to see which one passes,'' Mr. Berman said. ''The Obamacare
bill is unconstitutional and must be declared null and void.''

Mr. Zerwas, a staunch conservative who is also an anesthesiologist, believes
Congress exceeded its authority by passing the overhaul bill. But he said that
if Texas lawmakers do not design their own health insurance exchange, the
federal government would do it for them.

Plus, he said, the proposed Texas Health Insurance Connector, which could
operate as a kind of Orbitz for buying health insurance and has the support of
the state's most vocal health care organizations, would be beneficial even if
the federal overhaul law is repealed or overturned by the courts.

''In the spirit of our 10th Amendment rights, I don't want to cede anything to
the federal government,'' Mr. Zerwas said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Zerwas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           November 6, 1993, Saturday

Health Care Reform Looking at bottom line of Clinton's reform plan

BYLINE: By Bill Hendrick STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Section A; Page 2

LENGTH: 579 words


Some commonly asked questions about President Clinton's health care reform plan:

Q. Could the plan lead to layoffs and more of the big downsizings we've been
hearing about?

A. It depends on whom you ask. Some experts, such as Deborah Chollet of Georgia
State University, say no. She says many companies expect reform to reduce their
health care costs. "Companies that are downsizing are the ones that offer health
insurance and are staggering under the cost of it," she says.

But other experts say it's not just companies that are stretched by health
insurance bills that are downsizing. Mark Zandi of Regional Financial
Associates, for instance, says companies routinely watch payroll costs -
salaries and fringe benefits such as health insurance and pensions - very
closely. Those costs aren't affected by the laws of gravity, he says: Once costs
go up, they don't come down. So many businesses, worried that they'll have to
pay more per employee in the future because of Clinton's "employer mandate" for
insurance coverage, already are cutting anywhere they can, Zandi says.

Q. Small businesses, according to Clinton, will be able to deduct 100 percent of
the costs of providing health insurance to employees. Won't that negate the
effect of having to pay more for employees? Won't they just come out even?

A. No and no, answers economist Joel Prakken of the respected Laurence H. Meyer
and Associates consulting firm in St. Louis. He gives this simple example. Say
your business has revenues of $ 750,000 a year. With 20 employees earning $
26,000 apiece, your total payroll is $ 520,000, but you don't offer insurance.
Right now, you compute profits by subtracting wages and overhead from revenue.
So you subtract payroll, $ 520,000, and overhead, say $ 30,000, leaving you with
taxable income of $ 200,000. But under Clinton's plan, you'll have to pay for
employee health insurance. If each worker is single, you'll have to pay 80
percent of each one's $ 1,932 premium - or $ 1,546 apiece.

Multiply 20, the number of workers, by $ 1,546, and you get $ 30,920. That's how
much more it'll cost to run your business. Now assume the $ 30,920 will be fully
tax deductible. Subtract that amount from the $ 200,000 pre-tax profit, and
you're left with taxable income of $ 169,080. That's a lot less money you'll be
taking home, even before Uncle Sam gets his share.

Q. OK, but what about tiny firms?

A. Well, most small businesses would be hit, but because most pay lower wages,
they would receive bigger subsidies. Say your business has total revenues of $
100,000 and four employees. Your rent is $ 15,000, and other overhead comes to $
10,000, plus you pay each worker $ 15,000. That totals $ 80,000, leaving you $
20,000. Say you've been paying $ 3,000 for health coverage for yourself and your
family. That's left you with a salary of $ 17,000. Under the Clinton plan, your
family's health bill will go up to $ 4,360. And if you have to kick in $ 1,546
for coverage for your workers, that would add up to $ 7,266. Instead of having
taxable income of $ 17,000, you'd have to pay tax on a paltry $ 9,734. But firms
with average wages lower than $ 24,000 would be eligible for substantial
subsidies. So the cost to cover each single employee would be only $ 570 a year,
with the employee being required to pay $ 386, Prakken says. And employees might
be eligible for subsidies, too, if their incomes are within 150 percent of the
national poverty level.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH933130149

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              84 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           September 16, 2014 Tuesday

New fines system for health insurance breaches

LENGTH: 546  words


The Health Insurance Commission will be implementing a new code of practices
aimed at reducing the length of time it takes to deal with health insurance
offences in the court system.


Recently published in the Cayman Islands Gazette, the new Code of Practice for
Administrative Fines for Health Insurance Offences illustrates how the Health
Insurance Commission will apply the fines system.
Employers or other stakeholders can become liable foroffences under the Health
Insurance Law (2013). These offences include failure to provide employees with
compulsory health insurance coverage, or with up-to-date information about their
approved insurer.
The legislation also requires health insurance providers to file certain
documents with the Commission. Failure to do so is considered an offence. Other
breaches of the Law include wrongful termination of health insurance contracts
or the reduction of the level of benefits.
These breaches can attract a fine of $1,000 and in the case of a continuing
offence, $100 for each day the offence continues. All fines collected will go
towards the Government's revenue.
Those found in breach will receive notification from the Health Insurance
Inspector of the offence and be given 21 days to respond. If there is no
response during this time, the accused will receive a follow up letter which
requires a response within 10 days of receipt for the matter to be addressed
administratively. The accused will have an opportunity to respond with
supporting documents for further consideration in relation to the alleged
offence (s). However, failure to respond within the time permitted will result
in a court proceeding.
At any stage during the investigation the accused may request in writing that
the matter be dealt with administratively and the Commission shall consider the
request. If there is a disagreement with the facts of the case or the accused
refuses to sign the administrative fine agreement form, the matter will proceed
to court.
The Gazette notice outlines the procedures for hearings between both parties
when these are deemed necessary by the Commission.It also provides the forms
required to file the case, indicates how fines should be paid, as well as the
right to appeal.
Health Minister Hon Osbourne Bodden commented that, "The administrative fines
system will allow the superintendent of health insurance to collect
administrative fines for violations in an expeditious manner, thereby reducing
the workload of the Court. In addition, the superintendent of health insurance
now has more authority to enforce and regulate the Health Insurance Law."
Praising the work done to implement the administrative fines system, the
minister added, "The Health Insurance Commission, in partnership with the
Ministry of Health and other stakeholders, have worked hard to enhance the law's
capability to meet the current needs of the sector."
Commenting on plans to implement the new code of practice, Superintendent of
Health Insurance Mervyn Connolly stated, "Over the next few weeks the Commission
will conduct a public education campaign regarding the Code of Practice for
Administrative Fines for health insurance offences. Implementation of the Code
of Practice will commence on 1 October 2014." 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            August 22, 2013 Thursday

Debunked health care claims live on at Tampa town hall

LENGTH: 344  words


Heritage Foundation President Jim DeMint brought his "Defund Obamacare" town
hall tour to Tampa on Wednesday night, and PolitiFact Florida was there. We
heard some claims we've already put to the Truth-O-Meter. The highlights:


· DeMint called the health care law socialized medicine and said it would make
the United States system like those in Britain or Canada. PolitiFact has rated
similar claims False, because the health care law leaves in place the private
health care system and the free market.
The law does put more regulations on health insurance companies. It also fines
most large employers who fail to provide insurance for their employees, and it
requires all individuals to have health insurance. In Britain, doctors are
employees of the government, while in Canada, the government pays most medical
bills as part of a single-payer system. President Barack Obama's health law has
neither of those features.
· DeMint said the law will intervene in decisions between doctors and patients.
Though the law puts more regulations on health insurance companies, nothing in
the law changes typical interactions between doctors and patients. We rate that
claim is False.
· On other issues, DeMint made claims that were partially accurate, but needed
additional context. He said the health care law was paid for by cutting from
Medicare. He's right that lawmakers did rein in future Medicare spending and
then counted the savings as deficit reduction to offset new health care
spending. Specifically, the law trimmed extra payments to the Medicare Advantage
program. It also set up penalties for hospitals if they don't meet good health
benchmarks for Medicare patients. We've rated similar claims Half True.
· DeMint said people on Medicaid, the health insurance for the poor, are less
healthy than people who have no health insurance at all. We've found mixed
evidence for such claims. In some cases, Medicaid patients do have poorer
outcomes, but in other cases, they do better. Experts have warned that more
studies are needed. We've rated similar claims Half True.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday

New health insurance law drawing some concern

BYLINE: By Erik Arvidson

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 453 words


BOSTON -- Some of the state's largest employers of part-time workers are
concerned that the state's new health insurance law would make them liable to
cover the expenses of employees who can't afford the health insurance premiums.

Business trade organizations have asked state regulators to delay the
implementation of new employer surcharges to pay for the health insurance of
nearly all the state's uninsured workers starting in July 2007.

Affordable health insurance advocates, meanwhile, countered by arguing that the
new law doesn't go far enough to requiring employers to provide a sufficient
level of health care benefits to their employees.

The new law is designed to force employers with more than 10 workers who don't
offer health insurance to contribute toward the cost of free care, which is care
given to people, employed or not, who don't have insurance.

Employers would be required to set up a health insurance program under Section
125 of the Internal Revenue Service Code, which allows employees to pay their
premiums pre-tax. Those employers who don't set up a Section 125 plan would be
subject to the so-called "free rider surcharge" which will range between 10
percent and 100 percent of the cost of the health care provided to employees.

Eileen McAnneny, vice president of Government Affairs for Associated Industries
of Massachusetts, said the law could require companies to foot the bill for
employees who can't afford the premiums.

"If I'm a part-time worker and my wages are insufficient to cover the premiums,
because it's a payroll deduction, does the employer pay for it?" McAnneny said.
"The employer could take a hit. That's fine if the worker stays on the payroll,
but what if they quit?"

McAnneny, whose group represents 7,600 members who employ 680,000 people, said
the law could hit retailers and other industries that employ part-time and
seasonal workers the hardest.

McAnneny spoke at a public hearing of the state Division of Health Care Finance
and Policy on the regulations. She asked that there be a "grace period" after
Jan. 1, 2007 -- when employers would be required to set up the Section 125 plans
-- to give employers time to begin collecting premiums from their workers.

"We're just looking for some leniency so that employers who are making a good
faith effort can comply," McAnneny said.

Brigitte Walsh, a spokeswoman for the health care finance and policy division,
the state agency which promulgates health care regulations, said, "We've heard
the concern of employers and will take all the testimony under consideration."
However, it hasn't been finalized how the Section 125 plans will work for all
employees, she added.

Erik Arvidson's e-mail address is earvidson@lowellsun.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Dubai makes health insurance compulsory

LENGTH: 253  words


A new law has made health insurance coverage compulsory for every resident in
Dubai starting next year.
Presently only a million residents are covered out of the more than three
million residents in Dubai.


Officials from the Dubai Health Authority (DHA) said many blue-collar workers
are not covered and this new law will ensure that everyone has access to
essential health services.
"The law is fundamental to ensure smooth delivery of basic health insurance to
everyone living in the emirate, which means over three million people, which
includes nationals (Emiratis) and residents with Dubai visas," said Eisa Al
Maidoor, director general of the DHA. He unveiled the law on Tuesday to the
media. The Health Insurance Law was approved by His Highness Shaikh Mohammad Bin
Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice- President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of
Dubai.
Officials said the insurance scheme will start to roll out next year and will be
completed by 2016. Many blue collar workers and many spouses of expatriates
presently do not have health cover. When it goes into force, the new law will
ensure that no work or residence visa would be renewed without a health
insurance cover.
An expatriate will pay for the coverage of his spouse and children. But Haidar
Al Yousuf, director of health funding at the DHA, said the Authority is working
with insurance companies for inexpensive basic coverage plans. The basic package
would cost Dh600 for a year, he said. <p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© 2013
Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           The Edmond Sun (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 9, 2013 Wednesday

Law requires the purchase of health insurance

BYLINE: James Coburn, The Edmond Sun, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 530 words


Oct. 09--EDMOND -- Most Americans will be required to purchase health care
insurance beginning January 1, according to mandates set forth by the Affordable
Care Act. There will be a 90-day waiting period to obtain a private health
insurance plan or face a tax penalty, the law states.

The objective of the AFC is to make health care more assessable, improve the
quality of health care, increase consumer protection and to help control the
rising cost of health care, said Patricia Rees, manager for Small Group Account
Management for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Oklahoma.

Rees discussed this week how ongoing changes in health care insurance through
the Affordable Care Act (AFC) with members of the Edmond Area Chamber of
Commerce. Prevention and wellness is emphasized by the ACA, Rees said to a crowd
of nearly 100 people.

The thought is that a larger pool of people with health care insurance will help
to make the overall cost of health care lower, Rees said. Federal financial
assistance will offer premium tax credits available.

"The cost sharing for the plans are lower," Rees said. "We didn't do this in
Oklahoma, but some states chose to expand Medicaid to allow for some of that
coverage."

More than 650,000 Oklahomans are currently without health care insurance,
according to the state. Sixty-five percent of those uninsured residents qualify
for an health care subsidy, Rees said. Fifty-nine percent of the uninsured
population do not realize open enrollment for the AFC began Oct. 1 and, that
they are required by law to obtain health insurance by January 1 or face a fine,
Rees added.

"Forty-two percent are currently unaware of the health care law," Rees said.

All new plans will include coverage for essential health care benefits such as
medical and emergency services, she said.

"One thing that is really huge is pediatric dental," Rees said.

Health care insurance coverage cannot be denied based on age, gender or health
status, Rees said. Pre-existing conditions will no longer determine or limit
one's eligibility for health care, according to the AFC.

"The intent is to reach out there and grab some of those people that maybe shied
away from coverage," Rees said.

The new law creates a health insurance market, or exchange to help consumers
shop and compare insurance prices. Nobody is required to switch from their
current insurance provider. Insurance agents as well as the ACA navigators will
be able to assist individuals through the process.

Rees compared the new law to shopping at Travelocity.com. The intent of the
insurance exchange is to make it easier to compare policies and choose a health
insurance plan from among the carriers, Rees said.

"You can shop for policies that fit your needs if you want certain benefits and
certain coverage," Rees said. "And you can also find out if you qualify for
assistance."

TO LEARN more about the Health Insurance Marketplace, apply for health insurance
or to see if you qualify for less expensive insurance than your current plan,
visit healthcare.gov.

jcoburn@edmondsun.com -- 341-2121

___ (c)2013 The Edmond Sun (Edmond, Okla.) Visit The Edmond Sun (Edmond, Okla.)
at www.edmondsun.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131009-EO-Law-requires-the-purchase-of-health-insurance-1009-20131009

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EO


                         Copyright 2013 The Edmond Sun


                              89 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             April 9, 1993, Friday

Health care woes touch 75 million

BYLINE: By Steve Sternberg STAFF WRITERhealth; care; costs; united/states;
georgia; statistics

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 1

LENGTH: 318 words


Washington - Nearly half the nation's families will grapple with a personal
health care crisis this year, with at least one close relative losing health
insurance or spending 10 percent of each paycheck on medical expenses, a health
group said Thursday.

In all, health insurance problems will affect about 75 million Americans this
year - more than twice previous estimates of the number of people believed to
lack health coverage at any given time, according to a study prepared by a
health care lobbying group called Families USA.

Two million Georgians will be among them.

The group's study said Georgia ranked in the top 10 states in the number of
people who will be uninsured or underinsured this year. Georgia also was among
the 10 states with the greatest number of families - 1.3 million - believed to
be without adequate health insurance.

The group said 48 million of the nation's 105 million families this year will
have at least one member who is underinsured or lacks insurance entirely.

"This is not a welfare problem; this reaches deep into the heart of the American
middle class," said Ronald Pollack, former dean of the Antioch Law School and
now the group's executive director.

The study, funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, based its projections
on a U.S. Census survey of health insurance coverage and the National Medical
Expenditure Survey.

California leads the group's list with 6.1 million inadequately insured families
and 10.3 million underinsured individuals. New Mexico has the greatest
percentage of inadequately insured people: 44 percent of the state's 1.6 million
residents.

Families USA released its report as the administration gears up to sell its
nearly completed health care reform plan to Congress.

The plan was to be presented to Congress by May 1, but it probably will be
delayed by the death of first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton's father.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH931100002

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              90 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 13, 2015 Friday

Idaho: The Boss Can Force You To Buy Company's Health Insurance

LENGTH: 497  words

DATELINE: Boise


American Falls District Library of Idaho has issued the followinga news release:

Under the health law, large employers that don't offer their full-time workers
comprehensive, affordable health insurance face a fine. But some employers are
taking it a step further and requiring workers to buy the company insurance,
whether they want it or not.

Many workers may have no choice but to comply.

Some workers are upset. One disgruntled reader wrote to Kaiser Health News: "My
employer is requiring me to purchase health insurance and is automatically
taking the premium out of my paycheck even though I don't want to sign up for
health insurance. Is this legal?"

The short answer is yes. Under the federal health law, employers with 100 or
more full-time workers can enroll them in company coverage without their say as
long as the plan is deemed affordable and adequate. That means the employee
contribution is no more than 9.5 percent of the federal poverty guideline and
the plan pays for at least 60 percent of covered medical expenses, on average.

"If you offer an employee minimum essential coverage that provides minimum value
and is affordable, you need not provide an opt out," says Seth Perretta, a
partner at Groom Law Group, a Washington, D.C., firm specializing in employee
benefits.

If a plan doesn't meet those standards, however, employees must be given the
opportunity to decline those company plans, under the health law. They can shop
for coverage on the health insurance marketplaces and may qualify for premium
tax credits if their income is between 100 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level.

Those premium subsidies aren't available to workers whose employer offers good
coverage that meets the law's standards.

Not that many employers are expected to strong arm their workers into buying
health insurance. Those that do may be confused about their responsibilities
under the health law, mistakenly believing that in order to avoid penalties they
have to enroll their workers in coverage.

"That is just dead wrong," says Timothy Jost, a law professor at Washington and
Lee University who's an expert on the health law.

"Nothing in the Affordable Care Act directs employers to make their coverage
mandatory for employees," says a Treasury Department spokesperson. The law
requires large employers "to either offer coverage or pay a fee if their
full-time workers access tax credits to get coverage on their own in the
marketplace."

Employer penalties for not offering insurance that meets the health law's
standards can run up to $3,000 per employee.

For employers, forcing coverage on their workers could be counterproductive. "Do
you really want to limit employees' ability to select whether they get this
coverage?" says Amy Bergner, managing director at human resources consultant
PwC. "What impact does that have from talent management perspective?"

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday

Idaho: The Boss Can Force You To Buy Company's Health Insurance

LENGTH: 497  words

DATELINE: Boise


American Falls District Library of Idaho has issued the followinga news release:

Under the health law, large employers that don't offer their full-time workers
comprehensive, affordable health insurance face a fine. But some employers are
taking it a step further and requiring workers to buy the company insurance,
whether they want it or not.

Many workers may have no choice but to comply.

Some workers are upset. One disgruntled reader wrote to Kaiser Health News: "My
employer is requiring me to purchase health insurance and is automatically
taking the premium out of my paycheck even though I don't want to sign up for
health insurance. Is this legal?"

The short answer is yes. Under the federal health law, employers with 100 or
more full-time workers can enroll them in company coverage without their say as
long as the plan is deemed affordable and adequate. That means the employee
contribution is no more than 9.5 percent of the federal poverty guideline and
the plan pays for at least 60 percent of covered medical expenses, on average.

"If you offer an employee minimum essential coverage that provides minimum value
and is affordable, you need not provide an opt out," says Seth Perretta, a
partner at Groom Law Group, a Washington, D.C., firm specializing in employee
benefits.

If a plan doesn't meet those standards, however, employees must be given the
opportunity to decline those company plans, under the health law. They can shop
for coverage on the health insurance marketplaces and may qualify for premium
tax credits if their income is between 100 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level.

Those premium subsidies aren't available to workers whose employer offers good
coverage that meets the law's standards.

Not that many employers are expected to strong arm their workers into buying
health insurance. Those that do may be confused about their responsibilities
under the health law, mistakenly believing that in order to avoid penalties they
have to enroll their workers in coverage.

"That is just dead wrong," says Timothy Jost, a law professor at Washington and
Lee University who's an expert on the health law.

"Nothing in the Affordable Care Act directs employers to make their coverage
mandatory for employees," says a Treasury Department spokesperson. The law
requires large employers "to either offer coverage or pay a fee if their
full-time workers access tax credits to get coverage on their own in the
marketplace."

Employer penalties for not offering insurance that meets the health law's
standards can run up to $3,000 per employee.

For employers, forcing coverage on their workers could be counterproductive. "Do
you really want to limit employees' ability to select whether they get this
coverage?" says Amy Bergner, managing director at human resources consultant
PwC. "What impact does that have from talent management perspective?"

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday

Czech court orders government to amend health insurance system

LENGTH: 363 words


Text of report in English by Czech news agency CTK

Brno, 31 January: The Czech Health Ministry must work out a new system of
medicines coverage from public health insurance by 1 January 2008 over
shortcomings in the current system, the Constitutional Court ruled today.

The court criticized the fact that the decisions on the payment for medicines so
far have not been based on objective criteria, they were not justified and they
need not be re-assessed by court.

The system of medicines coverage approval must be transparent in the future, the
Constitutional Court ruled, adding that primarily the reasons why certain
medicines should be covered by public health insurance must be clearly stated.

Under the law, at least one medicine from each group must be fully covered by
public health insurance.

Health Ministry spokesman Tomas Cikrt said that according to the court verdict,
the ministry has a clear task to amend the law on public health insurance this
year.

"The verdict supports the ministry's previous plan and gives it a clear time
framework," Cikrt told CTK.

He said that regardless of the Constitutional Court's verdict, the ministry was
aware of its duty to meet the European Commission's demands for a transparent
regime. The ministry's new directive on medicines will take effect in April, he
added.

The Constitutional Court today also abolished part of the law on public health
insurance and the Health Ministry's directive on the coverage of medicines.

The court has postponed the effect of its verdict until 31 December 2007, to
give the Health Ministry space to create a new system and deputies enough time
to approve it.

A pharmaceutical company planning to sell its products in the Czech Republic
must have its maximum price set by the Czech Finance Ministry. The Health
Ministry then determines how much health insurance will cover from the price.
The difference between both sums is paid by patients.

Doctors prescribe more often the medicines that are fully or to a very high
extent covered by health insurance, consequently their producers have a better
position on the Czech market and a higher profit.

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 1115 gmt 31 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                                October 11, 2010
                               Law Review Edition

A dormant volcano ready to explode

BYLINE: Sanchia Temkin

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 961  words


A dormant volcano ready to explode

health

NATIONAL health insurance is the issue most likely to dominate the healthcare
debate in SA for the foreseeable future, says Neil Kirby, director of healthcare
and life sciences law at Werksmans.

"The hype around the issue may seem fairly subdued, but the issue is like a
volcano - just dormant for the moment," he says.

Kirby expects a debate to erupt within the next few years, probably rising to a
crescendo in 2014. That is the year when the Advisory Council appointed by the
Minister of Health will deliver its recommendations for implementing national
health insurance in SA.

"It is also the year of the country's next national elections. In the 2009
elections there was a quite a bit said about national health and a lot of
hysteria was generated over national health insurance. This kind of issue is a
vote-getter and is bound to stir emotions again."

However, this does not imply that national health insurance has a purely
political currency.

"The issue of a national health insurance scheme has commercial implications for
the healthcare industry, irrespective of what sort of system is implemented. As
the debate intensifies and we gain some clarity on the nature of the scheme, the
ultimate effect of the type of national health insurance scheme that will be
implemented in SA will have to be factored into the planning and decision-making
processes of companies and investors.

"Most organisations plan three to five years ahead and, even though there is no
legislation on the table yet, the national health insurance debate is already
affecting certain other healthcare issues such as healthcare pricing.

"National health insurance invariably works off a single, uniform pricing list
for all healthcare providers and services," says Kirby.

"In SA's case the process to determine such a list was introduced by the
Minister of Health in 2008."

Publishing this list, known formally as the National Health Reference Price List
(NHRPL) was seen by many as the first step in an overall plan to lay the
foundation for the introduction of a national health insurance system.

The list also ignited controversy.

"Question marks were raised over the legality of the process that the minister
of health followed. Although the regulations around the list had been the
subject of much debate between the Department of Health and the healthcare
industry, the industry's input was not taken into account properly before a
final list was published."

This claim was confirmed in July 2010 when Kirby successfully represented the
Hospital Association of South Africa, Netcare 911 and ER24 in challenging the
Minister in the North Gauteng High Court.

"The court disallowed the National Health Reference Price List and set it aside
in its entirety. The process used by the minister was found to be
unconstitutional as the minister did not consult properly with stakeholders. The
minister must now use a constitutionally acceptable means to develop a price
list, meaning he must ensure that all stakeholders are heard and that their
representations are reflected in the final pricing list."

When consultation between the minister and the healthcare industry resumes,
other issues around national health insurance are likely to start surfacing.

"As the national health insurance debate gains momentum we will gradually start
seeing a consolidated model detailing how national health insurance will
function, what the basic benefits will be and who will pay. By 2014, when the
Advisory Council presents its recommendations, national health insurance may
very well have moved from an abstract concept to a practical, concrete model."

For this reason companies would do well to keep national health insurance at the
back of their minds from now onwards in their planning.

Another healthcare issue worth watching is the progress of SA's Protection of
Personal Information Bill. This bill, introduced to Parliament in August last
year, affects the privacy of patient information. Kirby says the issue of
concern is which third parties should have the right to receive or exchange
confidential patient information without the legal requirements applicable to
the exchange of other personal information.

"Thanks to electronic communications technology, patient information is easier
to share in circumstances where patients might not have given their consent to
such information being divulged. This is a huge concern in Europe and the US,
where, increasingly, electronic patient records are widely used."

Earlier this year Kirby was part of a panel discussing law and policy
surrounding healthcare information, privacy and IT at a conference of the
International Bar Association, of which he is the chair of the Medicines and the
Law Committee, in Copenhagen, Denmark.

"In SA it would seem that the Protection of Personal Information Bill is tilted
in favour of efficiently moving healthcare information among third parties,
including medical professionals, healthcare institutions and medical scheme
administrators. The bill appears to whittle away the rights of patients to
confidentiality and personal privacy. Whether or not such liberties are
reasonable and justifiable in South African law will be determined through the
intensification of the current debate about whether the movement of such
information is in the best interests of patients."

Kirby is a health law specialist and has headed Werksmans' health,
pharmaceutical and life sciences practice area since 2000. He has published
numerous articles on healthcare, environmental, administrative, constitutional
and consumer rights law matters, and is frequently invited to speak at national
and international seminars and workshops.

SANCHIA TEMKIN

Neil Kirby... Debate likely to erupt in the next few years.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                              May 26, 2015 Tuesday

Insurance scheme extended to Dubai Healthcare City

LENGTH: 341 words


Pursuant to a new resolution issued by Shaikh Mohammed, the Dubai Healthcare
City Authority is authorised to implement the Health Insurance Law on healthcare
service providers in the Dubai Healthcare City.

Dubai - In his capacity as Ruler of Dubai, His Highness Shaikh Mohammed bin
Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE, has issued
Resolution No. 8 of 2015, extending the implementation of Dubai's Health
Insurance Law on healthcare service providers licensed within the Dubai
Healthcare City.

The resolution aims to define Dubai Healthcare City Authority as the government
entity responsible for the implementation of Law No. 11 of 2013 pertaining to
health insurance on the healthcare facilities registered in the Dubai Healthcare
City. Pursuant to the new resolution, the Dubai Healthcare City Authority is
authorised to implement the Health Insurance Law on healthcare service providers
in the Dubai Healthcare City. The authority is competent to license service
providers to provide healthcare services to beneficiaries of health insurance,
approve prices for healthcare services and monitor their adherence to the
approved prices.

The resolution also authorises the authority to oversee the commitment of
service providers to the Procedural Notice issued pursuant to the Health
Insurance Law (No 11 of 2013) and other pertaining resolutions. The authority
may also enforce penalties prescribed by law on violators, receive and
investigate complaints and take the required procedures on them.

Employees of the authority appointed by a resolution from the Chairman of Dubai
Healthcare City Authority, or by whomever the Chairman may delegate, enjoy the
powers of judicial officers in bringing to book any violations against the
articles of Law No. 11 of 2013.

The Chairman of the Dubai Healthcare City Authority may issue any resolutions
required to assure accurate implementation of this resolution.

This resolution is valid from the date of issuance and is to be published in the
Official Gazette.

reporters@khaleejtimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2015 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        SUNDAY TELEGRAM (Massachusetts)

                             August 5, 2007 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

Health care law intrigues tax man;
Returns will require new form; uninsured will face penalty

BYLINE: John J. Monahan, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


For many of the state's 4.6 million tax filers, the first experiences with the
commonwealth's new health insurance mandate will come as they file their state
income taxes next year.

All filers will be required to show that they had health insurance by this Dec.
31 or face a $219 state tax penalty.

Officials of the state Health Insurance Connector Authority, which is
implementing the health insurance mandate, said the law provides for an initial
grace period with no penalties for residents who failed to meet the July 1
startup date for mandatory health insurance. That grace period will end before
the last day of 2007.

As a result, all residents

18 and older who file state tax returns will have to verify they had coverage as
of Dec. 31 by filling out a new form to be filed along with their tax returns in
the coming tax filing season.

Those with health insurance will have to fill out only the first page of the new
tax form, HC-1099, to identify their insurer and their health insurance plan
number as provided to them by their employer or insurer. Those who have not
obtained health insurance will have to go on to fill out a second page of the
form, which allows them to claim any of several hardship, religious or
affordability exemptions and instructs them to enter zero on their tax return
where they otherwise would claim their standard personal deduction.

The state Department of Revenue already has designed the form and is giving it a
final review before approving it for use by taxpayers.

Jon M. Kingsdale, executive director of the authority, said that while the
ending of the grace period on the last day of the year may have left some
expecting no penalties would apply when filing 2007 taxes, the certification
process and an initial $219 penalty will be imposed on those 18 and older

without health insurance.

"The grace period was actually included in the law" when it was adopted in 2006,
Mr. Kingsdale said. While the penalties would be imposed based on whether an
individual had health insurance for the last day of the year, he said, the grace
period will allow those who failed to get health insurance by the July 1, 2007,
mandated start but had it by Dec. 31 to face no penalties. "That is why we
talked about it as a grace period," he said. "There will be no penalty as long
as you have insurance by the end of the year."

Mr. Kingsdale said there is no good estimate of how many may have to pay
penalties when they file taxes next year. Of an estimated 372,000 without health
insurance last year, connector officials know that about 150,000 have signed up
for expanded MassHealth or subsidized private health insurance plans or have
bought health insurance outright so far this year. Another 60,000 people are
expected to meet financial guidelines for affordability exemptions and many will
be eligible for waivers or religious exemptions.

How many of the 150,000 or more remaining will get health insurance in the next
several months to meet the Dec. 31 cutoff is not known, he said. If 100,000
remain without health insurance, the state could impose as much as $22 million
in penalties, but Mr. Kingsdale said he expects it will be far fewer.

While the compliance date to avoid a penalty would be Dec. 31, he said,
residents need to realize that they likely will have to get health insurance for
the month of December to be covered the last day of the year.

"You can't really have insurance or not have insurance for one day. You really
need it for the month of December, so you have to really get it in November,"
Mr. Kingsdale said.

The first penalties, which only will be applied to those who have not gotten
health insurance by Dec. 31, will amount to the loss of a personal deduction on
state taxes, valued at $219.

Starting the first day of 2008, a new type of penalty will replace that personal
deduction loss penalty. Those failing to have health insurance during next year
and future years face penalties equal to half of the lowest cost health
insurance policy for which they would qualify. Those penalties could run into
the thousands of dollars per person and would also be collected from income tax
withholding when taxes are filed.

Mr. Kingsdale emphasized that the connector authority plans to be generous in
reviewing requests for affordability waivers, religious exemptions and special
circumstance as the penalty phase of the law is implemented.

"Our intention is to help people get insurance and make it affordable and not to
penalize people. We are going to be very generous and constructive in the
appeals process," he said.

Contact John J. Monahan by e-mail at jmonahan@telegram.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             March 1, 2014 Saturday

International Law at Work - February 2014: UAE employment law update

LENGTH: 243  words


In the United Arab Emirates (UAE), there are two separate jurisdictions that
need to be considered, being: (a) the UAE, where employment is regulated by the
Federal Labour Law No. 8 of 1980 as amended (the 'UAE Labour Law'); and (b) the
Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC), where the DIFC Employment Law No. 4
of 2005 as amended (the 'DIFC Employment Law') applies. The main difference
between these two jurisdictions is that the UAE has a civil-law-based legal
system and the DIFC has a common-law-based legal system. This update will focus
on some recent developments in both jurisdictions.


One of the new developments in Dubai that has been implemented from January 2014
is the new Dubai Law No. 11 of 2013 (the 'Dubai Health Insurance Law').
The Dubai Health Insurance Law provides that employers are now obligated to
provide basic health insurance cover to their employees, to bear the cost of
such insurance and to ensure that they are covered for the duration of their
employment. An executive resolution expressly setting out what would constitute
basic health insurance has not yet been issued; however, officials of the Dubai
Health Authority (DHA) have suggested that basic insurance cover should, at
minimum, cover visits to a general practitioner, referrals to specialists,
surgical procedures, tests and investigations, maternity and emergency
treatments up to a minimum insured amount of AED150,000 (£24,500)...© 2014 Legal
Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                                  ROP Edition

COST CARE;
Health insurance law has businesses bracing for big hikes in benefits costs

BYLINE: STEVE ADAMS, The Patriot Ledger

SECTION: Business; pg. ONE33

LENGTH: 750 words


Businesses are scrambling to comply with the state's groundbreaking law
requiring them to offer health care to all employees beginning this weekend. The
Commonwealth Care program is expected to increase costs significantly for many
companies, particularly those that rely heavily on part-time or seasonal help.

Lew Jacobs, who provides benefits services for about 100 area companies, said
independently owned restaurants will be among those hit hardest by the new
requirements.

"Some of my clients are going to go out of business," said Jacobs, president of
the Boston-based Jacobs Co.

Many clients face six-digit increases in benefits costs, Jacobs said, and some
have hired additional bookkeepers to comply with the law's reporting
requirements.

A new state agency, the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority, is
overseeing the introduction of the Commonwealth Care program. The law applies to
all businesses with the equivalent of 11 or more full-time employees. Beginning
July 1, those employers are required to offer so-called Section 125 plans to all

employees, including temporary or part-time workers who often do not receive
health insurance.

Associated Industries of Massachusetts has sponsored 18 briefings across the
state since March, informing representatives of more than 2,000 companies of the
new requirements.

"The challenge is greater for industries that have a lot of nontraditional
employees and a lot of part-time or seasonal workers," AIM CEO Richard Lord
said. "Many of them don't offer health insurance to those employees, and so the
new law presents quite a few changes for them."

Section 125 plans, named after a section of the IRS code, are already popular
options because they allow both companies and employees to shelter their
insurance premiums from taxes. Section 125 plans deduct insurance premiums
before taxes. Employers save 7.65 percent of every dollar contributed because
they don't have to pay FICA taxes, and employees save an average 41 percent in
state and federal taxes.

"It's a huge benefit, and as a result many employers already offer them," said
Jon Kingsdale, executive director of the Commonwealth Health Insurance
Connector. "We expect over time most employers are going to decide to do this."

Companies that don't offer Section 125 plans will be assessed a hefty "free
rider surcharge" if an employee or dependent runs up more than $50,000 in health
care costs.

Another provision of the law requires employers to make a "fair and reasonable"
contribution to employees' health insurance or pay fees of $295 per employee
each year.

They can avoid that charge by contributing 33 percent of employees' premiums or
if at least 25 percent of their workforce participates in the company's existing
health care plan.

Dedham-based casual dining chain Halfway Cafe expects its annual health
insurance costs to rise by $50,000 this year, an increase of 7 percent from last
year, because of the health insurance law, owner John Grasso said. The
five-restaurant chain had previously offered health insurance to full-time
employees, paying 50 percent of the premiums for individual plans and 33 percent
on family plans, Grasso said. More than two-thirds of the company's 180
employees are part-timers.

In a highly competitive climate, the Halfway Cafe will absorb the extra costs
rather than passing them on to diners.

"It's not like we'll raise the bottle of beer a quarter or raise steak tips by
50 cents," Grasso said. "We can't make it up on volume."

It's unknown how many companies have created new Section 125 plans this year,
but the picture will become clearer after Nov. 15. That's the deadline to submit
Health Insurance Responsibility Disclosure forms to the state Division of
Unemployment Assistance, listing employees who are participating in a plan.

Despite outreach efforts, many businesses remain uncertain about whether they
are affected by the new requirements, said Peter Forman, president of the South
Shore Chamber of Commerce.

"There's going to be a shakeout period as this gets implemented and more people
realize they have to fine-tune or change their plans," Forman said.

Commonwealth Care may have the unintended consequence of prompting some
businesses to drop their existing health insurance plans, opting to pay the $295
assessment as a less expensive alternative, Forman said.

"We're also hearing some stories of people dropping their plans assuming it is
cheaper to go through the state," he said.

Steve Adams may be reached at sadams@ledger.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Server Nikki David, 25, of Randolph sets a table at the Halfway Cafe in
Holbrook. The Dedham-based casual-dining chain expects its annual health
insurance costs to rise by $50,000 this year because of the health insurance
law, owner John Grasso said., LISA BUL/The Patriot Ledger

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Patriot Ledger


                              98 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                  ROP Edition

Insurance coverage elements in new law

SECTION: News; pg. 2

LENGTH: 229 words


Last year, the Legislature passed and Gov. Mitt Romney signed a bill aimed at
extending health insurance coverage to an estimated 500,000 Massachusetts
residents who have none. Some aspects of the new law include:

Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority:An agency established to
oversee the development and sale of new types of health insurance policies.

Commonwealth Care:Health insurance products developed by private companies and
overseen by the Connector available to families and individuals making 300
percent or less of the federal poverty level, or a maximum of $61,950 a year for
a family of four. These health-insurance plans come with a subsidy.

Commonwealth Choice: Health insurance products developed by private companies
and overseen by the Connector available to individuals and families who earn
more than 300 percent of the poverty level. They are not subsidized, and
individuals or families must pay the full premium.

Individual mandate:Part of the health insurance reform law that requires
individuals to have health insurance or face financial penalties. If people
don't have health insurance by Dec. 31, 2007, they will lose their Massachusetts
personal income tax exemption, a value of about $219. Starting in 2008, people
will be fined half the monthly premium of the lowest-priced plan for which
they're eligible for each month they are uninsured.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Patriot Ledger


                              99 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                     September 29, 2013 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

Learn About the NC Health Insurance Marketplace

LENGTH: 285  words


New Delhi, Sept. 29 -- On October 1, 2013, North Carolina residents will have
access to a new Health Insurance Marketplace for purchasing affordable
healthcare coverage, as mandated by the Federal Healthcare Law.



WNC Health Insurance / The Asheville Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North
Carolina Store of Asheville, North Carolina, has completely revamped their
website, in order to put together the necessary information that will assist
North Carolinians with the purchase of health insurance through the NC Health
Insurance Marketplace: http://www.wnchealthinsurance.com/

WNC Health Insurance / The Asheville Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North
Carolina Store is an authorized agency of Blue Cross Blue Shield of North
Carolina (BCBSNC), one of the few health insurance providers that will be
offering affordable healthcare plans on the NC Health Insurance Marketplace.

Federal law requires all individuals and families that are able to afford
insurance to obtain health insurance coverage between January 1, 2014 and March
31, 2014, or else pay a penalty on their tax return. All businesses with more
than 50 full time equivalent employees must offer health insurance to full-time
employees beginning in 2015, or else pay a shared responsibility payment.

WNC Health Insurance / The Asheville Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North
Carolina Store stands ready to assist individuals, families and businesses in
selecting affordable health insurance through the NC Health Insurance
Marketplace. We have been helping individuals and employers obtain health
insurance since 1994, and are happy to serve as a free resource for learning
about and finding the best health insurance for yourself, your family and your
employees.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             100 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           February 15, 1994, Tuesday

HEALTH-CARE COSTS Meaningful health-care reform doesn't require a huge new tax

BYLINE: G. C. Woodson, M.D.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 9

LENGTH: 644 words


In my opinion, the most critical health-care challenge facing America today is
to guarantee access to quality medical care at a reasonable cost for all of our
people. While the Clinton plan will help improve access, my assessment is that
it will sharply limit consumer choice, ultimately lead to rationing of health
care, cost more for lower quality care, and require significantly higher taxes
to fund. Many of the plan's laudable goals can be accomplished without causing
these unpleasant consequences.

The fastest and simplest way to achieve universal access is by changing the way
we regulate the insurance industry: Require health insurance companies to employ
community rating and prohibit them from turning anyone down regardless of their
age or health history; define a benefits package that represents the minimum
health care needed by families (people who want a more generous plan with richer
benefits should be free to pay more and get it); require that health insurers
offer policies that meet the minimum standards, but give them the freedom to
offer more generous and expensive plans. This allows insurance companies to
compete on the basis of price, benefits, service and quality.

Instead of making employer buy insurance, as proposed in the Clinton plan,
mandate that each of us buy our own. The money companies now pay for employees'
health insurance would instead be given to us as higher income to be used to buy
our own health coverage. This way our insurance is not tied to our job.
Eliminating the tax deduction for health insurance premiums and requiring that
we pay for our own insurance will place the full cost squarely on the consumer's
shoulders and help make us better health-care consumers. Insurance copayments
and deductibles should be retained because they help to keep health-care
insurance premium costs down and, as long as they are not too high, do not keep
patients from seeking needed care.

These insurance reforms would bring most of the 38.5 million uninsured back into
the system. They would also help to lower the average cost of health insurance
premiums by reducing the cost the insured now pay for caring for the uninsured.
Providing the working poor with a government voucher which could be used only to
purchase health insurance would help them obtain basic coverage.

Means-testing of the Medicare program for the elderly could save billions being
transferred to care for of well-off seniors. The savings from means-testing
Medicare and ending the tax deductibility of health- care insurance would more
than offset the cost of providing government health insurance vouchers to the
working poor.

If the Clinton plan passes, it's a good bet that the demand for health-care
services will grow rapidly and costs will soar. It calls for members of each
health alliance with a job to pay the costs for themselves and for those who
can't pay for their own insurance. This is going to be very expensive and is why
the premiums most companies and employees will be required to pay to the health
alliances will be more than they pay now.

The way the Clinton plan is structured, consumers will have little or no
incentive to be frugal. It is likely that they will pressure doctors for more
and more care. Inevitably, health-care spending will rise above predetermined
government ceilings, triggering rationing of medical care. Once rationing is
imposed, politicians will face irresistible pressure either to raise taxes or
increase deficit spending to satisfy voters' demand for health care.

While our present system has major problems and needs change, it is working and
working well for most people. Let's not destroy what is good about our present
system while trying to fix what needs to be changed.

Dr. Grattan C. Woodson,a specialist in osteoporosis, is directorof The Bone
Disorders Center in Decatur.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH940480096

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                             101 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             April 9, 1993, Friday

Coverage crisis will hurt 75 million, group warns

BYLINE: By Steve Sternberg STAFF WRITERhealth; care; insurance; costs; reform;
forecasts

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 3

LENGTH: 324 words


Washington - Nearly half the nation's families will grapple with a personal
health care crisis this year, with at least one close relative losing health
insurance or spending 10 percent of each paycheck on medical expenses, a health
group says.

In all, health insurance problems will affect about 75 million Americans this
year - more than twice previous estimates of the number of people believed to
lack health coverage at any given time, according to a study prepared by
Families USA, a health care lobbying group.

Two million Georgians will be among them.

The group's study, released Thursday, said Georgia ranked in the top 10 states
in the number of people who will be uninsured or underinsured this year. Georgia
also was among the 10 states with the greatest number of families - 1.3 million
- believed to be without adequate health insurance.

The group said 48 million of the nation's 105 million families this year will
have at least one member who is underinsured or lacks insurance entirely.

"This is not a welfare problem; this reaches deep into the heart of the American
middle class," said Ronald Pollack, former dean of the Antioch Law School and
now the group's executive director.

The study, funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, based its projections
on a U.S. Census survey of health insurance coverage and the National Medical
Expenditure Survey.

California leads the group's list with 6.1 million inadequately insured families
and 10.3 million underinsured individuals. New Mexico has the greatest
percentage of inadequately insured people: 44 percent of the state's 1.6 million
residents.

Families USA released its report as the administration gears up to sell its
nearly completed health care reform plan to Congress.

The plan was to be presented to Congress by May 1, but it probably will be
delayed by the death of first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton's father, Hugh Rodham,
on Wednesday night.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH931120010

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                             102 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 7, 1994, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NEW LAW COULD EXTEND HEALTH INSURANCE FOR SOME

BYLINE: Bethe Growe and Nancy Dilley

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1280 words


Q. I heard there is a new law that will let an older woman stay on her
ex-husband's employer's health insurance plan until she goes on Medicare.  I've
been divorced over two years and I have health insurance through my ex-husband's
plan. . I was told that under a law called COBRA, I could stay on the insurance
plan for a total of three years. But I want to pay to stay on the plan longer
because I'm not sure I could get comparable insurance for the same price. (My
job doesn't provide health insurance.) What are my rights?

A. A Missouri law that went into effect last August may help you.  The new law
enables women and men, age 55 or older, who have COBRA continuation health
insurance through an ex-spouse's or deceased spouse's employer's group health
insurance to stay on the plan.

Because of the interplay between federal and state laws, the new law may not
apply to group health plans that are self-insured by the employer sponsoring the
plan.

The Missouri law extends insurance continuation rights not only to older
divorced or surviving spouses, but also to their dependent children. To the best
of our knowledge, Illinois does not have a similar law.

In order to give you an explanation of your rights under the Missouri law, we
need to back up a step. If the new law applies to you, it essentially will pick
up where COBRA leaves off.

The term "COBRA" is an acronym for the federal law called the "Consolidated
Omnibus Reconciliation Act." COBRA applies to most employers who sponsor group
health plans and have at least 20 full-time employees.

Under COBRA, employees and dependent family members must be allowed to
temporarily continue on an employer's group health plan at group rates in
situations in which coverage would otherwise end. This required continuation of
health insurance coverage is known as "COBRA coverage."

The length of time COBRA allows a person to continue on a health insurance plan
depends on the event that causes the loss of coverage.  For example, retirement
or other termination of employment or a reduction of hours - no matter the
employee's age - allows the employee and any covered dependent to stay on an
employer's group health plan up to 18 months.

But when an employee dies or, as in your case, the employee is divorced or
legally separated from his or her spouse, the law requires the group health plan
to extend COBRA coverage to the deceased employee's spouse or divorced
employee's ex-spouse for 36 months.

The Missouri law interfaces with COBRA only in those situations where the
employee covered by the employer group health plan dies or is divorced - other
situations triggering COBRA coverage, such as retirement, are not covered by the
new law.

Under the Missouri law, if the surviving spouse or the divorced spouse on COBRA
coverage is at least 55 years old when coverage runs out, the person must be
allowed to stay on the employer group insurance plan longer than the 36 months
required by COBRA. Coverage must continue until one of the following things
happen: the spouse turns 65, the spouse becomes insured under another group
health plan, group coverage is terminated for all group members, or the spouse
stops paying the required premiums.

The cost of continuing coverage under the Missouri law can be more than COBRA
coverage. To maintain the Missouri required extended insurance, the plan can
charge up to 125 percent of what it costs to insure similar persons, whereas
under COBRA, the plan can charge only 102 percent for coverage.

If you currently have COBRA coverage under your ex-husband's employer's group
health insurance plan, are at least 55 years old when the COBRA coverage ends,
and the group health plan is not self-insured by the employer, you may be able
to pay your own way to stay on the plan until you're age 65 and eligible for
Medicare (assuming the plan stays in effect until that time).

We say "may be able to" because the new law won't affect all group health plans
at the same time. You should check with your plan representative to verify when
the plan is subject to the new law and if the law's requirements will benefit
you.

If you can take advantage of the extended coverage, keep in mind that the
premium for the insurance can be pretty steep. You may not want to take
advantage of the additional continuation coverage - if you are a healthy
55-year-old, you may be able to purchase individual health insurance on your own
cheaper than 125 percent of the premium your ex-husband's employer's group
health plan may charge you to stay insured on its plan.

But if your health precludes you from getting insurance cheaper, perhaps you
should take advantage of the continuation coverage. The insurance will tide you
over until you're 65 and can go on Medicare.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             103 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Gulf Daily News

                                 March 23, 2015

Bill on health insurance for expats shelved

LENGTH: 227 words


A BILL that would have forced employers to provide private health insurance for
expatriate employees has been shelved.

Shura Council yesterday rejected the draft law, which was originally put forward
by parliament before last year's national elections.

As it was also rejected by the new parliament last month, it will now be
shelved.

The fact that the Cabinet is currently working on a new national health
insurance law that is expected to provide benefits to both expatriates and
Bahrainis was reason enough to reject the bill, council members said.

Shura services committee vice-chairman Nawar Al Mahmood said that the proposed
bill would have been "very complicated" to implement "as it would be difficult
for employers to determine what insurance policies it will cover and the range
of services they will have to provide their expatriate employers with".

"The current health law already tackles employers' contributions to medical
expenses through work permits, so this proposed law will create unnecessary
confusion," he said.

"The bill is also of a discriminatory nature as it deprives Bahrainis from
services that their colleagues and their families would receive.

"The Supreme Council for Health is currently studying the national health
insurance law for expatriates and Bahrainis and has been doing numerous studies
and research to ensure that it is applicable."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5


     Copyright 2015 Gulf Daily News - Hilal Publishing and Marketing Group.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             104 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                              March 4, 2007 Sunday

Artists ponder health care

BYLINE: By Jack Dew, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: TOP LOCAL; Local

LENGTH: 610 words


STOCKBRIDGE -- Bruce Barry, an Otis ceramic artist, sees the state's looming
health care reform law as both a potential blessing and a potential headache.

Barry, like many artists, is mostly self-employed. One year might be spent
making his work, while the next he might exhibit and sell. His income oscillates
accordingly. How, then, does he fit into the new health law? It might subsidize
his health insurance when he has a low-income year and then force him to join a
new, more expensive plan when he realizes the profits of his work.

"It gets more and more complicated," Barry said. "You are an artist by career,
but you become more and more like an accountant every day."

Complicated legislation

Barry was among a group of a dozen who attended a workshop on the new health
insurance reform law, held yesterday in the Berkshire Theater Festival's Unicorn
Theater. A panel of experts walked them through the complicated legislation that
is trying to make affordable health insurance available to everyone.

By July 1, every Massachusetts resident will be required to have health
coverage. Those who make 300 percent or less of the federal poverty level will
qualify for a lower-cost plan that is subsidized by the state.

Those who make more but aren't offered an affordable plan at work will be able
to buy insurance through the state's new Health Insurance Connector. According
to an announcement from Gov. Deval L. Patrick yesterday, that plan is expected
to cost roughly $175 a month and will include prescription drug coverage.

Artists occupy an important niche within the law: Many are self-employed or work
part-time or seasonally at institutions like the Berkshire Theater Festival.
Their income is often relatively low or, like Barry, fitful. Many have no
insurance or are possibly paying for plans that will not meet the state's
definition of "adequate."

Many questions remain

Faced with the looming July deadline, health leaders across the state are
scrambling to get the word out, and have held forums like yesterday's throughout
Massachusetts. But the experts acknowledged that there are still unanswered
questions.

"There are a lot of things we just don't know," said David Rice, a health care
consultant and professor. "This is a huge undertaking, and it is amazing that
the state has been able to do so much in so short a time. But in a lot of ways,
were are still waiting for the state to make some decisions."

Among the unanswered questions is what will constitute an employee. The law
requires any business that employs 11 or more people to offer health insurance
and to allow employees to withhold pre-tax money from their paychecks to cover
health expenses.

But many arts organizations -- like a theater company -- may operate for three
or four months a year with 40 employees, and the rest of the year with only
three. Will they be required to offer health insurance? No one yet knows.

Decisions to come

Several important decisions should come soon, said Charles Joffe-Halpern, a
member of the Health Insurance Connector board that is overseeing the
implementation of the new law. Joffe-Halpern is also executive director of
Ecu-Health Care in North Adams.

On March 20, Joffe-Halpern said, the Connector is expected to determine what
constitutes an "adequate" health insurance plan and to define what "affordable"
means. That will determine who must purchase health insurance by the July 1
deadline and who will be exempt.

"Education is absolutely going to be crucial, and there is no white paper on how
to do it," Joffe-Halpern said. "Outreach and enrollment is going to be crucial,
and we know it."

For more information, visit www.healthcareforartists.org .

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Artists listen during yesterday's presentation on the changing health
insurance laws at the Berkshire Theater Festival's Unicorn Theater in
Stockbridge.Photo by Caroline Bonnivier / Berkshire Eagle Staff

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             105 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: How Republicans Can Cut Through the Obamacare Chaos After King v.
Burwell

LENGTH: 1425  words

DATELINE: Washington


The Heartland Institute has issued the following news release:

The Supreme Court's ruling in the case of King v. Burwell will come out within
the next three months. Because the Obama administration did not follow its own
law as passed by congressional Democrats and signed by President Obama, that
decision will turn Obamacare inside out, creating chaos in health insurance and
health care.

The Obamacare law provides for substantial federal subsidies to help pay for
health insurance purchased on a health exchange established by a state. But if a
state does not successfully establish an exchange, the Obamacare law provides
that the secretary of HHS can establish a federal exchange for the state. The
plain text of the Obamacare law, however, pointedly does not provide the
Obamacare subsidies for health insurance purchased on such a federal exchange.

The Obama administration wizards designing Obamacare have already told us why
they wrote Obamacare that way. Under the Constitution, the federal government
does not have the power to order states to establish exchanges. So they limited
the health insurance benefits under Obamacare to exchanges established by the
states to give the states an irresistible incentive to establish their own state
exchanges, so their citizens could get their Obamacare benefits.

But the wizards did not recognize that Obamacare would be so unpopular that 34
states would refuse to set up state exchanges anyway. Two more states tried to
set up Obamacare exchanges but failed and gave up. So only 14 states established
Obamacare exchanges, and 36 did not.

But President Obama does not take such personal rejection very well. So he
ordered the IRS to issue a regulation that the Obamacare health insurance
subsidies, which are in the form of tax credits, would be provided for health
insurance purchased on either exchanges established by the states or exchanges
established by the federal government, the Obamacare law to the contrary
notwithstanding. The Democrats impeached Nixon to establish the principle that
the president is not above the law, and must obey it, and since then have
established that this principle applies only to Republican presidents, not to
Democrat ones.

What made this presidential misconduct subject to legal challenge is that the
Obamacare statute also provides that the employer mandate and the individual
mandate apply only where the Obamacare health insurance subsidies apply. That
gave parties subject to the employer mandate and the individual mandate
sufficient injury to have legal standing to challenge the IRS misinterpretation
of the law in court.

If the Court rules by this summer for the petitioners in King v. Burwell, the
Obamacare health insurance subsidies will be struck down in the 36 states that
do not have state exchanges. Moreover, the employer mandate and the individual
mandate will be effectively shut down in those 36 states as well. That is what I
expect the Court to do. The statutory language is unambiguously clear, and
governs in this case. The IRS regulation that extended the Obamacare subsidies
to the federal exchanges, and all 50 states, is illegal under federal law, and
must and will be struck down.

The question is, what should the Republican Congress, and the mostly Republican
governors and state legislatures, do, then, to fix the supposed problem such a
decision will create - effectively dashing Obamacare in at least 36 states?
Democratic Party-controlled media will join President Obama and congressional
Democrats wailing about millions of sick people in 36 states who could no longer
afford costly Obamacare health insurance without the Obamacare subsidies. That
Obamacare health insurance is so costly because the Obamacare federal
overregulation adds so much cost to the insurance.

The villains in this morality play will be Republican governors and legislators
who will not support establishing state exchanges to restore Obamacare in their
states, and congressional Republicans who will not just change federal law to
re-establish Obamacare in all 50 states. But Republicans cannot possibly be so
silly as to give in to these Obama Democrat demands.

Republicans and conservatives should use Obama's defeat in King v. Burwell to
embark on the political offensive against Obamacare. Instead of caving in to
Obama Democrat demands, Republicans and conservatives need to go on the
offensive by demanding that Democrat governors and legislatures in blue states
repeal their state exchanges, on the grounds that such will abolish the
unpopular and economically counterproductive employer and individual mandates.

Congressional Republicans should also pass federal legislation that would ramp
up this counterattack on Obamacare. Since states without state exchanges will
then have opted out of the benefits of Obamacare, congressional Republicans
should pass legislation providing that the citizens of those states have opted
out of the Obamacare taxes as well. That includes a 3.8% surcharge on capital
investment (capital gains and corporate dividends) and a 30% increase in their
Medicare payroll taxes. The Obamacare tax on medical device manufacturers and
health insurance would also be abolished in those states, along with all other
Obamacare taxes.

In addition, the new federal legislation should also provide that all the
federal Obamacare regulations shall also not apply in states without state
exchanges. Those states will be considered to have opted out of the Obamacare
regulation as well. Those states can then go back to their original state
regulation of health insurance. Of course, the individual mandate and the
employer mandate would no longer apply in those states, either.

The key implication of those regulatory changes is that all the Obamacare
increases in the cost of health insurance will be reversed as well. And without
those Obamacare cost increases in health insurance, the Obamacare subsidies
would no longer be needed, either, at least among those who are not poor.

For the poor and needy, the legislation should further provide for block
granting Medicaid back to the states, exactly as the enormously successful 1996
welfare reforms for the former Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC)
program did. The new federal block grants to the states for Medicaid should
include the Obamacare Medicaid expansion funds for all states, as an inducement
to states to support the block grant reforms. That would be scored by CBO as a
sharp reduction in federal Medicaid costs overall.
States would ideally use their resulting new control over Medicaid to provide
for Medicaid benefits in the form of health insurance vouchers that the poor
could use to help buy the health insurance of their choice, including Health
Savings Accounts. That would vastly improve health care for the poor, who cannot
get timely, essential health care through Medicaid today because the states so
badly underfund payments to doctors and hospitals for health care provided under
Medicaid. Private insurers, by contrast, must adequately compensate doctors and
hospitals to be able to attract health insurance customers in the competitive
marketplace.

The Medicaid block grants should also include the funding for the State
Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which the states could also then
run in conjunction with their new Medicaid programs. States should also be
authorized to use some of those Medicaid block grant funds to establish state
uninsurable risk pools, where those uninsured who cannot get private health
insurance because they contracted highly costly diseases like cancer or heart
disease while uninsured can be assured of coverage for such pre-existing
conditions.

Republicans and conservatives who can't or won't vigorously and articulately
argue the case for these Obamacare reforms should be replaced with new
leadership. We must also present and argue for the full Patient Power,
free-market health care vision that will replace Obamacare once the currently
serving Great Mistake in the White House is replaced with new leadership next
year as well.

Sure, Obama could veto this King v Burwell fix for his broken, failed Obamacare
program. But he and his pajama boys would then have to live with his Obamacare
disaster for another year or so, until another President can be elected. Such an
Obama veto would further clarify for the public what is at stake in that
election, which cannot come too soon.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             106 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            November 7, 1993, Sunday

Basic plan won't cover eyeglasses, hearing aids

BYLINE: By Bill Hendrick STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 4

LENGTH: 518 words


Some commonly asked questions about President Clinton's 1,342-page health care
reform plan:

Q: We've heard a lot about minimum benefits. What won't be covered by the basic
package outlined by Clinton?

A:Anything deemed by a doctor to be medically unnecessary - private hospital
rooms, adult eyeglasses and contact lenses, hearing aids and cosmetic surgery.

Initially, it also would not cover preventive dental care for adults or
orthodontics. But those benefits would be phased in by the year 2001 - if your
teeth haven't taken a space odyssey by then.

Mental health and substance abuse benefits, which are limited at first, also
would be expanded by 2001.

Nothing would prevent people from buying these services themselves or from
purchasing supplemental insurance to cover them.

Q: Given the number of plans, is it realistic to think a reform bill will become
law next year?

A: Don't bet too heavily on it. It could easily be 1995 or even later. The plan
is simply too complex, and there are too many arguments to be made in too many
committees by too many representatives and senators who are diametrically
opposed to each other's positions.

Q: If the Clinton plan becomes law, what's it going to do to the economy?

A: Slow it down a bit, most likely. Indeed, economists say the threat of reform
probably will brake economic growth a little and fairly soon, even though
there's no chance any bill will become law before late next year.

Q: Why is that?

A: One big reason is that the Clinton plan says businesses will have to pay 80
percent of the cost of health insurance for all employees. That's a lot of
money.

So businesses, unsure whether that percentage will be lowered, will be cautious
about hiring. The more employees they have, the more they might have to shell
out for health insurance.

Q: Just how much will businesses have to pay?

A: No business would be required to pay more than 7.9 percent of payroll for
health insurance. Low-wage businesses with 75 or fewer employees would receive
substantial government-subsidized discounts, depending on the size of the
company and the average wage. But you can logically expect companies with 78 or
80 employees to reduce that number to 74 or 73.

Q: OK, so what will coverage cost the average American?

A: Based on projected 1994 prices, the total premiums for average- priced
coverage would be $ 4,360 for a two-parent family with children, $ 3,893 for a
single-parent family, $ 3,865 for a couple and $ 1,932 for a single person.

But each family or single individual would be required to pay no more than 20
percent of the premium, and no one would be asked to pay more than 3.9 percent
of his annual income.

The average premium payment would amount to $ 73 per month for a two- parent
family with children, $ 65 a month for a single-parent family, $ 64 a month for
a couple and $ 32 a month for a single person.

There also would be some deductibles and co-payments at the time of treatment,
depending on the type of coverage you select. No deductible would exceed $ 200 a
year for an individual or $ 400 for a family.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH933130075

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                             107 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                            October 8, 2013, Tuesday

Don't fall victim to health insurance scams;
Watch for schemers taking advantage of health care confusion

BYLINE: Patrick Morrisey

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 650 words


ON Oct. 1, health insurance exchanges opened in West Virginia and throughout the
nation to sign people up for insurance as part of the Affordable Care Act, or
Obamacare.

This is a significant change because for the first time ever, every American
citizen will be required to have health insurance by Jan. 1 or face tax
penalties.

This law is expected to affect tens of thousands of West Virginians who
currently do not have health insurance and will be required to either buy
private insurance on the exchange or take part in government-funded public
insurance.

But the general confusion about this law - what consumers need to buy and how
they should buy it - also is opening the door for schemers who may use this
opportunity to take advantage of you or your neighbors.

Our office's Consumer Protection Division will play a pivotal role in protecting
consumers' privacy and fighting fraudulent schemes that will arise from the
implementation of the new law.

Over the next several months, we will actively work with citizens of West
Virginia to educate them on facts they need to know about the new law and take
calls through our hotline if they encounter problems.

Any time new programs roll out, there are bound to be unethical people who try
to take advantage of confusion. Each person should take the time to learn about
the new law and what it means to them using trusted, reliable sources.

However, our office also is trying to educate consumers about the do's and
don'ts when it comes to health care:

-Do not give any personal or financial information to people who make
unsolicited calls or visits and say you must provide the information to either
receive or keep health insurance coverage. Reputable sources will not use
strong-arm tactics or intimidation to get you to surrender private information.
Significantly, navigators are prohibited from going door to door.

-Do not believe anyone who threatens you with a fine for not having health
insurance. While there will be a penalty on people who do not have some form of
health insurance beginning in 2014, that penalty will be assessed on federal
income tax returns; it will not come in the form of a bill or someone calling
and demanding a payment.

-Do not respond to offers for an Affordable Care Act or Obamacare card. Those
types of cards do not exist and are not legitimate.

-If someone asks you to wire money, disclose your bank account number or deposit
money on a prepaid card, hang up, close the door or walk away.

-Avoid websites that may have been created by scammers to fool people into
releasing private information. The best way to ensure you are using a legitimate
site is to look at the web address in your search engine bar. If the address
looks strange or has misspellings, doesn't start with https:// indicating a
secure login, or uses unfamiliar domain codes (such as .info, .mx, .uk instead
of .com, .org or .gov) it may be a fake website.

-Keep track of your bank accounts and credit card balances so you can see if
anything has been misused. If you see a questionable expenditure, let your bank,
credit card and the three credit bureaus - Equifax, Experian and TransUnion -
know immediately.

Our office is very concerned about the risk of fraud and/or identity theft with
this new program.

The best way to ensure your personal information stays safe is to only provide
it to people who are legitimately trained to provide assistance.

However, trained assisters and navigators cannot recommend a specific plan.
Anyone who tries to push or manipulate you into picking a specific program
should be viewed as illegitimate.

If you think you have been scammed or approached by someone trying to scam you,
call the Attorney General's Office Consumer Protection Division at 800-368-8808,
the Better Business Bureau at 866-228-1820 or the Federal Trade Commission at
1-877-FTC-HELP.

Patrick Morrisey is the Attorney General of West Virginia.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Charleston Newspapers


                             108 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 24, 2017 Friday

Washington: Healthcare Rescue Mission Begins

LENGTH: 421  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the MP Tom Graves has issued the following news release:



 Beginning the healthcare reform process, the House passed the Competitive
Health Insurance Reform Act (H.R. 372) and the Small Business Health Fairness
Act (H.R. 1101). These bills are part of Phase 3 of President Trump's healthcare
plan.





 H.R. 372 ends the health insurance industry's exemption from antitrust and
unfair trade practices laws, which were originally enacted to protect new health
insurance companies and ensure state authority over insurance.



 Speaking of H.R. 372, Rep. Graves (R-GA-14) said, "It's Economics 101 that
competition reduces prices and improves quality. In 2017, health insurance
companies have no business being exempted from antitrust laws, which prevent
monopolies and ensure fair competition in the marketplace. Anyone who believes
in the free market should support this commonsense reform."



 H.R. 1101 would allow small businesses to pool together to create Association
Health Plans, which would reduce the cost of insurance by creating larger pools
for small businesses.



 Concerning H.R. 1101, Rep. Graves said, "Association Health Plans will help
small businesses provide affordable health insurance for employees and their
families. They will put small business on a level playing field with large
corporations, which can provide health insurance cheaper because they have more
employees. This innovative idea could help thousands of small businesses across
the country provide insurance for their employees."



 President Trump's healthcare plan has three concurrent phases:



 1. The American Health Care Act, which repeals Obamacare's taxes and mandates,
and replaces them with expanded Health Saving Accounts and age-based tax credits
to help low- and middle-income families in the individual market purchase health
insurance; additionally, the bill makes significant reforms to Medicaid, such as
allowing states to receive federal funds through block grants and pursue work
requirements for able-bodied adults without dependents;



 2. Administrative Actions, which Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price
will take to eliminate harmful regulations and allow more choice and competition
in the health insurance marketplace;



 3. Additional Legislation, to increase competition and expand access to care,
including the legislation the House passed today, H.R. 372 and H.R. 1101.



 On Thursday, the House is scheduled to consider Phase 1 of the president's
plan, the American Health Care Act (H.R. 1628).

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             109 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 14, 1994 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

HEALTH INSURANCE: NEW LAW ADDRESSES PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS. STATE AIMS TO CUT
POLICY EXCLUSIONS

BYLINE: DONNA ALVARADO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1621 words


Donna Casalino's family paid thousands of dollars last year for a health
insurance policy with loopholes so big you could drive a truck through them.

But thanks to a new state law, on Jan. 1 the loopholes were closed -- and the
San Jose family won't have to pay much more for coverage. The new law limits to
one year the length of time that insurance companies can refuse to cover chronic
medical conditions for individual subscribers and their families.

"It makes a big difference in people's lives," said Casalino, a 46-year- old
homemaker in San Jose's Willow Glen neighborhood who has worried about her
family's medical bills. "This will help them sleep easier at night."

Polls show so many people fear losing their health insurance because of problems
like the Casalinos' that it has become one of the main forces driving public
support for health care reform. One Kaiser Family Foundation survey in 1992
estimated that 7 million people nationwide had been denied health insurance
because of their medical conditions.

For a lot of people, such as the Casalinos, who have been paying longer than a
year for a policy that covered everything but their main problems, the new law
offers instant peace of mind. From now on, their health insurance will cover
Constantine Casalino's high blood pressure and old back injury and his wife's
gynecological care.

For others not already covered, however, who apply for health insurance as
individuals in the coming year, the new state law could backfire. At least one
big insurance company, Blue Cross, is warning that it may have to reject more
high-risk applicants to compensate for the costs of people who will go from
partial to full coverage under the new law.

"It's a mixed blessing," said Richard Figueroa, a deputy director of
California's Major Risk Medical Insurance Board.

There are no sure estimates of how many people will be affected by the law. But
Blue Cross, one of California's biggest insurers, said 23 percent of its
individual subscribers had policies that excluded one or more medical
conditions.

Who is affected

The law applies only to people who have individual or family policies. But
another law, which took effect July 1, applies similar benefits to people in
group policies covering three or more people. That law limits to six months the
amount of time insurers can exclude pre-existing medical conditions from
coverage.

Before the new laws took effect, there was no limit on how long insurers could
exclude those conditions.

Both laws, sponsored by Assemblyman Burt Margolin, D-Los Angeles, were meant to
attack two trends in the health insurance industry that worry millions of
Americans: excluding pre-existing medical conditions, and the resulting "job
lock."

Once people develop chronic illness -- such as heart disease, diabetes or high
blood pressure -- they can have trouble getting health insurance if they change
insurance companies or change jobs. The medical conditions are considered
"pre-existing" under their new insurance policy, and they may be charged
prohibitively high premium rates, denied coverage or offered only a partial
policy that does not cover their known problems.

That discourages many people from changing employers, a predicament known as job
lock that keeps many people in frustrating or low-paying jobs for fear of losing
their health insurance.

Job lock has become increasingly common in recent years. A 1992 Kaiser Family
Foundation survey found that one in five workers said they or a close relative
were locked into their jobs because they feared their new work offered limited
or no health insurance.

Just a 'major blow'

"It's a major blow against job lock. But it doesn't end it," said Margolin, who
sponsored the laws in the Legislature and heads the Assembly Health Committee.
People still may be reluctant to leave their current jobs to join small
companies that don't provide health insurance at all. "Plenty of employers out
there don't believe they can afford it," Margolin said.

But the laws at least force insurers to be more honest. "You can't play this
game of pretending to offer coverage when . . . the exclusions make the policy
nearly worthless," Margolin said.

The Casalinos have had nominal insurance -- illness is covered as long as it
doesn't have anything to do with Constantine's high blood pressure; his old back
problem; their teen-age daughter's spinal condition, called scoliosis, or any
gynecological condition in Donna related to what their former insurer vaguely
described as a "questionable" pap smear.

They've been grateful for even this minimal coverage. When Constantine was laid
off from his job in the aerospace industry almost three years ago, they found
themselves out of luck when it came to affordable health insurance. The initial
continuation policy they were offered from his former employer cost $570 a month
-- which they paid as long as they could get it.

But when that policy ran out after 18 months, the only new policy they could get
would have cost them almost double. "It was so ludicrous," Donna Casalino said.
"It would have cost us . . . something like $15,000 a year for a maximum
$100,000 lifetime benefit.

"If I hadn't laughed about it, I would have cried."

After checking around, they found Blue Cross was willing to offer them a policy
as long as it excluded their pre-existing medical conditions, for a premium of
$336 every other month.

Ill feeling about insurers

Overall, their experience has left Donna Casalino a little bitter about the
health insurance industry. Every time an insurer finds a record of a medical
problem, she said, it tries to exclude it from coverage. In insurance company
parlance, it's called attaching a waiver to the medical condition.

"What the insurance companies really want are young people with perfect health
records," she said. "If you've ever been diagnosed with anything they think will
cost the insurance company anything in the future, they'll just waiver you."

The Casalinos' medical problems -- high blood pressure, back problems -- are
some of the most common conditions for any family. "If you sneeze, you have a
pre-existing condition," Donna Casalino said.

One consumer advocate said getting health insurance coverage for individuals
with such mundane medical problems is a common problem.

"I've heard of situations where people could not get coverage because of
bunions," said Maria Ferrer, executive director of Health Access, a non- profit
advocacy group in San Francisco. "Diabetics have a lot of difficulty obtaining
coverage. Any kind of long-term chronic illness can do it."

Both laws limit how much insurers can increase their premiums for people with
chronic or high-risk medical problems. They may be no more than 20 percent over
their their standard rates for subscribers of the same age, geographic area and
family size.

One possible loophole

One way insurers may compensate for the new laws is to reject individual
applicants who, before the new laws, would have been eligible for at least
partial coverage.

"Most people are predicting that the rejection rate will increase," said David
Ludwig, senior vice president for sales and marketing for Blue Cross of
California. "There are no free lunches."

And Figueroa, the state insurance official, said his department was bracing for
an increase in applications to a special program that covers people rejected by
insurers because they have high-risk medical problems. The program is called
"MRMIP" for Major Risk Medical Insurance Program.

Ludwig said his company planned to send letters notifying all its subscribers
and agents of changes under the new law.

It is not clear whether other insurance companies will follow suit. While the
new laws don't specifically state this, "I think it's implicit that they have to
be notified," said Marsha Seeley, senior staff counsel at the state Department
of Insurance. "But some of the less conscientious companies may sit back and
wait for their subscribers to assert their rights."
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

For more information on the new state health insurance laws, call the state
Department of Insurance consumer hot line at (800) 927-4357. (The July 1 law is
AB 1672; the Jan. 1 law is AB 1786.) For more information about MRMIP, call
(800) 289-6574, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Thursday or 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. on
Fridays.

HIGHLIGHTS IN NEW LAW

Here are some main points under the new state law that limits how long insurance
companies may exclude pre-existing medical conditions in individual subscribers
and their families:

(box)Wipes out the insurance practice of selling health policies that forever
exclude coverage of cancer, diabetes, heart attacks or other serious illnesses
as a pre-existing condition.

(box)Prohibits health insurance policies that cover one or two individuals from
excluding coverage on the basis of a pre-existing condition for more than 12
months.

(box)Limits the 12-month exclusion period to one time only. Insurers cannot
impose a new 12-month delay when you change coverage, as long as the period
without health coverage is minimal (90 days if you change jobs or lose
employment-based coverage; 30 days in other instances).

(box)Limits an insurer's pre-existing condition provision to only conditions for
which advice or treatment was recommended or received during the previous 12
months. For example, an insurer no longer may exclude heart attacks on the basis
of a person's heart attack 10 years ago.

(box)Does not force insurers to accept all applicants for individual coverage;
the insurer still has the right to reject those with serious or chronic medical
conditions.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Additional information attached to the end of this story

CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 1994

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 1/18/94, pg. 4A)
Because of a reporter's error, a story about a new health insurance law in
Friday's Mercury News contained an incorrect designation for an assembly bill.
The law, which reduces the length of time insurance can be denied for pre-
existing conditions, is AB 1768.

                     Copyright 1994 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             110 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                             Pensions & Investments
                                 Print Version

                                 April 6, 2015

Five years of health care reform law

SECTION: Pg. NaN

LENGTH: 234  words


March 23, 2010 President Barack Obama signs the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act in the East Room of the White House.

March 24, 2010 Attorneys general in 13 states sue the federal government
maintaining that the reform law is unconstitutional.

Sept. 23, 2010 Employers begin to implement new health care reforms, including
dependent health insurance coverage up to age 26.

Dec. 13, 2010 A federal judge in Virginia strikes down the individual mandate,
the first successful legal challenge targeting a key provision of the health
reform law.

Nov. 14, 2011 The Supreme Court agrees to hear arguments against the law after
numerous state lawsuits and split appeals court decisions.

June 28, 2012 The U.S. Supreme Court upholds the law's individual mandate and
makes state Medicaid expansions optional.

July 2, 2013 White House delays employer mandate until 2015.

Oct. 1, 2013 Federal and state health insurance exchanges open for business.

Jan. 1, 2014 Federally subsidized health insurance coverage takes effect.

June 30, 2014 The high court, in a 5-4 decision, strikes down the law's mandate
requiring family-owned Christian companies to pay for contraception benefits.

Jan. 1, 2015 Employer mandate for businesses with 100 or more workers takes
effect.

March 4, 2015 Supreme Court hears oral arguments in King v. Burwell on legality
of using premium subsidies in the exchange run by the federal government.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PI


                      Copyright 2015 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             111 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                            April 22, 2017 Saturday

UAE legal Q&As: Should I help my sister by giving her my health insurance card?

LENGTH: 304  words


qMy sister works in a low salary job and is not provided with medical insurance.
I wondered, if I wanted to help her by giving her my health insurance card to
use, would I be in any trouble?

aIt is worth noting that if your sister works in either Abu Dhabi or Dubai
emirates, she is entitled to health cover from her employer as both emirates
have mandatory health insurance enshrined in law. So, if this is the case she
should make her employer aware of their obligations and, if that proves
fruitless, she can report her employer to the health authority for failing to
abide by their legal obligations. On the matter of offering your card, I would
urge you to think twice before doing so as there are potentially severe
penalties if you were to be caught. For example, Article 23 of the Dubai Health
Insurance Law No 11 of 2013 states that misuse of health insurance cards can
result in a fine ranging from Dh500 up to as much as Dh150,000. In Abu Dhabi,
Article 24 from Abu Dhabi Health Insurance Law No 23 of 2005 states that fines
range from Dh5,000 to Dh200,000. Regardless of which emirate she lives in,
misuse of a health insurance card constitutes a felony in accordance with
Article 216 of the Federal Penal Law and Article 217 states that such an action
is punishable with imprisonment for no more than three years, as it is
considered a forgery. This could potentially apply to both you and your sister
so it is certainly not advised.

Yousef Al Bahar is an advocate at Al Bahar and Associates Advocates and Legal
Consultants.

If you have a question for our lawyer, please email it to
newsdesk@thenational.ae with the subject line "Know the law".

The advice provided in our columns does not constitute legal advice and is
provided for information only. Readers are encouraged to seek appropriate
independent legal advice.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2017 Abu Dhabi Media Company
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             112 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Independent Record (Helena, Montana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday

Governor vetoes bills, takes aim at GOP

BYLINE: Mike Dennison, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 666 words


April 02--Gov. Brian Schweitzer on Friday vetoed two Republican bills attacking
the federal health-reform law, but not without throwing in his own slam on the
law -- and taking a poke at GOP lawmakers accepting publicly funded health
benefits from the state.

Schweitzer issued amendatory vetoes for Senate Bill 106, which requires Attorney
General Steve Bullock to join a multistate lawsuit challenging the federal law,
and SB125, which forbids the state from enforcing the federal law's mandate that
everyone buy health insurance by 2014.

In an amendatory veto, the governor proposes changes to a bill that has passed
both houses of the Legislature.

Lawmakers can choose to accept, modify, reject or override the governor's
proposed changes. If they reject or modify the changes, Schweitzer gets another
chance to accept or outright veto the bill.

Both bills passed the House and Senate on largely party-line votes with
Republicans in favor. Republicans have a two-thirds majority in the House that
can override a veto, but lack the same super-majority in the Senate.

Schweitzer used his veto of SB125 to criticize the federal health-reform law for
omitting a government-offered health insurance plan that would compete with
private insurance, known as the "public option."

He said requiring individuals to buy health insurance and other provisions of
the law "are onerous to individuals and small employers because no low-cost,
public health insurance option is available to Montanans."

He said he would sign the bill prohibiting state enforcement of the federal
law's individual health-insurance mandate if it includes a "legislative finding"
that says the mandate would impose unneeded costs because it has "no low-cost
public health insurance option."

Sen. Art Wittich, R-Bozeman, the sponsor of SB125, said Friday he's adamantly
opposed to the public option, but isn't sure whether he wants to accept
Schweitzer's change and let the mandate-enforcement prohibition become law.

"What I need to do is talk to some of the other legislators who are familiar
with our state-based health reforms, and get their counsel," he said.

On SB106, Schweitzer's veto said the bill should "encourage" rather than
"require" Bullock to file suit against the federal health-reform law, because
the attorney general should use his own "independent judgment ... on how to
litigate on behalf of the state."

Then, he threw in a kicker: Joining the lawsuit would cost the state money,
which has to come from somewhere -- and that somewhere is the pocket of GOP
legislators who voted for the bill.

Schweitzer proposed striking one-half of the annual funding for state health
care benefits for the 93 Republican lawmakers who voted for the bill -- $409,000
-- and putting that toward funding participation in the lawsuit.

"I find it particularly ironic that some legislators are willing to spend
Montana taxpayers' money to challenge the federal health-reform act for symbolic
reasons, while at the same time deriving personal advantage from state health
care laws and policies that allow them, as legislators, to receive
taxpayer-funded health insurance benefits," the governor wrote in his veto
message.

Sen. Jason Priest, R-Red Lodge, the sponsor of SB106, indicated Friday he won't
accept the proposed changes, issuing the following statement: "Rather than
protect Montanans' jobs, health care and freedoms from Obamacare, Gov.
Schweitzer is playing boyish pranks. ... We need our governor and Attorney
General Bullock to stick up for hard-working Montanans."

Bullock, a Democrat, has declined to join the lawsuit, saying it's too costly
and that he doesn't think it will succeed.

To see more of the Independent Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.helenair.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110402-HE-Governor-vetoes-bills-takes-aim-at-GOP-20110402

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HE


                       Copyright 2011 Independent Record


                             113 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            December 29, 2006 Friday

Sakai out 430 mil. yen in unpaid premiums

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 196 words

DATELINE: OSAKA


The Sakai municipal government in Osaka Prefecture failed to collect 430 million
yen in unpaid national health insurance premiums as a result of errors regarding
the National Health Insurance Law, the municipal government said.

Unpaid national health insurance premiums amounting to 670 million yen, owed by
3,666 households from fiscal 2003 to 2006, were treated as losses due to a
misunderstanding about the law's statute of limitations.

The municipal government expects to collect about 240 million yen of the unpaid
premiums. However, the statue of limitations on the rest--about 430 million yen
for 2,538 households--has already run out, making those premiums uncollectible.
The municipal government plans to punish officials involved in the case. The
National Health Insurance Law stipulates that the statute of limitations for
collecting national health insurance premiums is two years.

According to the municipal government, its insurance and pension management
section sends a list of citizens who have not paid the premiums for two years to
seven ward offices. The ward offices then delete from the lists the names of
citizens who have applied to make alternative payments.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                             114 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                           February 11, 2014 Tuesday

Daman to open first branch in Sharjah

BYLINE: Adam Bouyamourn

LENGTH: 348  words


Daman opens a new branch in Sharjah, as health insurance legislation creates
business for underwriters.

Daman is set to open its first branch in Sharjah as the emirate's recent
mandatory health insurance law creates new business for insurers.
The branch will be located in Crystal Plaza on Corniche Road.


Dr Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed, Ruler of Sharjah, introduced a health insurance
scheme to provide coverage for all government employees and their families last
June.
In 2006, Abu Dhabi introduced mandatory health insurance coverage, which
required employers to insure their employees, while Dubai introduced a similar
policy in November.
The details of a national healthcare law, which has been four years in the
making, are still being worked out by the Ministry of Finance, the Federal
National Council was told last month.
Local health stocks have gained over the past few months as new health insurance
laws create business for medical underwriters and healthcare providers alike.
NMC Health, a UAE-based healthcare company, gained  more than 62 per cent in the
second half of last year, while the Al Noor Hospitals Group gained more than 51
per cent over the same period, according to data from Bloomberg News.
Speaking to The National in December, Mohammad Kamal, director of equity
research at Arqaam Capital, predicted that new healthcare laws would lead to a
substantial rise in "insurance claims and premiums written".
A report from Ernst & Young, published last month, predicted that healthcare
spending in the region would increase by 11.4 per cent over the next two years.

Daman is majority owned by the Abu Dhabi Government, which holds 80 per cent of
the company, while the remainder is owned by Munich Re, a German reinsurance
company.
"The opening of our first branch in Sharjah is an important step forward in our
expansion plans across the nation," said Dr Michael Bitzer, Daman's chief
executive.
The company said that demand for its insurance plans from the emirate had
increased in recent years, making the branch opening a logical next step.
abouyamourn@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2014 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             115 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 13, 2015 Friday

Idaho: The Boss Can Force You To Buy Company's Health Insurance

LENGTH: 497  words

DATELINE: Boise


American Falls District Library of Idaho has issued the followinga news release:

Under the health law, large employers that don't offer their full-time workers
comprehensive, affordable health insurance face a fine. But some employers are
taking it a step further and requiring workers to buy the company insurance,
whether they want it or not.

Many workers may have no choice but to comply.

Some workers are upset. One disgruntled reader wrote to Kaiser Health News: "My
employer is requiring me to purchase health insurance and is automatically
taking the premium out of my paycheck even though I don't want to sign up for
health insurance. Is this legal?"

The short answer is yes. Under the federal health law, employers with 100 or
more full-time workers can enroll them in company coverage without their say as
long as the plan is deemed affordable and adequate. That means the employee
contribution is no more than 9.5 percent of the federal poverty guideline and
the plan pays for at least 60 percent of covered medical expenses, on average.

"If you offer an employee minimum essential coverage that provides minimum value
and is affordable, you need not provide an opt out," says Seth Perretta, a
partner at Groom Law Group, a Washington, D.C., firm specializing in employee
benefits.

If a plan doesn't meet those standards, however, employees must be given the
opportunity to decline those company plans, under the health law. They can shop
for coverage on the health insurance marketplaces and may qualify for premium
tax credits if their income is between 100 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level.

Those premium subsidies aren't available to workers whose employer offers good
coverage that meets the law's standards.

Not that many employers are expected to strong arm their workers into buying
health insurance. Those that do may be confused about their responsibilities
under the health law, mistakenly believing that in order to avoid penalties they
have to enroll their workers in coverage.

"That is just dead wrong," says Timothy Jost, a law professor at Washington and
Lee University who's an expert on the health law.

"Nothing in the Affordable Care Act directs employers to make their coverage
mandatory for employees," says a Treasury Department spokesperson. The law
requires large employers "to either offer coverage or pay a fee if their
full-time workers access tax credits to get coverage on their own in the
marketplace."

Employer penalties for not offering insurance that meets the health law's
standards can run up to $3,000 per employee.

For employers, forcing coverage on their workers could be counterproductive. "Do
you really want to limit employees' ability to select whether they get this
coverage?" says Amy Bergner, managing director at human resources consultant
PwC. "What impact does that have from talent management perspective?"

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             116 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 13, 2015 Friday

Idaho: The Boss Can Force You To Buy Company's Health Insurance

LENGTH: 497  words

DATELINE: Boise


American Falls District Library of Idaho has issued the followinga news release:

Under the health law, large employers that don't offer their full-time workers
comprehensive, affordable health insurance face a fine. But some employers are
taking it a step further and requiring workers to buy the company insurance,
whether they want it or not.

Many workers may have no choice but to comply.

Some workers are upset. One disgruntled reader wrote to Kaiser Health News: "My
employer is requiring me to purchase health insurance and is automatically
taking the premium out of my paycheck even though I don't want to sign up for
health insurance. Is this legal?"

The short answer is yes. Under the federal health law, employers with 100 or
more full-time workers can enroll them in company coverage without their say as
long as the plan is deemed affordable and adequate. That means the employee
contribution is no more than 9.5 percent of the federal poverty guideline and
the plan pays for at least 60 percent of covered medical expenses, on average.

"If you offer an employee minimum essential coverage that provides minimum value
and is affordable, you need not provide an opt out," says Seth Perretta, a
partner at Groom Law Group, a Washington, D.C., firm specializing in employee
benefits.

If a plan doesn't meet those standards, however, employees must be given the
opportunity to decline those company plans, under the health law. They can shop
for coverage on the health insurance marketplaces and may qualify for premium
tax credits if their income is between 100 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level.

Those premium subsidies aren't available to workers whose employer offers good
coverage that meets the law's standards.

Not that many employers are expected to strong arm their workers into buying
health insurance. Those that do may be confused about their responsibilities
under the health law, mistakenly believing that in order to avoid penalties they
have to enroll their workers in coverage.

"That is just dead wrong," says Timothy Jost, a law professor at Washington and
Lee University who's an expert on the health law.

"Nothing in the Affordable Care Act directs employers to make their coverage
mandatory for employees," says a Treasury Department spokesperson. The law
requires large employers "to either offer coverage or pay a fee if their
full-time workers access tax credits to get coverage on their own in the
marketplace."

Employer penalties for not offering insurance that meets the health law's
standards can run up to $3,000 per employee.

For employers, forcing coverage on their workers could be counterproductive. "Do
you really want to limit employees' ability to select whether they get this
coverage?" says Amy Bergner, managing director at human resources consultant
PwC. "What impact does that have from talent management perspective?"

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             117 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday

Idaho: The Boss Can Force You To Buy Company's Health Insurance

LENGTH: 497  words

DATELINE: Boise


American Falls District Library of Idaho has issued the followinga news release:

Under the health law, large employers that don't offer their full-time workers
comprehensive, affordable health insurance face a fine. But some employers are
taking it a step further and requiring workers to buy the company insurance,
whether they want it or not.

Many workers may have no choice but to comply.

Some workers are upset. One disgruntled reader wrote to Kaiser Health News: "My
employer is requiring me to purchase health insurance and is automatically
taking the premium out of my paycheck even though I don't want to sign up for
health insurance. Is this legal?"

The short answer is yes. Under the federal health law, employers with 100 or
more full-time workers can enroll them in company coverage without their say as
long as the plan is deemed affordable and adequate. That means the employee
contribution is no more than 9.5 percent of the federal poverty guideline and
the plan pays for at least 60 percent of covered medical expenses, on average.

"If you offer an employee minimum essential coverage that provides minimum value
and is affordable, you need not provide an opt out," says Seth Perretta, a
partner at Groom Law Group, a Washington, D.C., firm specializing in employee
benefits.

If a plan doesn't meet those standards, however, employees must be given the
opportunity to decline those company plans, under the health law. They can shop
for coverage on the health insurance marketplaces and may qualify for premium
tax credits if their income is between 100 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level.

Those premium subsidies aren't available to workers whose employer offers good
coverage that meets the law's standards.

Not that many employers are expected to strong arm their workers into buying
health insurance. Those that do may be confused about their responsibilities
under the health law, mistakenly believing that in order to avoid penalties they
have to enroll their workers in coverage.

"That is just dead wrong," says Timothy Jost, a law professor at Washington and
Lee University who's an expert on the health law.

"Nothing in the Affordable Care Act directs employers to make their coverage
mandatory for employees," says a Treasury Department spokesperson. The law
requires large employers "to either offer coverage or pay a fee if their
full-time workers access tax credits to get coverage on their own in the
marketplace."

Employer penalties for not offering insurance that meets the health law's
standards can run up to $3,000 per employee.

For employers, forcing coverage on their workers could be counterproductive. "Do
you really want to limit employees' ability to select whether they get this
coverage?" says Amy Bergner, managing director at human resources consultant
PwC. "What impact does that have from talent management perspective?"

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             118 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday
                             Politifact.com Edition

ARTUR DAVIS SAYS THE HEALTH CARE LAW REQUIRES PEOPLE TO BUY INSURANCE "WHETHER
THEY CAN AFFORD IT OR NOT"

BYLINE: ANGIE DROBNIC HOLAN

SECTION: POLITIFACT

LENGTH: 732 words


The health care law imposes a federal mandate requiring middle-class Americans
to buy health insurance "whether they can afford it or not."

Artur Davis on Tuesday, August 28th, 2012 in a speech at the Republican National
Convention in Tampa

* * *

THE RULING: MOSTLY FALSE

Back in 2008, Artur Davis was a Democratic congressman from Alabama who
supported Barack Obama for president.

In 2012, he's a Republican supporting Mitt Romney who spoke at the Republican
National Convention in Tampa.

Davis used himself as an example to voters who've become disillusioned with
Obama.

"What a difference four years make," Davis said, lamenting Obama's first-term
record, including his signature health care law.

"And in terms of their crown jewel legislative achievement: Who knew that when
asked, 'Could government conceivably impose a federal mandate requiring
middle-class Americans to buy health insurance whether they can afford it or
not?' That the Obama answer would be 'Yes we can!' "

Here at PolitiFact, we've fact-checked the health care law many times. Davis'
comments struck us immediately as a misrepresentation.

The health care law does include a mandate for Americans to have insurance. But
it's not a mandate that applies whether people can "afford it or not."

Here's how it works: The mandate is a tax penalty assessed on people's income
tax returns. The tax won't affect anyone who has health insurance. The
uninsured, though, will be penalized if they remain uninsured. Supporters of
Obama's health law say the penalty is intended to prod them to get health
insurance, not punish them.

The law has provisions so that people with lower incomes can afford coverage.
The law expands Medicaid, an existing government health insurance program for
the very poor. And it gives tax credits to people of modest means to help them
buy their own insurance policies.

People who earn less than 400 percent of the poverty level are eligible for tax
credits that go to help them buy their own insurance. That works out to $44,680
for a single person or $92,200 for a family of four. Those income levels strike
us as middle class.

Contrary to the impression Davis gave, the law does make exceptions if people
can't afford insurance.

If people have to pay more than 8 percent of their earnings for a health
insurance policy (not counting their employers' contributions or the new tax
credits), they qualify for a hardship exemption. That means they would still be
uninsured, but the mandate would not apply to them.

Also, people are exempt from the mandate if they don't make enough money to have
to file a federal tax return. There are also exemptions for illegal immigrants,
prisoners, and people who have religious objections to health insurance.

The Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health care research group, explains
via a graphic how the mandate functions.

We should note that there are two tricky aspects to Davis' claim.

He says the "middle class" would have to buy insurance whether they could afford
it or not. There is no standard definition of the middle class. Certainly many
people who don't qualify for assistance under the health care law would consider
themselves middle class. And some of these same people might say that they can't
afford to spend 8 percent of their income on health insurance.

Still, Davis' remarks at the Republican National Convention make it sound like
the law is indifferent to issues of affordability. That's hardly the case.
People earning less than 400 percent of the federal poverty level would qualify
for tax credits to purchase insurance. And if a health insurance policy exceeded
8 percent of income, people would qualify for a hardship exemption under the
law. We rate Davis' claim Mostly False.

* * *

About this statement:

Published: Tuesday, August 28th, 2012 at 11:09 p.m.

Subjects: Health Care

Sources: Republican National Convention, remarks by Artur Davis, Aug. 28, 2012;
Biographical Directory of the United States, Artur Davis, accessed Aug. 28,
2012; Kaiser Health Family Foundation, How does the individual mandate work?,
accessed Aug. 28, 2012; Kaiser Family Foundation, Who will be eligible for
subsidies to make health insurance more affordable?, accessed Aug. 28, 2012;
HealthCare.gov, the Affordable Care Act, March 23, 2012; U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, 2012 HHS Poverty Guidelines

Researched by: Angie Drobnic Holan

Edited by: Bill Adair

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             119 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Plan for health law

LENGTH: 478 words


With the long-awaited U.S. Supreme Court decision on the federal health care law
behind us, Maine should resume laying the groundwork for the next step required
under the law: health insurance exchanges.


That, however, will require Gov. Paul LePage to put aside his aversion to the
new law and make sure Maine is ready to meet important deadlines.


The exchanges could provide a free-market solution to health care affordability
in Maine.


To be clear, Maine has a relatively low percentage of uninsured residents, about
14 percent of those between 19 and 64 in 2010, according to the Kaiser Family
Foundation.


In Texas, the rate for the same age bracket is 33 percent, while the U.S.
average is 22 percent.


Still, in Maine, that leaves well over 100,000 people between 19 and 64 without
health insurance.


Research shows that people without health insurance are 40 percent more likely
to die than those who have it. They wait longer to receive care, and medical
problems are more often detected when they are difficult or impossible to
successfully treat.


Even when life-threatening problems are detected, those without health insurance
are more likely to receive spotty or inconsistent care.


Estimates vary, but as many as 45,000 people die each year from problems that
would have been detected and successfully treated if they had health care
insurance.


The health insurance exchanges will provide a searchable marketplace for health
insurance.


Companies will compete to provide policies to individuals and small businesses.
Families with incomes between 133 percent and 400 percent of the federal poverty
level will receive federal income tax subsidies to make the insurance more
affordable.


But there is a deadline. By Nov. 16, states must tell the federal government
whether they plan to set up their own exchanges by Jan. 1, 2014.


If states decide not to set up exchanges, the federal government will set them
up for them.


Maine was well on the way to using federal grants to meet the exchange
requirements until Republicans came to power in Augusta.


Gov. Paul LePage stopped the preparatory work as the state's attorney general
joined other states asking the Supreme Court to declare the law
unconstitutional.


That effort failed last week when a majority of justices found the most
controversial provision of the law, a mandate to obtain health insurance,
constitutional.


Some states are now arguing that they will not plan for the new law hoping for
two results in the November elections: A Republican president and a Republican
majority.


With deadlines looming, Maine should proceed with planning rather than take that
gamble, especially since the federal government seems willing to invest even
more in the planning process.


Maine could then be ready with a coherent, workable plan that moves more Mainers
out of limbo and into a health insurance plan.


Sun Journal, Lewiston (July 3)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Bangor Daily News


                             120 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Plan for health law

LENGTH: 478 words


With the long-awaited U.S. Supreme Court decision on the federal health care law
behind us, Maine should resume laying the groundwork for the next step required
under the law: health insurance exchanges.


That, however, will require Gov. Paul LePage to put aside his aversion to the
new law and make sure Maine is ready to meet important deadlines.


The exchanges could provide a free-market solution to health care affordability
in Maine.


To be clear, Maine has a relatively low percentage of uninsured residents, about
14 percent of those between 19 and 64 in 2010, according to the Kaiser Family
Foundation.


In Texas, the rate for the same age bracket is 33 percent, while the U.S.
average is 22 percent.


Still, in Maine, that leaves well over 100,000 people between 19 and 64 without
health insurance.


Research shows that people without health insurance are 40 percent more likely
to die than those who have it. They wait longer to receive care, and medical
problems are more often detected when they are difficult or impossible to
successfully treat.


Even when life-threatening problems are detected, those without health insurance
are more likely to receive spotty or inconsistent care.


Estimates vary, but as many as 45,000 people die each year from problems that
would have been detected and successfully treated if they had health care
insurance.


The health insurance exchanges will provide a searchable marketplace for health
insurance.


Companies will compete to provide policies to individuals and small businesses.
Families with incomes between 133 percent and 400 percent of the federal poverty
level will receive federal income tax subsidies to make the insurance more
affordable.


But there is a deadline. By Nov. 16, states must tell the federal government
whether they plan to set up their own exchanges by Jan. 1, 2014.


If states decide not to set up exchanges, the federal government will set them
up for them.


Maine was well on the way to using federal grants to meet the exchange
requirements until Republicans came to power in Augusta.


Gov. Paul LePage stopped the preparatory work as the state's attorney general
joined other states asking the Supreme Court to declare the law
unconstitutional.


That effort failed last week when a majority of justices found the most
controversial provision of the law, a mandate to obtain health insurance,
constitutional.


Some states are now arguing that they will not plan for the new law hoping for
two results in the November elections: A Republican president and a Republican
majority.


With deadlines looming, Maine should proceed with planning rather than take that
gamble, especially since the federal government seems willing to invest even
more in the planning process.


Maine could then be ready with a coherent, workable plan that moves more Mainers
out of limbo and into a health insurance plan.


Sun Journal, Lewiston (July 3)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Bangor Daily News


                             121 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            February 15, 2010 Monday

Low-income citizens won't pay health insurance, says El-Gabali

LENGTH: 391 words


CAIRO: Minister of Health Hatem El-Gabali said that low-income citizens will be
a priority in the new health insurance draft law the ministry plans to propose
at the People's Assembly.

The objective of the law is to provide citizens with health care, El-Gabali told
the National Conference for Youth in Luxor, according to a press statement by
the ministry.

Low-income citizens will be highly considered and those who cannot afford to pay
health insurance will be exempt from the annual fees and will also be given the
medicine free of charge, he explained.

Pensioners will only be required to pay one third of the fee, he added.

The minister also announced at the meeting that starting May, the price of 40
locally produced medicines will be reduced.

The government set in motion plans to change Egypt's health insurance system
four years ago. From the outset, health activists warned that the plans - which
will require health insurance beneficiaries to pay a percentage cost of
treatment received in hospital as well as a percentage of the cost of medicines
- will render treatment under the health insurance system out of reach for many
Egyptians.

Last month, political parties and rights activists angrily rejected claims that
there is no public opposition to the draft health insurance law which was before
the People's Assembly at the time.

Member of the committee for the defense of the right to health, Mohamed Hassan
Khalil, told a press conference that in December 2009 the State Council also
issued a non-binding opinion in which it rejected the current draft law, citing
the unconstitutionality of 12 of its articles.

It wasn't the first time.

In September 2008, the government's plans received a setback when the State
Council's Administrative Court held that a prime ministerial decree which sought
to create a holding company for health care and transfer the ownership of all
health insurance clinics and hospitals to it was unconstitutional.

Khalil condemned the health minister's denial of the existence of popular
opposition to the draft law, as well as the failure of the government to make
public the numerous versions of the law that have been drafted since the last
one was published in a newspaper in June 2008.

Due to the strong criticism and opposition, the draft law was recalled and the
ministry is currently working on another one.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2010 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             122 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 19, 2010 Sunday

Removing part of health care law could hurt local hospitals

BYLINE: Patrick McCreless, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 984 words


Dec. 19--With the constitutionality of health care reform's health insurance
mandate in question, anticipated benefits of the law could collapse, harming
local hospitals along the way, according to an Anniston Star survey of hospital
administrators and statewide experts.

U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson in Virginia last Monday struck down the health
insurance requirement as unconstitutional, disagreeing with the government that
the Commerce Clause of the Constitution allows for the regulation of a person's
decision not to buy a product. The Commerce Clause grants Congress the power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among states.

The decision will not immediately affect the law because the insurance coverage
mandate will not be implemented until 2014. Also, Hudson and some law experts
have said the final decision on the coverage mandate will likely be up to the
Supreme Court.

If the Supreme Court upholds Hudson's decision, the rest of the health care
reform law would not last as it currently is written, said Michael Morrisey,
professor of health insurance and director of the Lister Hill Center for Health
Policy in the School of Public Health at the University of Alabama at
Birmingham.

"It's a major component," Morrisey said of the health insurance requirement.
"Without it, most of the rest of (the law) tends to collapse."

Part of the law requires insurance companies not to deny coverage to people with
pre-existing conditions. It also, in 2014, will provide government-funded health
insurance to 32 million poor and previously uninsured Americans.

However, said Morrisey, it will be next to impossible for these two goals to
succeed without more people buying health insurance to offset the cost of those
who cannot afford it and the cost of covering patients with pre-existing
conditions.

"Without any way of forcing people into the cash pool, only high-risk people
will be participating," Morrisey said. "Insurers will have no way to deny
coverage, so they will just opt out of the program."

Rosemary Blackmon, CEO of the Alabama Hospital Association, said the way the law
is written, without the mandate, hospitals could be burdened with higher costs
from uninsured patients.

"Currently, the health reform law calls for reductions in payments to hospitals
that care for the uninsured," Blackmon said. "If these reductions are
implemented without a corresponding increase in health insurance coverage,
hospitals could be faced with significant financial challenges."

Absorbing the costs

Last year, Stringfellow Memorial Hospital provided $25 million in uncompensated
care -- a financial challenge administrators would not like increased.

"From our perspective, to have more patients covered is a good thing," said John
Gallagher, CEO of Stringfellow.

Meanwhile, at Regional Medical Center, according to its budget, in fiscal 2010
the hospital wrote off $13.5 million for patients who were treated at the
hospital but were unable to pay, $34 million for patients who simply refused to
pay and $12.8 million for uninsured patients who agreed to pay a discounted rate
on their medical bills.

RMC has been in a financial crunch the last few years due to decreases in
revenue brought about by the weak economy and an increase in uninsured patients.

RMC CEO David McCormack said having more insured patients would help boost
hospital revenue and lower costs.

"If people have health insurance, they will get treatment when they need it and
not when it's acute, and, in the long run, that will reduce the cost of health
care," McCormack said.

Gallagher agreed with McCormack, saying that in theory, preventative medicine is
cheaper than the cost of major medical procedures.

Jacksonville Medical Center CEO Jim Edmondson said his hospital is smaller than
Stringfellow and RMC, but still provided around $9.2 million in uncompensated
care last year.

Though requiring more people to buy insurance would bring more revenue to his
hospital, Edmondson said Jacksonville Medical would benefit more from the
portion of the government plan that would cover those who cannot afford private
health care.

"I think that represents to our health care industry ... a bigger windfall than
people who have jobs and don't choose to purchase health care," Edmondson said.
"For the most part, it's not working people who don't have insurance; it's
people who can't afford health insurance."

The wheels of justice

Hudson is the first federal judge to strike down a key part of the health care
law. It has been upheld by two other federal judges. Also, several lawsuits have
been dismissed and others are pending, including one filed in Florida by Alabama
and 19 other states.

"I have no doubt that this will end up in the Supreme Court," said Brannon
Denning, professor of law at the Cumberland School of Law at Samford University.

Denning, who has written about the Commerce Clause, said there are plausible
arguments on both sides of the debate about the constitutionality of the
insurance mandate.

"Now that the bill is passed, insurance companies may never refuse people for
pre-existing conditions and it forces everyone to purchase insurance so
companies have enough money to cover everyone," he said. "The government is
saying all of that effectively impacts interstate commerce."

However, opponents say the mandate is unprecedented and would be an enormous
expansion of government power, Denning said.

"They say there has to be a line drawn somewhere," he said. "But we won't know
who is right until the Supreme Court tells us."

Star staff writer Patrick McCreless: 256-235-3561.

To see more of The Anniston Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.annistonstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Anniston Star, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101219-AO-Removing-part-of-health-care-law
-could-hurt-local-hospitals-1219-20101219

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2010 The Anniston Star


                             123 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                       October 4, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Health Insurance Reform Goes Retail in NC: New Store Opens for One-Stop Health
Insurance Shopping

LENGTH: 262  words


New Delhi, Oct. 4 -- Residents in the Asheville area who prefer to have a
face-to-face conversation with a real person when it comes to something as
personal as selecting a health insurance plan are in luck!



WNC Health Insurance, an authorized agency of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
North Carolina, is opening a new education and enrollment center in South
Asheville that will allow residents to simplify the health insurance shopping
experience.

The Grand opening for The Asheville Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina
Store is planned for Saturday, October 5, 2013 from 11am to 3pm.

Visitors to the new retail store will be able to get expert answers to questions
about Obamacare and the new Health Insurance Marketplace and received
personalized assistance in selecting the best health insurance plan to meet
their needs, all at no extra cost.

WNC Health Insurance staff will take the time to understand each individual's
budget and health insurance needs. They will walk with each person,
step-by-step, through the process of selecting an insurance plan. Individuals
will gain an understanding of which insurance subsidies and discounts they may
be eligible for under the new Healthcare Reform Law.

"With the new retail location, buying health insurance in Asheville, North
Carolina just got a whole lot easier" said Josh Williams, founder and president
of WNC Health Insurance.

WNC Health Insurance encourages every to drop by for a visit and checkout all
that the new WNC Health Insurance / The Asheville Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
North Carolina Store as to offer!

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             124 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday

State health care reform survey: Fewer uninsured

BYLINE: By Hillary Chabot, Eagle Boston Bureau

SECTION: TOP STORY; Headlines

LENGTH: 357 words


BOSTON -- A new law requiring Massachusetts residents to have their own health
insurance has slowly chipped away at the overall number of uninsured residents,
according to a state survey released yesterday.


For more information ...
To find out more about enrolling in the Commonwealth Connector for insurance,
call 1-877-MA-ENROLL (1-877-623-6765), or visit www.MAhealthconnector.org . The
Commonwealth Connector is the state's health insurance reform plan to reduce
the number of people who have no health insurance.
The number of people without coverage fell by 40,000 to 355,000 in the past
year, which is about 5.7 percent of the state population.

"This is a clear indication that health reform is succeeding," said Secretary of
Health and Human Services Judy Ann Bigby. "Even in our early phase of the law's
implementation, these findings confirm our success in reducing the number of
uninsured people across the entire Commonwealth."

The survey is the first evidence of how residents are reacting to the new law,
which requires everyone in the state to get health insurance or face tax
penalties starting in January 2008.

More than 10,000 polled

The survey, conducted by the Division of Health Care Finance and Policy and the
University of Massachusetts Boston, spoke with nearly 10,500 individuals and
more than 4,000 households starting in January 2007.

"We think the movement is certainly in the right direction. We are signing up
people far beyond our original projections," said Dick Powers, spokesman for the
Health Insurance Connector.

Waivers a possibility

The state has made significant efforts to reduce the number of uninsured through
its implementation of health care reform over the last year.

Subsidized health insurance such as expanded MassHealth, along with Commonwealth
Care and Commonwealth Choice, have made it easier for people to get affordable
insurance coverage.

Many residents who are currently uninsured are earning too much to receive state
subsidized care and have balked at the high price of the new mandatory
insurance.

Powers said the state will consider waivers in the first year for those who
can't afford the new law.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             125 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   Arab Times

                              June 22, 2014 Sunday

Health minister hails nod to citizens' health insurance bill

LENGTH: 341 words


KUWAIT CITY, June 22: Minister of Health Dr Ali Al-Obeidi is thrilled that
government and the National Assembly agreed on the citizens' health insurance
bill, affirming the executive regulation will be completed six months after the
law is published in the official gazette, and it will be activated one year
after issuance of the executive regulation.

As regards to health insurance law, Al-Obeidi said the law is yet to be endorsed
by the parliament. He pointed out that implementation of the law will pass
through several stages, starting with execution of the regulation, and then
bidding stage during which companies will present competitive bids for services,
and with focus on quality services.

He stressed the ministry's keenness to ensure the success of health insurance
scheme through serious monitoring and supervision, and with support from other
parties that will follow-up the implementation process. He indicated the law
enforces cooperation between the public and private sectors in providing ideal
health services to citizens, in a way that the private sector will be considered
as partner and not competitor in health delivery.

Meanwhile, the Assistant Undersecretary for Private Sector Affairs in Ministry
of Health Dr Muhammad Al-Khashti has said the ministry already received
proposals from 90 percent of the hospitals in private sector as to the kind of
services they can provide for citizens under the health insurance law. In a
statement, Dr Al-Khashti indicated the ministry earlier requested officials in
the public hospitals to refer specializations that need the support of the
ministry, noting the sector will endeavor to compare supply and demand for the
medical specialties which are available in the country and be informed about the
medical specialties that are covered overseas.

Dr Al-Khashti indicated the passing of health insurance law needs more time for
the completion of necessary legal procedures and the formation of committees to
monitor the level of quality medical services provided in the private sector.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1143


                 Copyright 2014 Arab Times Kuwait English Daily
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             126 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             June 4, 2014 Wednesday

Group Seeks Input To Improve Health Insurance Enrollment Under Affordable Care
Act

LENGTH: 326  words


Healthcare advocates lead by the Southwest Women's Law Center are looking for
ways to improve the healthcare enrollment process for the next enrollment period
slated to run from November 15, 2014 through  February 15, 2015.


The Southwest Women's Law Center is seeking feedback from all New Mexicans by
asking residents to complete a survey designed to capture the pros and cons of
the health insurance enrollment process.  The survey can be access through the
internet using the following web address:https://www.surveymonkey.com
/s/Nmconsumersurvey
The Law Center is also seeking input from those who needed health insurance, but
did not complete the enrollment process.   When asked about the barriers to
health insurance enrollment he witnessed, Erik Lujan, a certified healthcare
guide in New Mexico responded by stating, "Many people found the process
confusing and intimidating.  In addition, there was often misinformation
circulating about the enrollment process."   During the first enrollment period,
almost 33,000 people signed up for healthcare insurance through the New Mexico
Health Insurance Exchange (NMHIX).   Pamelya Herndon, Executive Director of the
Southwest Women's Law commented, "During the first enrollment period, we were
able to educate many New Mexicans about the enrollment process, and help them
sign up for the health insurance they needed.  We know we can help many more
people get enrolled once we find out what prevented them from either starting
the enrollment process or completing it."   The Southwest Women's Law Center
will use the survey feedback to provide recommendations to the New Mexico Health
Insurance Exchange on how to improve the enrollment process and get more
residents to sign up for health insurance coverage.  For more information,
contact staff attorney Paige Duhamel atpduhamel@swwomenslaw.org or by phone at
505-244-0502.
© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
(Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             127 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            January 31, 2014 Friday

Consider health insurance law's benefits, despite criticism

LENGTH: 537  words


MNsure is taking a beating. Republicans are licking their chops over making the
roll out of MNsure a way to vote out Democratic Gov. Mark Dayton.
James Noble, the state's legislative auditor, can't wait to dig into the numbers
to see if funds are being used correctly.


It's time to remember that MNsure is only a part of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Health Care Act (Obamacare), which has been the law of the land since
March 2010.
To put this in perspective, 84 percent of U.S. citizens already have health
insurance and are complying with the law.
So what is the Affordable Care Act, and why are we so concerned about it?
It is aimed to provide health insurance for 30 million uninsured citizens. The
Henry J. Kaiser Foundation estimates 462,000 Minnesotans are uninsured.
MNsure's health exchange is criticized because of computer problems with the
rollout. Despite this, it's estimated that 71,982 Minnesotans are in the process
of enrolling in qualified health plans, MinnesotaCare and Medical Assistance.
Since Minnesota has decided to expand Medicaid, it's estimated that 67 percent
of uninsured nonelderly people are eligible for coverage through Medicaid or the
market places.
Meanwhile, the law already has many benefits.
You can keep your youngsters on your health insurance until they are 26 years
old. Your health insurance company no longer can reject you or your children
because you have a pre-existing condition. Your health insurance company no
longer can cap your benefits.
Seniors should know that under this law, the donut hole is shrinking. Before the
Affordable Care Act, seniors paid 25 percent of the Medicare costs, with
Medicare paying 75 percent up to $2,800. Then, seniors had to pay 100 percent of
health care expenses up to $6,400 and 5 percent after that, with Medicare paying
95 percent.
Under the new law, seniors got a $250 rebate in 2010 and a 50 percent drug
company discount in 2011 and 2013. By 2020, seniors will pay 25 percent of their
Medicare costs.
Under this law, more people are eligible for health care paid by Medicaid.
Medicaid is made up of 57 percent federal and state funds to help poor people
pay their medical bills and live healthier lives. Much of it goes to care for
the elderly.
Through Jan. 4, a total of 28,401 additional Minnesotans who meet the less
restrictive guidelines, at 133 percent of the poverty level, had signed up for
Medicaid.
Now, what about that health exchange?
Under the law, people have to be enrolled by March 31 or face a penalty of $95
for an individual or 1 percent of total income, whichever is greater. And that's
only for the first year; the penalty fee will increase in subsequent years.

People can sign up for private insurance, Medicaid and MinnesotaCare. So far 38
percent have signed up for private insurance.
If you qualify, the federal government will help pay your costs of buying health
insurance through tax credits.
With all of the benefits already under the law, why is there so much criticism?

Not surprisingly, the nature of the media and the Republican Party is to
concentrate on the flaws.
Those who are benefiting aren't talking because their health insurance needs are
being met.© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             128 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                           September 27, 2015 Sunday

New health insurance law to cover all citizens

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 148  words


CAIRO, Sept 27 (Aswat Masriya)- Egypt's Health Ministry is finalizing a draft
law for a comprehensive health insurance system to cover all citizens, said
Health Minister Ahmed Emad al-Din Rady on Sunday.

The minister said that the new public health insurance system will benefit
around 10 million Egyptians who live in poverty, according to a survey by the
ministry of social solidarity.

He added that the state will bear the cost of the proposed healthcare system,
allocating three percent of Egypt's gross domestic product (GDP) to fund it,
Emad al-Din told state-run news agency MENA.

The current health insurance law, in effect since 1964, covers about 50 million
Egyptians, of whom only 10 million benefit from the service.

The World Bank had recommended that Egypt expand its health insurance coverage
to encompass all Egyptians, especially those who work in the informal sector, by
2030.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2015 Aswat Masriya
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             129 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                           January 10, 2008 Thursday

Exemption From National Health Insurance Plan

LENGTH: 251 words


Dear Paying Twice:

A revision to the enforcement decree of the National Health Insurance Law came
into effect a few months ago. The revision allows for foreigners and Korean
nationals that reside abroad to avoid paying into the National Health Insurance
Plan if they have alternative insurance coverage.

The insurance premiums, over the last few months, have drastically increased.
Employees and employers can feel a not insignificant savings by simply filing a
few documents with the National Health Insurance Corporation.

All good law firms in Seoul have notified their clients of this change, since in
many cases it can relieve a sizeable burden on companies and employees.

Prior to the amendment many foreigners working for companies in Korea contracted
for private insurance plans that covered more than the government insurance
plans, thus, many would forgo use of the government insurance plan, but still
would be required to pay into the National Health Insurance plan.

To alleviate this burden and also the burden on Korean nationals that reside
abroad the revision was made.

To avail of this exemption from payments your employer may simply file with the
National Health Insurance Corporation a statement signed by the employee that he
or she wishes to withdraw from the health insurance plan and include with the
documents information related to your health insurance plan.

For contact information for the local office of the National Health Insurance
Corporation please visit: http://www.nhic.or.kr/eng/

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             130 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 July 28, 2005

Bupa succeeds in preventing VHI representation at case

BYLINE: Barry O'Halloran

SECTION: Finance; Other Stories; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 313 words


Health insurer Bupa yesterday has succeeded in preventing the VHI from being
represented at its legal challenge to the law that allowed a State agency to
recommend that it make risk equalisation payments to is main rival.

Bupa intends taking a constitutional challenge in the High Court to section 12
of the Health Insurance Act. It also claims that it breaches an EU directive.

The act allows the Minister for Health, Mary Harney, to introduce risk
equalisation payments in the health insurance market.

This is a system whereby profits from young, profitable health insurance
subscribers are used to offset losses from older customers, who are more likely
to claim their insurance.

It is intended to underpin community rating, which guarantees that health
insurance companies charge all of their customers the same for the same level of
insurance, no matter what their level of risk.

Bupa has claimed that the introduction of risk equalisation could lead to it
paying over EUR 30 million annually to VHI, and has threatened to leave the
Irish market if it is introduced.

VHI successfully sought to have itself included as a notice party to the action,
which was originally against the State and the Health Insurance Authority (HIA).

Individuals or organisations can seek to be included as notice parties where
they believe the proceedings will affect their material interests.

However, Bupa opposed this on the grounds that Tanaiste and Minister for Health,
Mary Harney, last month said that she would not introduce risk equalisation for
the time being.

This meant that Bupa was not at an immediate risk of having to pay the VHI.

Yesterday, Mr Justice Peart in the High Court ruled that VHI should not be a
notice party to the case, which is expected to go ahead in the autumn.

The VHI may decide to appeal this, a spokeswoman said last night.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2005 The Irish Times


                             131 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   March 11, 1999, Thursday, JOURNAL EDITION

With health care, tamper carefully

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 605 words


GOV. ROY BARNES' major health care bills swept through the General Assembly this
week without a whimper, a debate or much opposition. When government seizes
control of a competitive industry by dictating products and prices, and not a
soul rises to oppose it, we're left wondering if the consequences have been
fully considered.

Will consumers end up paying more for health care? Will others lose coverage?
The marketplace will tell.

Overall, Barnes' health care reform bills have been tempered by compromise, but
their implementation has been less than ideal. An exemption in the governor's
bill to create a consumer advocate, for instance, weakens the measure and ought
to be removed.

Barnes' idea in creating the office was to give people more clout with all
insurance providers, property and casualty. But the Senate approved an exemption
for Georgia-based insurers who offer supplemental insurance policies, mostly to
older folks on Medicare. The exemption is aimed at leaving the giant AFLAC out
of the proposed consumer watchdog loop. But seniors are the ones most often
duped or mistreated by insurance companies. And though the governor claims it's
not a factor, AFLAC was a major campaign contributor.

The House ought to kill the AFLAC exemption and pass the bill.

A second prong of Barnes' proposals, a bill that allows Georgians to sue their
managed care companies, passed the House unanimously this week. The bill is
tempered by a prohibition on punitive damages and an external review that must
be ex- hausted before filing suit against an HMO. Business lobbyists were up in
arms over the definition of "medical necessity." They wanted language, the
import of which is appreciated only by expert lawyers, that ensured "medical
necessity" was more than just what a doctor said it was.

A compromise was broached on that point, and, like the consumer advocate piece,
we do not consider the liability portion of health care reform terribly onerous.
It is armed with enough safeguards to keep trial lawyers gunning for HMOs' deep
pockets at bay.

But most alarming was the Senate's dearth of debate on the doctor choice bill.
The General Assembly is mandating a product and setting a price ---
out-of-network health care at premium increases of no more than 17.5 percent.
When did part-time legislators who are farmers, teachers and lawyers become so
knowledgeable about health care that they could mandate products and set prices?

And what will be the upshot of their micromanagement? Consumers, possibly even
those who don't choose outside doctors, will face higher prices. Consumers'
deductibles could increase, and HMOs now covering 100 percent of health care
costs may reduce their coverage to 90 percent or less.

One result of this legislation could be less health coverage at a higher cost.
But far worse is the precedent the bill sets for government regulation of a
competitive industry.

We have commented admiringly of Barnes' mastery of the legislative process this
session. His tendency to negotiate personally with opponents and interest
groups, revising the language of regulation as legislation moves through the
General Assembly, is efficient, and that's good.

The downside, however, is that the debate that customarily occurs in public is
moved into the governor's office. By the time a bill hits the floor, as we saw
this week, there's no serious opposition and no real debate. The public must
take it on faith that all of the possible ramifications have been considered.
Efficient, as we said, but it does leave the public confused about what's being
done --- and why.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Final

GRAPHIC: Photo :
 Capitol Dome

                    Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution


                             132 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday

Dubai insurers 'must provide basic health cover'

LENGTH: 462  words


The Dubai Health Authority (DHA) said on Tuesday that residents should lodge a
complaint if any insurance company refuses to provide basic health coverage.
"It is important that they bring it to the attention of the regulator," said Dr
Haidar Al Yousuf, Director of Health Funding at the DHA, in a statement to Gulf
News.


The director responded to a complaint by a Gulf News reader that insurance
companies had refused him cover in the basic Dh600 package, as he was a single
person applying for health insurance.
When Gulf News called a couple of insurance companies, representatives said it
was not economical for the companies to offer the basic package to individuals.
"We are offering cover [in the basic package] to groups of individuals totalling
1,000," one representative said.
The reader had said in a letter he did not know whom to turn to for help. "I
really need the health insurance to feel secure in this country. Please help,"
he said.
Dr Al Yousuf said that after a rigorous evaluation process, seven companies
qualified as Participatory Insurers (PI) in Dubai's mandatory health insurance
scheme. They will offer cover to employees of organisations and to individuals
with a salary of Dh4,000 and below
"The premium for this service ranges between Dh600 to Dh700. The assessment for
PI applications took into account the efficiency of their operational structures
to ensure they are able to offer such products in volume, albeit at low
margins," he said.
He pointed out that Dubai Health Insurance Law 11 of 2013 clearly states that no
insurer can refuse coverage to any person who applies for insurance, no matter
when they apply.
The director said that employers and sponsors are mandated to provide health
insurance to all within their umbrella.
A phased time-line has been set by DHA to ensure that employers are fully
prepared and ready to implement the scheme seamlessly, in accordance with the
law. However, an individual may apply and buy health insurance earlier than the
stipulated deadline for their respective group, he said.
An estimated 1.2 million of Dubai's population already have health insurance
coverage, and an estimated two million people will be covered over the next two
years, he said.
"In time, we anticipate that the growth in demand for health insurance services
will lead to a competitive market allowing for a wider choice of options for the
community," said the director.
He noted that health insurance is a regulated market and strict enforcement is
applied to ensure that no one is refused coverage, and that all parties involved
in health insurance activities are compliant with the standards and practices
stated in the Health Insurance Law.

© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
(Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             133 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           January 23, 2014 Thursday

InsureXSolutions Private Exchange Helping Tax Preparers, Offering Valuable
Resources About New Health Insurance Laws

LENGTH: 384  words


The InsureXSolutions® private insurance exchange today announced it is lending a
helping hand this tax season to independent Certified Public Accountants (CPAs)
and tax preparers in need of information about the Affordable Care Act (ACA).


According to the new law, Americans who don't purchase health insurance by March
31, 2014 will be subject to a hefty government tax penalty. The health law calls
for practically every individual in the U.S. to have some type of health
insurance by the deadline, or pay the price. InsureXSolutions offers free health
law resources at www.shopgetcovered.com , where CPAs can guide their clients
during the busy tax season. The site provides a wide range of support tools and
expert advice to help both individuals and small- to-medium-sized businesses
find personalized health insurance options. "By offering this support, we hope
to provide knowledge and valuable resources to CPAs regarding our country's new
healthcare laws," said John DiVito, President of Flexible Benefit Service
Corporation (Flex), who operates and offers InsureXSolutions. "The last thing
tax preparers want to do is try to act as health law experts. Let us be that
resource and let them focus on what they do best - taxes. The ultimate goal is
to make the purchase of health insurance a relatively seamless part of filing
your tax return." For many individuals, especially those eligible for premium
assistance, the tax-filing season is "an ideal time to shop and enroll,"
especially with the March 31 deadline looming, and tax preparers are a great
resource to connect people to plan options, DiVito said.Tax preparers who have
clients in need of support can find answers to important questions related to
the new healthcare laws. In addition, they will also be able to:
Compare health plans from the nation's leading carriers, side-by-side.Estimate
out-of-pocket costs with personalized decision support tools.Receive
recommendations from professionals for plan options based on individual needs.
According to the new law, a family that fails to get insurance will have to pay
$95 per adult and $47.50 per child or 1 percent of their annual income-whichever
is greater. This will climb to $695 per adult and $347.50 per child or 2.5
percent of family income in 2016.© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             134 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday

File complaint if health cover refused:DHA

BYLINE: Mahmood Saberi Senior Reporter

LENGTH: 470 words


Dubai: The Dubai Health Authority (DHA) said yesterday that residents should
lodge a complaint if any insurance company refuses to provide basic health
coverage.

"It is important that they bring it to the attention of the regulator," said Dr
Haidar Al Yousuf, Director of Health Funding at the DHA, in a statement to Gulf
News.

The director responded to a complaint by a Gulf News reader that insurance
companies had refused him cover in the basic Dh600 package, as he was a single
person applying for health insurance.

When Gulf News called a couple of insurance companies, representatives said it
was not economical for the companies to offer the basic package to individuals.
"We are offering cover [in the basic package] to groups of individuals totalling
1,000," one representative said.

The reader had said in a letter he did not know whom to turn to for help. "I
really need the health insurance to feel secure in this country. Please help,"
he said.

Dr Al Yousuf said that after a rigorous evaluation process, seven companies
qualified as Participatory Insurers (PI) in Dubai's mandatory health insurance
scheme. They will offer cover to employees of organisations and to individuals
with a salary of Dh4,000 and below.

"The premium for this service ranges between Dh600 to Dh700. The assessment for
PI applications took into account the efficiency  of their operational
structures to ensure they are able to offer such products in volume, albeit at
low margins," he said.

He pointed out that Dubai Health Insurance Law 11 of 2013 clearly states that no
insurer can refuse coverage to any person who applies for insurance, no matter
when they apply.

The director said that employers and sponsors are mandated to provide health
insurance to all within their umbrella.

A phased time-line has been set by DHA to ensure that employers are fully
prepared and ready to implement the scheme seamlessly, in accordance with the
law. However, an individual may apply and buy health insurance earlier than the
stipulated deadline for their respective group, he said.

An estimated 1.2 million of Dubai's population already have health insurance
coverage, and an estimated two million people will be covered over the next two
years, he said.

"In time, we anticipate that the growth in demand for health insurance services
will lead to a competitive market allowing for a wider choice of options for the
community," said the director.

He noted that health insurance is a regulated market  and strict enforcement is
applied to ensure that no one is refused coverage, and that all parties involved
in health insurance activities are compliant with the standards and practices
stated in the Health Insurance Law.

Residents can file complaints at www.dha.ae or http://www.isahd.ae/Home/Contact.

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2014 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             135 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Don Heinzman Column: Consider health insurance law's benefits, despite criticism

LENGTH: 539  words


MNsure is taking a beating. Republicans are licking their chops over making the
roll out of MNsure a way to vote out Democratic Gov. Mark Dayton.
James Noble, the state's legislative auditor, can't wait to dig into the numbers
to see if funds are being used correctly.


It's time to remember that MNsure is only a part of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Health Care Act (Obamacare), which has been the law of the land since
March 2010.
To put this in perspective, 84 percent of U.S. citizens already have health
insurance and are complying with the law.
So what is the Affordable Care Act, and why are we so concerned about it?
It is aimed to provide health insurance for 30 million uninsured citizens. The
Henry J. Kaiser Foundation estimates 462,000 Minnesotans are uninsured.
MNsure's health exchange is criticized because of computer problems with the
rollout. Despite this, it's estimated that 71,982 Minnesotans are in the process
of enrolling in qualified health plans, MinnesotaCare and Medical Assistance.
Since Minnesota has decided to expand Medicaid, it's estimated that 67 percent
of uninsured nonelderly people are eligible for coverage through Medicaid or the
market places.
Meanwhile, the law already has many benefits.
You can keep your youngsters on your health insurance until they are 26 years
old. Your health insurance company no longer can reject you or your children
because you have a pre-existing condition. Your health insurance company no
longer can cap your benefits.
Seniors should know that under this law, the donut hole is shrinking. Before the
Affordable Care Act, seniors paid 25 percent of the Medicare costs, with
Medicare paying 75 percent up to $2,800. Then, seniors had to pay 100 percent of
health care expenses up to $6,400 and 5 percent after that, with Medicare paying
95 percent.
Under the new law, seniors got a $250 rebate in 2010 and a 50 percent drug
company discount in 2011 and 2013. By 2020, seniors will pay 25 percent of their
Medicare costs.
Under this law, more people are eligible for health care paid by Medicaid.
Medicaid is made up of 57 percent federal and state funds to help poor people
pay their medical bills and live healthier lives. Much of it goes to care for
the elderly.
Through Jan. 4, a total of 28,401 additional Minnesotans who meet the less
restrictive guidelines, at 133 percent of the poverty level, had signed up for
Medicaid.
Now, what about that health exchange?
Under the law, people have to be enrolled by March 31 or face a penalty of $95
for an individual or 1 percent of total income, whichever is greater. And that's
only for the first year; the penalty fee will increase in subsequent years.

People can sign up for private insurance, Medicaid and MinnesotaCare. So far 38
percent have signed up for private insurance.
If you qualify, the federal government will help pay your costs of buying health
insurance through tax credits.
With all of the benefits already under the law, why is there so much criticism?

Not surprisingly, the nature of the media and the Republican Party is to
concentrate on the flaws.
Those who are benefiting aren't talking because their health insurance needs are
being met.
Stay tuned.© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             136 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Sun (Lowell, Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday

Survey: New health-care law lowers number of uninsured

BYLINE: Hillary Chabot, The Sun, Lowell, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words


Aug. 28--BOSTON -- A new law mandating Bay State residents to have their own
health insurance has slowly chipped away at the overall number of uninsured
residents, according to a state survey released yesterday.

The number of people without coverage fell from 395,000 to 355,000, in the past
year, which is about 5.7 percent of the state population.

"This is a clear indication that health reform is succeeding," said Secretary of
Health and Human Services Judy Ann Bigby. "Even in our early phase of the law's
implementation, these findings confirm our success in reducing the number of
uninsured people across the entire Commonwealth."

The survey is the first evidence of how residents are reacting to the new law,
which requires everyone in the state to get health insurance or face tax
penalties.

The survey, conducted by the Division of Health Care and Policy and UMass
Boston, spoke with nearly 10,500 individuals and more than 4,000 households.

"We think the movement is certainly in the right direction. We are signing

up people far beyond our original projections," said Dick Powers, spokesman for
the Health Insurance Connector.

The state has made significant efforts to reduce the number of uninsured through
its implementation of health-care reform during the past year. Subsidized health
insurance, such as expanded MassHealth, along with Commonwealth Care and
Commonwealth Choice, have made it easier for people to get affordable insurance
coverage.

Many residents who earn too much to receive state subsidized care have balked at
the high price of the new mandatory insurance. Powers said the state will
consider waivers in the first year for those who can't afford the new law.

To see more of The Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.lowellsun.com. Copyright (c) 2007, The Sun, Lowell, Mass. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070828-LZ-Survey-New-health-care-law-lowers-number-of-uninsured-0828

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LZ


                             Copyright 2007 The Sun


                             137 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday

Rep. Waxman Releases Top Ten List of Republican Efforts to Undermine and
Obstruct the Affordable Care Act

LENGTH: 407  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of the House of Representative Henry A Waxman, U.S Government has issued
the following news release:

On the day before Republicans cast their 40th vote to repeal key protections
against insurance company abuses in the Affordable Care Act, Ranking Member
Henry A. Waxman released a memorandum prepared by Democratic Committee staff
listing ten ways Republicans have undermined and obstructed implementation of
the law.

The memo finds that Republican leaders at the state and federal levels have
acted in an unprecedented fashion to undermine the Affordable Care Act.
Nonpartisan analysts have accused Republicans of trying to "sabotage" the law.

"The law has become the Republicans' great white whale.  They will stop at
nothing to kill it," said Rep. Waxman.  "Republican leaders' obstructionist
policies will prevent millions of their poorest constituents from receiving
health insurance coverage."

Republican leaders have acted to undermine the Affordable Care Act by:

Casting 40 votes to repeal the law, futile efforts that have done nothing but
create uncertainty and confusion in the mind of the public about the law's
implementation.
    Refusing to expand Medicaid coverage in over 20 states, preventing millions
of Americans from receiving health insurance coverage.
    Refusing to establish state-based health insurance marketplaces,
complicating HHS efforts to implement the law and "increas[ing] federal
involvement in ... state affairs."
    Undermining enrollment in health insurance marketplaces via a
multimillion-dollar campaign to "dissuade uninsured Americans from obtaining
health coverage."
    Refusing to provide funding requested by the Obama Administration to
implement the law.
    Attacking efforts to educate the public about the Affordable Care Act.
    Intimidating potential participants in public education efforts about the
law.
    Insisting that the Affordable Care Act be defunded as a condition of
preventing a government shutdown.
    Threatening to deny basic, Affordable Care Act-related constituent service
requests from citizens who request help with understanding or signing up for
health insurance benefits under the law.
    Misinforming citizens about the impact of health care reform on insurance
premiums, leading many to believe that premiums will skyrocket by failing to
provide accurate assessments of the true costs in 2014.

For further information please visit: http://waxman.house.gov

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             138 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily News of Newburyport (Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday

Town to bargain again over health insurance

BYLINE: Bruno Matarazzo Jr., The Daily News of Newburyport, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 391 words


March 13--AMESBURY -- Members of the town's insurance advisory committee and the
mayor will sit down once again and have a discussion that's become a trend:
making changes to their health insurance plan.

But this year could have big consequences, as a new law that went into effect
last year makes it possible for cities and towns to join the state's health
plan, known as the GIC.

"One of the positions I've taken," Mayor Thatcher Kezer said. "Before I file to
accept the new law, I want to sit down with the unions and the retirees and have
discussions with them first. The ideal, I'd like to achieve changes to the
existing plans before we look to go through the process."

Making changes to the town's health insurance requires the approval of all the
unions.

Last summer, the unions agreed to changes in their health insurance that went
into effect Nov. 1.

The changes meant that the town went from a single health-care plan with one
co-pay across the board to a three-tiered plan where co-pays and deductibles
depend on which facility is visited.

The savings ranged between $250,000 and $300,00.

In 2009, the unions agreed to increase co-pays from $5 to $10, saving $300,000.

The changes made by Amesbury provided a somewhat unlikely scenario: Premiums are
expected to remain flat.

Kezer said the new municipal health insurance reform law puts "a lot of pressure
on all the carriers to remain competitive."

Geoffrey Beckwith, executive director of the Massachusetts Municipal
Association, said plan design changes are how communities are able to provide
health insurance at a reasonable cost.

"The new law allows communities to make (municipal employee health insurance)
design changes up to what's in the state's plan," Beckwith said.

One problem Kezer sees with going with the state's plan is that town employees
who live in New Hampshire or receive care in New Hampshire can't continue
receiving care there.

"This will force those employees toward more expensive plans," Kezer said.

Having employees and retirees start receiving care in Massachusetts affects any
savings the town may see.

"That's why my desire is to negotiate savings from the existing plans," Kezer
said.

___ (c)2012 The Daily News of Newburyport (Newburyport, Mass.) Visit The Daily
News of Newburyport (Newburyport, Mass.) at www.newburyportnews.com Distributed
by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120313-ZN-Town-to-bargain-again-over-health-insurance-0313-20120313

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZN


                  Copyright 2012 The Daily News of Newburyport


                             139 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday

Daniel Zingale: Health care reform already is helping millions

BYLINE: By Daniel Zingale Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 643 words


Next year the Supreme Court will consider whether or not to uphold portions of
the new Affordable Care Act. But while we will have to wait to see the court
wrestle with its legal questions, we don't have to wait at all to assess the
law's effectiveness. This year, about 2.5 million more young adults ages 19 to
25 are insured.

This is a remarkable number of people receiving health care they wouldn't have
had otherwise. How did it happen? Before the act, insurance companies could take
young adults off their parents' health insurance once they either turned 19 or
graduated from college. But as of Sept. 23, 2010, insurance companies are
required to allow young adults to stay on their parents' health insurance until
they are 26.

To know how effective the Affordable Care Act has already been, all that is
needed is to look at that one number: 2.5 million. That many young adults would
have been removed from their health insurance before the new health care law
took effect.

Of course, the challenge of helping the uninsured goes beyond young adults. Many
California residents are in need of health insurance. Today, about 6.9 million
are classified as uninsured. Compared to all other states, California has the
highest number of uninsured. That number will likely increase as
employer-sponsored coverage decreases.

As additional pieces of the law are implemented, it will secure the health
coverage of more and more people. Nearly 4.7 million California residents likely
will be eligible for Medi-Cal or subsidized private insurance through the health
care exchange when the health care law is fully in effect.

So if the Affordable Care Act is having a real effect on so many lives, why
would we want to change it?

That's why The California Endowment has filed an amicus brief at the Supreme
Court in support of the act. We think it is part of the solution to creating
access to affordable, quality health care. In addition, we don't think any court
should get in between the residents of California and the health care they need
and deserve.

The brief we filed with the Supreme Court made two simple yet profound
arguments.

First, we reject the contention that the requirement to buy health insurance
violates the constitution. On the contrary, Congress has long been authorized to
regulate commerce. And uninsured Californians are more likely than insured
Californians to use expensive hospital emergency rooms for routine care and to
go without care due to cost. The rest of us bear the cost through higher
premiums and through taxes. Clearly, purchasing health insurance is a commerce
issue.

Second, we reject the contention that the act can work as effectively without
the minimum coverage requirement. The whole purpose of the law is to reduce
costs by increasing the pool of health insurance participants. If the
requirement to purchase insurance is removed, an important part of the law falls
apart. And that, we believe, is exactly what the opponents of this law want.

At the California Endowment, we don't have time to play politics. We are too
busy trying to improve communities and lives. We think the Affordable Care Act
does just that. It helps people get access to health care they don't have now
and wouldn't have in the future without this new law. It is good medicine for
our state and our future.

Daniel Zingale is senior vice president of the California Endowment, a private
health foundation that filed an amicus brief to the U.S. Supreme Court
highlighting facts and statistics relevant to the Affordable Care Act's
implementation. He wrote this for this newspaper.

Daniel Zingale is senior vice president of the California Endowment, a private
health foundation that filed an amicus brief to the United States Supreme Court
highlighting facts and statistics relevant to the Affordable Care Act's
implementation. He wrote this for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             140 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Dental coalition urges health insurance antitrust enforcement

LENGTH: 434  words

DATELINE: Chicago


American Dental Associations has issued the following news release:

Twelve dental professional organizations urged Congress Feb. 5 to authorize
"greater federal antitrust enforcement" against health insurance companies
engaged in anticompetitive conduct.

The Organized Dentistry Coalition member organizations offered their "strong
support" for legislation introduced by dentist Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., to
apply federal antitrust laws to "the business of health insurance to protect
competition and consumers."

"H.R. 494 would amend the McCarran-Ferguson law and authorize the Federal Trade
Commission and the Justice Department to enforce the federal antitrust laws
against health insurance companies engaged in anticompetitive conduct," the
coalition told the House Judiciary Committee, which has legislative
jurisdiction. "It would not interfere with the states' ability to maintain and
enforce their own insurance regulations, antitrust statutes and consumer
protection laws. Because states vary in their enforcement efforts, the impact of
the amendment on health insurance companies would differ from state to state,"
the letter said.

"The bill is narrowly drawn to apply only to the business of health insurance,
including dental insurance, and would not affect the business of life insurance,
property or casualty insurance and many similar insurance areas. Passage of H.R.
494 would help interject more competition into the insurance marketplace by
authorizing greater federal antitrust enforcement in instances where state
regulators fail to act. When competition is not robust, consumers are more
likely to face higher prices and less likely to benefit from innovation and
variety in the marketplace.

"On behalf of our member dentists and their patients, we urge you to cosponsor
H.R. 494, The Competitive Health lnsurance Reform Act." Initial cosponsors
included dentist Rep. Brian Babin of Texas, 16 other Republicans and Rep. Lloyd
Doggett, D-Texas.

Coalition members on the letter to Congress include the American Dental
Association, Academy of General Dentistry, American Academy of Oral and
Maxillofacial Pathology, American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry, American
Academy of Periodontology, American Association of Endodontists, American
Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons, American Association of
Orthodontists, American Association of Women Dentists, American College of
Prosthodontists, American Society of Dental Anesthesiologists and National
Dental Association.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             141 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           November 6, 2013 Wednesday

Thousands in New Mexico allowed to keep, extend health policies

LENGTH: 828  words


Thousands of New Mexico residents with existing health insurance plans that
don't meet the new federal health insurance law won't have to get new policies,
at least not immediately.
Some can get an extension until Dec. 31, 2014, and some can stay on their
current health insurance plans indefinitely if the company doesn't make any
changes to the policies.


Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico, for example, has 17,000 members who had
health insurance policies in place before the federal Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act became law on March 23, 2010. About 3,000 of those members
live in Santa Fe County, according to Becky Kinney, spokeswoman for Blue Cross
Blue Shield of New Mexico. Those existing plans were "grandfathered" in and
don't have to meet the new federal law requirements.
"If these members choose not to make any change to their policy, they may keep
these indefinitely," Kinney said.
Those plan-holders will see their rates increase 10.2 percent next year. Those
members with grandfathered plans also can choose to get a new health insurance
plan directly through an insurance company or through the federal health
insurance exchange website.
Another 11,000 Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico health insurance
policyholders, most of them self-insured through the individual market, don't
have plans that are "grandfathered" in. They will have to purchase new policies
through Blue Cross Blue Shield or the health exchange because their existing
plans have to be terminated or changed to meet the new federal health care law,
according to Kinney.
Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico worked out a deal with the state Office of
Superintendent of Insurance to give those policyholders extra time to buy new
health insurance. Individuals with "non-grandfathered" plans can renew their
existing policies by Dec. 1. Their policies will be good then until Nov. 30,
2014, Kinney said. After that, they will have to select a health insurance plan
that complies with the Affordable Care Act.
Janice Torrez, vice president of external affairs for Blue Cross Blue Shield of
New Mexico, said the company "wanted to give clients the greatest amount of time
to decide whether they wanted to stay with their plans or get into the federal
health insurance exchange."
People who keep their non-grandfathered health insurance plans for another year
will see a 9.2 percent increase beginning Jan. 1, 2014.
Lovelace Health System also asked for extensions through next year for
policyholders on some of its existing individual plans, according to state
Insurance Superintendent John Franchini. "It gave people on individual plans
more time to select a new one," Franchini said.

Many New Mexicans with individual policies through Presbyterian Healthcare
Services have received notices that their policies will be canceled because the
plans don't comply with the new federal health law. Presbyterian didn't ask for
an extension from the state because they didn't think they would need to,
Franchini said. The company thought the federal health insurance exchange would
be working by now.
Aaron Ezekiel, who is managing the health insurance exchange for the Office of
Superintendent of Insurance, said insurance companies could grandfather in plans
that didn't comply with the Affordable Care Act, as long as they made no changes
to those policies. "We've allowed companies to extend their expiration date,"
Ezekiel said. "If they had plans that were going to expire in April, they could
extend the plan until Dec. 31, 2014. But they had to apply for the extension."
He said the grandfathered policies are typically "closed block," meaning no new
members are accepted to the plan.
"Older plans have all kinds of limitations, particularly in the individual
market," he said.
Ezekiel said it doesn't make sense for insurance companies to try to make older,
closed-block plans comply with the new federal health care law. "Closed-block
plans with mostly older and sicker members adds a whole lot more liability," he
said. "If a whole group is age 60-65 and they are getting sick, you are not
doing them a favor to keep on an old plan. Under the federal exchange, they may
qualify for a subsidy. But switching plans never makes people happy."
After age 65, people qualify for Medicare and don't have to get individual
health insurance.
New Mexico Health Connections, Molina Healthcare, Presbyterian, Lovelace and
Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico are all offering health insurance plans
through the federal health care exchange. Each company website offers more
information.
People with questions or concerns about the state or federal health insurance
exchange can call Ashley Hernandez, ombudsman with the state Office of the
Superintendent of Insurance, at 855-857-0972 or 827-4465.
"Ashley's job is to know where people should fit," Ezekiel said. "They can call
her anytime. We will try to pick up the ball and run with it for folks running
into these issues."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             142 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday

Thousands in N.M. allowed to keep, extend health policies

LENGTH: 828  words


Thousands of New Mexico residents with existing health insurance plans that
don't meet the new federal health insurance law won't have to get new policies,
at least not immediately.
Some can get an extension until Dec. 31, 2014, and some can stay on their
current health insurance plans indefinitely if the company doesn't make any
changes to the policies.


Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico, for example, has 17,000 members who had
health insurance policies in place before the federal Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act became law on March 23, 2010. About 3,000 of those members
live in Santa Fe County, according to Becky Kinney, spokeswoman for Blue Cross
Blue Shield of New Mexico. Those existing plans were "grandfathered" in and
don't have to meet the new federal law requirements.
"If these members choose not to make any change to their policy, they may keep
these indefinitely," Kinney said.
Those plan-holders will see their rates increase 10.2 percent next year. Those
members with grandfathered plans also can choose to get a new health insurance
plan directly through an insurance company or through the federal health
insurance exchange website.
Another 11,000 Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico health insurance
policyholders, most of them self-insured through the individual market, don't
have plans that are "grandfathered" in. They will have to purchase new policies
through Blue Cross Blue Shield or the health exchange because their existing
plans have to be terminated or changed to meet the new federal health care law,
according to Kinney.
Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico worked out a deal with the state Office of
Superintendent of Insurance to give those policyholders extra time to buy new
health insurance. Individuals with "non-grandfathered" plans can renew their
existing policies by Dec. 1. Their policies will be good then until Nov. 30,
2014, Kinney said. After that, they will have to select a health insurance plan
that complies with the Affordable Care Act.
Janice Torrez, vice president of external affairs for Blue Cross Blue Shield of
New Mexico, said the company "wanted to give clients the greatest amount of time
to decide whether they wanted to stay with their plans or get into the federal
health insurance exchange."
People who keep their non-grandfathered health insurance plans for another year
will see a 9.2 percent increase beginning Jan. 1, 2014.
Lovelace Health System also asked for extensions through next year for
policyholders on some of its existing individual plans, according to state
Insurance Superintendent John Franchini. "It gave people on individual plans
more time to select a new one," Franchini said.

Many New Mexicans with individual policies through Presbyterian Healthcare
Services have received notices that their policies will be canceled because the
plans don't comply with the new federal health law. Presbyterian didn't ask for
an extension from the state because they didn't think they would need to,
Franchini said. The company thought the federal health insurance exchange would
be working by now.
Aaron Ezekiel, who is managing the health insurance exchange for the Office of
Superintendent of Insurance, said insurance companies could grandfather in plans
that didn't comply with the Affordable Care Act, as long as they made no changes
to those policies. "We've allowed companies to extend their expiration date,"
Ezekiel said. "If they had plans that were going to expire in April, they could
extend the plan until Dec. 31, 2014. But they had to apply for the extension."
He said the grandfathered policies are typically "closed block," meaning no new
members are accepted to the plan.
"Older plans have all kinds of limitations, particularly in the individual
market," he said.
Ezekiel said it doesn't make sense for insurance companies to try to make older,
closed-block plans comply with the new federal health care law. "Closed-block
plans with mostly older and sicker members adds a whole lot more liability," he
said. "If a whole group is age 60-65 and they are getting sick, you are not
doing them a favor to keep on an old plan. Under the federal exchange, they may
qualify for a subsidy. But switching plans never makes people happy."
After age 65, people qualify for Medicare and don't have to get individual
health insurance.
New Mexico Health Connections, Molina Healthcare, Presbyterian, Lovelace and
Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico are all offering health insurance plans
through the federal health care exchange. Each company website offers more
information.
People with questions or concerns about the state or federal health insurance
exchange can call Ashley Hernandez, ombudsman with the state Office of the
Superintendent of Insurance, at 855-857-0972 or 827-4465.
"Ashley's job is to know where people should fit," Ezekiel said. "They can call
her anytime. We will try to pick up the ball and run with it for folks running
into these issues."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             143 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             August 30, 2013 Friday

On Obamacare, a chance for Congress to do something useful

LENGTH: 718 words


The Affordable Care Act faces a monumental public relations challenge as some of
its major provisions start to take effect in the coming months.


First, there's the popularity challenge.


In mid-June, 43 percent of Americans had an unfavorable view of the health care
reform bill signed into law in 2010, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation's
health tracking poll. Thirty-five percent of Americans held a favorable view.


Among likely voters, Rasmussen Reports last week found the split was 41 percent
favorable, 54 percent unfavorable.


Some 33 percent of respondents told Kaiser's pollsters the law would make them
worse off, compared with 19 percent who thought they would be better off because
of the law and 40 percent who thought it would make no difference.


But regardless of what people think of the Affordable Care Act, there's nearly
universal agreement that health insurance is basically a necessity. Eighty-seven
percent of respondents agreed that having health insurance was "very important"
to them.


Then -- and perhaps more importantly -- there's the awareness challenge.


In April, Kaiser's tracking poll found 42 percent of Americans thought the
Affordable Care Act was no longer the law.


Indeed, House Republicans have voted 40 times to repeal the law they hate with
all their might -- but for which they have no alternative. Their repeal votes
won't go anywhere in a Democratic Senate and while Barack Obama is president,
but their repeated attempts to overturn the law could be having a public
relations effect. Twelve percent of Americans in April thought Congress had
overturned Obamacare.


In that context, try conveying to the public what a complicated law actually
does, and you have a major public relations puzzle on your hands.


Enter members of Congress.


In 2014, 7 million Americans are expected to enroll in individual health
insurance plans through online insurance marketplaces. Enrollment in those
marketplaces opens Oct. 1. A majority of those 7 million Americans -- the Kaiser
Family Foundation estimates 65 percent -- haven't previously had health
insurance coverage.


It's also safe to say a significant portion of those 7 million aren't yet aware
of the coverage options that will be available to them and how they can enroll.


How can members of Congress help when so many of them have sought only to
destroy the Affordable Care Act?


Senators, representatives and their staffers will be among those 7 million
Americans expected to enroll in health insurance exchanges during the exchanges'
first year (enrollment is expected to reach 24 million by 2017). Under a
provision in the law that was originally an attempt to sink it altogether,
members of Congress and their staffs will drop the coverage they receive through
the Federal Employees Health Benefits program on Jan. 1. In its place, they'll
choose from the plans offered in their states through health insurance
exchanges.


Since our elected officials will be navigating health insurance exchanges just
as millions of other Americans are, members of Congress can serve as examples to
their uninsured constituents.


Senators should speak openly about how they'll decide which coverage option is
best for them and how they'll learn about the available options. Representatives
should show their constituents how they plan to sign up for coverage. (In Maine,
residents will access the state's health insurance exchange through
www.healthcare.gov.)


People who need insurance will pick up bits and pieces of information through
the public awareness campaign the White House is making a top priority this
year. But they'll probably learn best through example. And members of Congress
are examples with big mouthpieces.


Of course, we'd expect the members of Congress who support the Affordable Care
Act would be more eager than their colleagues on the other side of the aisle to
take on this role. We can already hear the partisan accusations from Obamacare
critics aimed at members of Congress who try to show their constituents how they
can obtain health insurance.


But is it really advancing a purely political cause to help constituents obtain
health insurance coverage -- something that 88 percent of them say they need?


We look at it as an opportunity for a Congress that hasn't been able to
accomplish much to, at last, do something useful.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Bangor Daily News


                             144 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
             Property & Casualty/Risk & Benefits Management Edition

                                December 2, 1996

HIAA: Big Year Ahead For Federal Health Reform

BYLINE: BY MARY JANE FISHER

SECTION: Pg. 42

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


American voters continue to put health care reform in the "top rung" of issues
that concern them, assuring more battles for employers, insurers and agents in
the next Congress, according to the Health Insurance Association of America.

"Health care is right up there with the other major issues," said HIAA President
Bill Gradison.

The states have a big job ahead in implementing the requirements of the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, cosponsored by Sens. Nancy
Kassebaum, R-Kan., and Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and signed into law by
President Clinton, Mr. Gradison explained.

Looking beyond enactment of the Kassebaum-Kennedy bill into law, Mr. Gradison
called 1996 "a watershed year" in terms of the regulation of health insurance
plans by the federal government.

"It is clear that the federal government, as well as the states, is in the
business of specifying certain benefits, whether it's for an ERISA plan, a
managed care plan or a regular insurance policy," he said.

Among the health insurance mandates that may come up in the 105th Congress are
extension of mental health parity benefits, coverage for experimental
treatments, emergency room coverage based on a "prudent person" criteria, and
length of hospital stay for mastectomies, according to Mr. Gradison.

Another possible mandate affecting employers is President Clinton's proposal to
extend health insurance coverage for short-term unemployment, he said.

The second major area for Congressional attention is expected to
beanti-managed-care proposals, Mr. Gradison added.

"We're delighted with the outcomes [on anti-managed-care initiatives] in Oregon
and California," Mr. Gradison said. "Both states turned them down by substantial
margins."

Anti-managed-care measures expected to be offered by members of Congress,
particularly those who are physicians, will target "anti-gag" laws, prohibitions
on disclosure of terms of provider contracts and out-of-network options, he
said.

Other subjects which could see hearings, he noted, are genetic testing, privacy
concerns, fraud and abuse and domestic violence.

Emphasizing that while Washington-based HIAA remains "strongly in favor" of
universal coverage and wants to extend coverage to groups that need it, Mr.
Gradison cautioned that HIAA doesn't want to see the relationship of the
employer as the provider of health insurance weakened.

"We think it would be counterproductive for people who are already covered to
pay [through higher premiums] for health insurance for those who don't have it,"
he said.

Mr. Gradison said HIAA believes it would be better for the federal government to
provide funds for families to buy health insurance.

"I don't know any way to extend coverage for health insurance without money on
the table," he added. For example, he said, it would be better to give the
unemployed cash to buy health insurance, probably through Medicaid.

"My concern is, we don't want to reduce coverage by employers for some children
to give coverage to others," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1996 The National Underwriter Company


                             145 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            January 27, 2014 Monday

Forum scheduled to help area residents navigate federal health insurance law

LENGTH: 471  words


A free public forum next week aims to help Oshkosh-area residents clear up the
confusion surrounding health insurance and the Affordable Care Act.
Sponsored by Oshkosh Northwestern Media and the Winnebago County League of Women
Voters, the forum at 7 p.m. Wednesday, Feb, 5, at the Oshkosh Convention Center
will provide information about the law and how to navigate the federal insurance
marketplace.


Oshkosh Northwestern Managing Editor James Fitzhenry said the idea for the forum
was born out of a need to clear up confusion in the community about the law and
its requirements.
The federal health insurance marketplace through which uninsured Wisconinites
are able to enroll in health insurance plans was initially plagued at its
October rollout with a malfunctioning website. Since then, the site has been
improved and more people are signing up, but many are still confused about the
law and fewer than expected have selected insurance packages.
"We have an obligation to keep our readers and the public informed about
important issues," Fitzhenry said. "We really didn't see anybody else who was
doing it, so we wanted to partner with a strong group who has experience in
running meetings and doing successful forums."
The LWV was a great organization to partner with for it, he said.
LWV President Kathy Propp echoed Fitzhenry's sentiment.
"There's a great deal of confusion, apprehension, misunderstanding about who is
required to sign up, who isn't required to sign up and who might need this
health insurance," Propp said. "I don't think I can stress enough the importance
of someone attending this forum who needs health insurance."
Jeanne Bredbeck, a LWV member who has done extensive research on the topic, will
outline key parts of the marketplace, questions to ask before choosing a health
care plan and what steps to take after making that decision.
Following the presentation, there will be a question and answer period in which
experts will take questions from the audience. The panel includes J.P. Wieske,
from the Wisconsin Office of the Commissioner of Insurance, Deidre Kunz, SRA
Oshkosh Enrollment Assistance Center, Susan Garcia Franz, Winnebago County
Health Department and Brian Marmes, an insurance navigator and Health Insurance
Broker.
Four companies offering marketplace insurance plans in Winnebago County will
have representatives present to answer individual questions and provide
information as well.
Political debate and opinions about the Affordable Care Act will not be a part
of the forum, Fitzhenry said. The focus will instead be on providing people with
accurate information about the law and where they can go for help.

"So much of the healthcare law... is controversial and it's political," he said.
"We wanted to have a forum where it's just factual."© 2014 Legal Monitor
Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             146 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday

EDITORIAL: Harming our future: Alabama's risk is great if Affordable Care Act is
struck down

BYLINE: The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 499 words


March 28--Today is the third and final day that the Supreme Court will hear
arguments over the constitutionality of the 2010 Affordable Care Act. Alabama is
among the 26 states suing to keep the law from taking effect.

That means Alabama is spending money to take away the promise of health
insurance for 16 percent of its residents who, according to research by the
Kaiser Family Foundation, lack health insurance. Further, it means Alabama, a
state government which just this month ordered another round of budget cuts, is
spending scarce resources to take away health insurance from its own people.

In other words, state crime labs close, and Alabama finds money to fight a
federal law.

The state's courts are reducing staff and shrinking the number of days for
trials, and Alabama finds money to fight a federal law.

State mental-health services are facing the ax, and Alabama finds money to fight
a federal law.

Public schools are being asked to do more with less, and Alabama finds money to
fight a federal law.

We could go on, but the point is made. Montgomery has its priorities, and
apparently removing the promise of health insurance to those currently uninsured
is at or near the top of the list.

Let's imagine then what happens if Alabama and the other plaintiffs are
successful.

The Affordable Care Act's design was to better distribute the risk, which is the
point of insurance. Otherwise, those with insurance eventually pick up the tab
for the uninsured when they get sick and need treatment, usually in an
inefficient manner where the costs are triple or more.

Getting to this better place requires a health-insurance mandate, a notion
originally promoted in this country by a conservative think-tank, the Heritage
Foundation. Twenty years or so ago, the individual mandate was all the rage for
conservative politicians who wanted to stop the freeloaders who were a drag on
the system.

Six years ago, a Republican governor from Massachusetts pushed through
health-care reform that included the mandate. Today, Mitt Romney tries to keep
as much distance as he can between himself and his policy, which, by the way,
did insure more Bay State residents without substantially driving up costs.

That is Massachusetts, a state with a reputation for liberal politics and
schools that out-perform any other state in the nation. Alabama has a reputation
for conservative politics and schools that lag behind the rest of the United
States. Alabama's history is one where the federal government has historically
been forced to swoop in to take care of problems Montgomery wouldn't face.

As in times past, Alabama is pushing back, and harming the future of its own
residents in the process.

So, imagine the Supreme Court strikes down the Affordable Care Act as
unconstitutional. What comes next for the uninsured? For Alabama, the answer is
easy: Nothing.

___ (c)2012 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120328-AO-EDITORIAL-Harming-our-future-Alabama-s-risk-is-great-if-Affordable-C
are-Act-is-struck-down-0328-20120328

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2012 The Anniston Star


                             147 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   Gulf Times

                           February 12, 2015 Thursday

'Slight delay' in health insurance plan for expats

BYLINE: Santhosh V Perumal Business Reporter

LENGTH: 468  words


Dr Ali: NHIC acting CEO


The National Health Insurance Company (NHIC) has postponed the implementation of
comprehensive compulsory medical insurance coverage for all expatriates, which
was supposed to be in place this year.


"The stage (for the implementation of Seha to expatriates as well) has been
slightly postponed," NHIC acting CEO Dr Faleh Mohamed Hussain Ali told the media
yesterday on the sidelines of a function to launch "Be Our Eyes" campaign,
through which it sought the support of general public in reporting suspected
frauds and abuse in the health insurance.
Asked about the reason for the postponement of Seha to expatriates, the senior
official said NHIC preferred to wait as there was a need for further studies and
hoped that it could  be implemented before the end of 2016.
NHIC  is a government-owned entity that manages and operates Seha, the national
health insurance scheme in Qatar. The scheme provides mandatory health insurance
coverage through a network of public and private providers and forms a key
component in the realisation of the National Health Strategy and the overall
Qatar National Vision 2030.
The Health Insurance Law Number 7 of 2013 was approved to commence the
implementation of compulsory health insurance in a phased manner, initially
targeting Qatari nationals.
The beneficiaries of the health insurance scheme will be able to obtain services
from both public and private healthcare providers. The final stage will cover
the blue-collar expatriate workers for all services. They will have access to
the Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) hospitals, expanded private providers as
well as three new single male labourers' hospitals being built.
Article 18 of the Health Insurance Law prohibits employers and sponsors from
recovering any health insurance premiums from employees (and their families) or
sponsored persons, respectively.
The premiums for Qatari nationals, non-Qatari women married to Qatari men and
the children of Qatari women married to non-Qataris will be paid by the
government, while the premiums of other residents, their spouses, and first
three children must be paid by their employer.
Some details of the mandatory Seha cover are yet to be finalised and this may be
holding back employers from making plan design changes in readiness for the new
regulations, according to Mercer, a global consulting leader in talent, health,
retirement and investments.
However, as things stand, it will be likely that most employers, certainly the
majority of multinationals will have to make changes to their current
arrangements in order to be compliant, it had said. The Gulf Co-operation
Council healthcare market is projected to grow annually at 12% to nearly $70bn
by 2018 from an estimated almost $40bn in 2013, according to estimates.

(Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 183


                      Copyright 2015 Gulf Times Newspaper
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             148 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            April 28, 1992, Tuesday

'Easy' answer is the wrong one

BYLINE: JACK D. DAVIS - Newnan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 13

LENGTH: 265 words


The Editors: Health-care reform is one of the most important issues facing the
nation. There is an easy-sounding solution currently being proposed, however,
that I believe would not be the best option for our country, for business
owners, for this community, or for patients. That proposed system is national
health insurance.

The truth about national health insurance - or socialized medicine, as some call
it - is that under such a program, health-care services would have to be
rationed in accordance with the government's budget limit. If the experience of
other countries is any indication of the impact of nationalized health care,
then elderly and low-income people would be hurt the most. Rationing programs
tend to favor the young and well-off.

We must control health-care costs. Hospitals, too, are hit hard financially by
the rising cost of professional salaries and life-saving equipment - not to
mention the rising cost of providing "free" (uncompensated) care to those
patients who cannot afford to pay.

There is a way to control costs that will work: Hospitals and physicians must
work together with those in our community who pay for health insurance to
examine ways to eliminate unnecessary care; encourage the use of managed care
(HMOs, PPOs); urge our legislators to enact sane malpractice laws; and create
incentives to help smaller employers afford health insurance for their workers.

Our problems are not so overwhelming that we should destroy a health- care
system considered the best in the world in favor of something that we already
know doesn't work.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                             149 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday

Diet enacts revised health insurance law

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 305 words


The Diet revised the national health insurance law Wednesday so that people with
high incomes may shoulder heavier premium burdens to support the health
insurance system for people 75 or older.

The enactment came after the House of Councillors passed the bill at a plenary
session the same day with a majority vote by the ruling parties. The revised law
will go into effect as early as next week.

Under the current system, people who pay health insurance premiums contribute a
fixed amount to support insurance for the elderly. With the revision, one-third
of the 3.6 trillion yen in contributions from insurance premiums will be
collected proportionately according to income level for the next three years.

Also, the ratio of state subsidies to contributions by the Japan Health
Insurance Association, Kyokai Kenpo, whose members include employees of small
and midsize companies, will increase from the current 13 percent to 16.4
percent. This would result in a 85 billion yen reduction in Kyokai Kenpo's
share.

However, the burden on health insurance associations for larger companies will
increase by 50 billion yen and on mutual aid associations for civil servants by
35 billion yen. The increases may result in higher premiums for members of these
associations.

According to the National Federation of Health Insurance Societies, its members
are expected to post a record high deficit of 660 billion yen this fiscal year,
even without the increase in contributions to the program for the elderly. A
federation official voiced opposition, saying, "It's unreasonable for us to
shoulder the [increased] burdens."

In the upper house, the Liberal Democratic Party voted against the bill.

Hirohiko Nakamura, an LDP upper house member, said in a speech opposing the
bill, "This is just a temporary fix that passes the problem down the road."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                             150 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

Opt in to savings;
Law lets communities join state health insurance plan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; IN OUR OPINION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 273 words


Legislation allowing municipalities to opt into the state's health insurance
pool should be a real boon to communities.

The measure, approved by the Legislature last week and signed into law by Gov.
Deval L. Patrick yesterday, is one of the provisions of the administration's
proposed Municipal Partnership Act. (Also signed into law was a bill to require
underperforming pension systems to turn over their funds for state management.)

The new law will allow all communities to enroll their employees in the
state-run Group Insurance Commission health insurance plan. The savings come
from the fact that the state has the ability to leverage its large employee pool
to negotiate favorable rates.

Because joining GIC would, in many cases, involve changes in the specifics of
the health insurance benefit, the issue would be subject to bargaining with
municipal employee unions. While the share of premiums paid by the municipality
and employee might change, the overall cost is apt to be considerably less than
premiums negotiated with insurers by individual municipalities.

Cities and towns no longer can bear the double-digit increases in health
insurance premiums that have cut deeply into local revenues in recent years.
Statewide, from 2001 through 2005, premiums for municipal employees went up on
average 12 percent per year, as compared to the annual consumer price inflation
rate, which ranged from 1.6 percent to 3.4 percent.

The speedy action on this issue by the governor and Legislature is commendable.
Enlisting the state's bargaining power to control the cost of health benefits is
an option all communities should consider seriously.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             151 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court May Review Health Insurance Case

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 266 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25


The United States Supreme Court asked the Justice Department today for its views
on laws that bar health care plans from setting up closed networks of doctors,
pharmacies and other medical providers.

The health insurance industry has been fighting so-called any-willing-provider
laws, which are in place in various forms in 24 states.

The laws generally require health plans with preferred provider networks to pay
for coverage provided by any doctor who has accepted the plan's payment terms.

The justices sought the solicitor general's advice on whether they should hear a
challenge to Kentucky's any-willing-provider law, which is being challenged by
Aetna, Humana and other health-insurance companies.

Insurers argue that any-willing-provider laws confound the nationwide push
toward lower-cost managed-care plans. They have said that limiting the number of
providers ensures that each will get a significant volume of patients -- giving
the plans leverage to demand that doctors accept lower payments for services.

Such laws threaten to undermine the ability of managed-care organizations to
contain costs and improve the quality of care delivered to their participants,
said an appeal filed by Community Health Partners and other health plans
challenging the Kentucky law.

Defenders of the laws have said that they enhance the rights of patients and
doctors in their dealings with powerful health insurance companies.

Kentucky argued in a court filing that its legislators sought to provide
additional benefits to consumers, many of whom were limited to one choice of
insurer in their region.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             152 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                       Qatar News Agency (QNA) (English)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

Cabinet discusses measures to issue a draft law on social health insurance
system

LENGTH: 920  words


[#x200b]Doha, May 08 (QNA) - HE the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sheikh
Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabor Al Thani presided over  the Cabinet weekly regular
session held today at the Emiri Diwan.The Cabinet discussed topics on its agenda
as follows:First: Took necessary measures to issue a draft law on the social
health insurance system, after taking note of the Advisory Council's
recommendation on the draft law.The law aims at providing the best health
services to citizens and residents who are benefiting from the health insurance
at health facilities authorized to provide health services and insurance cover
by institutions legally authorized to practice the insurance activity.The health
insurance system will be mandatory. The health insurance services will include
the mandatory health services, preventive, treatment, occupational and medical
check-up services in exchange for the payment of the health insurance
installments. The government will be responsible for the payment of the health
insurance installments of each Qatari citizen.As per the law, a company to be
named: the National Health Insurance  Company shall be established to become
responsible for the effective application and management of the system under the
supervision of the Supreme Council of Health.Second: Took necessary measures for
the issuance of a draft law amending some provisions of Law No. 19 of 2005
regulating the practice of engineering professions, after taking note of the
Advisory Council's recommendation on the draft law.The draft law includes rules
related to the formation of the committee in charge of the acceptance and
classification of engineers and the engineering consulting offices, showing the
period of registration in the record, which is three years for the engineer and
two years for the engineering consulting offices as well as fees of registration
in the records.

Owners of the engineering consulting offices, their partners and engineers
working in their offices are banned from working at any ministry, other
government departments as well as public authorities or corporations. Exempted
from that the Qatari teaching staff members holding  PHD degrees who teach
engineering at universities.Third: Approved a draft law amending some provisions
of Law No. 14 of 1999 on Weapons, Ammunitions and Explosives and decided to
refer it the Advisory Council.Fourth: Approved a Cabinet draft resolution
establishing the national explosives affairs committee.As per the resolution, a
committee to be named the National Explosives Affairs Committee is to be
established at the Interior Ministry. The committee shall have a number of
functions including the provision of consultancy to competent government bodies
in connection with matters related to explosives and raw materials used in their
manufacturing, control over the  import, export, production, preparation and
consumption of explosive materials and the insuring of their storage. Fifth:
Approved a draft decision by the Minister of Business and Trade on regulations
determining the price of fish and seafood and their selling mechanism.In order
to take the necessary measures to protect the consumer, the draft decision was
prepared to include provisions for the sale of domestic and imported fish and
seafood from wholesalers to retailers through the auction at the time and the
place determined by the Department of Consumer Protection. The Department
determines and control the maximum retail prices and  issue a daily bulletin
setting the maximum selling prices to  the consumer and obliging the seller to
place the price bulletin  in a prominent and clear place .Sixth: Approved a
draft decision amending some provisions of ministerial decision No. 3  of 1992
regulating intermediary work for the sale of fruit and vegetables at the Central
Market.Seventh: Approved a draft decision by the Minister of Business and Trade
amending some provisions of decision No. 70 of 2006 on commercial stores located
in residential areas.In this regard, coordination was made between the
ministries of business and trade, and municipality and urban planning on a
proposal regarding the renewal of licenses for those stores for one year with
effect from 6.7.2013.Eighth: Approved the entry into force of the provisions of
Law No. 24 of 2002 on retirement and pensions for Qataris working in each of the
following:  A - Bidayah Center for Entrepreneurship and Professional
Development. B - Innovation Capital Foundation - Qatar. C - Meeza QSTP Company.
Ninth: Took necessary measures to endorse the following:   a: A security
agreement among GCC countries.   b:  A Memorandum of Understanding on bilateral
consultations between the Foreign Ministry of the State of Qatar and the Foreign
Ministry  of the Republic of Peru.  Tenth: The Cabinet reviewed the following
topics and took the appropriate decisions thereon:   a - A letter by HE the
Armed Forces Chief of Staff on the retirement and pensions of military
personnel.   b - A memorandum by the Ministry of Economy and Finance on the
requirements of Qatar International Court  and  Dispute Resolution Centre on the
appointment of some Judges at the  Court.   c - A Letter by HE the Minister of
Energy and Industry containing a proposal for the approval of the extension of
the validity of the Memorandum of Understanding signed on 16.1.2011 between the
Ministry of Energy and Industry of the State of Qatar and the Ministry of
Electricity, Energy and Mineral Resources of  the People's Republic of
Bangladesh.(QNA)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1281


                        Copyright 2013 Qatar News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             153 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times (Munster, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 15, 2010 Saturday

State formally joins suit to stop health reform

BYLINE: Dan Carden, The Times, Munster, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 330 words


May 15--INDIANAPOLIS -- The state of Indiana on Friday formally joined a
multistate lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the new federal health
insurance reform law.

Attorney General Greg Zoeller said an amended complaint was filed Friday in
Florida federal court adding Indiana to the 19 other states seeking to have the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ruled unconstitutional.

The suit claims that the law's "individual mandate," which requires every
American to purchase health insurance or pay a fine, violates the constitution
by regulating inactivity -- the act of not buying insurance -- and taxes
Americans just for being alive. The plaintiffs also claim the new law infringes
on state sovereignty by taking away state authority to regulate insurance
companies, mandating that states pay for an expanded Medicaid program and
forcing states to set up insurance exchanges.

"There is much public debate on whether the new federal health care law is good
public policy and how much it will cost states. That is not the subject of this
lawsuit," Zoeller said. "My only concern is whether the federal government has
the authority it claims under the United States Constitution, a question rightly
brought before the courts."

"The people of Indiana did not elect me to simply trust the federal government,"
he said.

The first hearing on the multistate lawsuit is scheduled for Sept.14 in Florida.

Zoeller said he will only use lawyers from his office for Indiana's share of the
work on the lawsuit so taxpayers do not have to pay for outside counsel.

To see more of The Times, Munster, Ind., or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.nwitimes.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Times, Munster, Ind.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100515-MU-HEALTH-REFORM-LAWSUIT-20100515

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MU


                            Copyright 2010 The Times


                             154 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 15, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Court Voids A D.C. Rule On Benefits;
Health Insurance Coverage Limited

Joan Biskupic, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 997 words


The Supreme Court yesterday struck down a District law that required employers
to pay health benefits for up to a year to injured employees receiving workers'
compensation.

By an 8 to 1 vote, the court said the local law was preempted by a federal
statute, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), which
comprehensively regulates private employee benefit plans.

Charles L. Reischel, deputy corporation counsel for the District, said the
court's ruling in District of Columbia v. the Greater Washington Board of Trade
makes workers vulnerable exactly when they most need a safety net: when they are
off the job because of an injury.

"The purpose of the [District] law was to recognize that health insurance is
protection against disaster," Reischel said.

Unlike most jurisdictions, the District law went beyond requiring standard
workers' compensation benefits for an injured worker by ordering that general
health insurance benefits from an employer continue for as long as 52 weeks
after an injury forces a worker off the job.

Reischel said that under yesterday's ruling, injured workers still will "get
medical benefits under workers' compensation, but if anything happens to their
family" while the worker is laid up, "there's no longer any guarantee that the
health benefits are protected."

Officials from the Greater Washington Board of Trade, which had challenged the
1990 Workers' Compensation Equity Amendment Act, said the ruling yesterday will
save area employers millions of dollars. "This costly mandate would have
hindered businesses' ability to compete," Gerald M. Lowrie, president of the
Board of Trade, said in a prepared statement. "Since all employers would be
assessed to pay for the extended health benefits, a favorable decision ... has
saved each employer about 5 percent of their workers' compensation premium."

Washington lawyer Lawrence P. Postol, who argued the Board of Trade's case
before the court, said, "A lot of people say you are denying benefits for poor,
injured workers, but if you allow the states to bog down health insurance,
employers won't offer health insurance at all."

Overall, the ruling makes it virtually impossible for states to tie workers'
compensation, unemployment compensation or disability insurance to health
insurance benefits.

The first three types of benefits are not covered by ERISA, and therefore can be
the domain of states. But health insurance is covered by the federal law and
cannot be regulated by the states.

The court's opinion will have implications beyond the District.

A Connecticut law similar to the District's is now in legal jeopardy, as could
be several states' statutes that include health benefits in a worker's average
weekly wage when calculating disability benefits.

Justice Clarence Thomas, writing for the court, said state benefit laws may not
"specifically refer" to any benefit plan covered by ERISA, including health
insurance.

He adopted an especially broad understanding of ERISA's preemption, saying the
District law "specifically refers to welfare benefit plans regulated by ERISA
and on that basis alone is preempted."

District officials had argued that the law in question actually concerns
workers' compensation benefits, which are not preempted by ERISA. However,
Thomas wrote that the breadth of a law does not matter, once it relates to a
preempted area.

ERISA's broad preemption provision, according to the Bush administration, which
sided with the Board of Trade in the case, was intended "to clear the field so
that private employers sponsoring employee benefit plans ... would not be
subject to overlapping regulation."

For the past decade, the District has required employers to compensate workers
who are hurt on the job for loss of income and for disability. In 1990, the D.C.
Council amended the law to require employers who provide health insurance to
their workers to provide it up to one year to employees who are injured on the
job and eligible for workers' compensation.

The law, which took effect March 6, 1991, was swiftly challenged by the Board of
Trade, which represents businesses in the District, Northern Virginia and the
Maryland suburbs.

A federal district court ruled that the District law was not preempted because
it also related to workers compensation plans, which are exempt from ERISA
coverage, and because an employer could comply with the District law "by
creating a separate administrative unit to administer the required benefits."

But the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit last year
reversed the lower court, saying that because the benefit levels of the workers'
compensation plan were linked to ERISA-covered health insurance benefits, the
local law "could have a serious impact on the administration and content of the
ERISA-covered plan."

In its arguments before the high court, the District had relied on a 1983 ruling
in which the court said ERISA did not preempt state disability insurance laws
because employers could meet the law by setting up benefit plans that were
separate from the ERISA-covered plans. But Thomas said the disability benefits
in Shaw v. Delta Air Lines Inc. were not subject to ERISA regulation.

Justice John Paul Stevens was the only justice to dissent, arguing that the
ruling was too broad.

"In today's world, the typical employee's compensation is not just her take-home
pay; it often includes fringe benefits such as vacation pay and health insurance
," Stevens wrote.

"If an employee loses her job, by reason of either a wrongful discharge or a
negligently inflicted physical injury, normal contract or tort principles would
allow her to recover damages measured by her entire loss of earnings --
including the value of fringe benefits such as health insurance."

Stevens added that the District law "does not regulate even one inch of the
preempted field, and poses no threat whatsoever of conflicting and inconsistent
regulation."

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                             155 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                            January 28, 2011 Friday

York County couple fighting health reform law clears first legal hurdle

BYLINE: CHRISTINA KAUFFMAN The York Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 618 words


A federal judge has ruled partially in favor of an Etters couple who are
challenging the "individual mandate" under the federal health care reform law.

The husband and wife, who own Performance Marine in Newberry Township, claim the
law is unconstitutional and will have an immediate financial impact on them
because they'll be required to buy health insurance in 2014.

U.S. Middle District Judge Christopher C. Connor recently denied the federal
government's motion to dismiss the suit filed by self-employed business owners
Gregory Bachman and Barbara Goudy-Bachman, who currently don't carry medical
insurance. That doesn't mean they win the entire case, though. Connor has yet to
decide on the meatier issue: whether the mandate exceeds the power of Congress
and is unconstitutional.

Insurance vs. car: Under the law's "individual mandate" provisions, people who
don't have health insurance will have to buy it beginning in January 2014 or
face a penalty on their tax returns. The couple claims the health insurance
legislation is having an immediate impact on their finances

because they can't buy a new car.

The couple has a monthly disposable income of $450, the suit claims. They will
need a five-year loan on any of the three "suitable vehicle models" they've
identified, if the purchase is to stay within budget. However, they can't buy a
vehicle because their disposable income will have to be used to purchase health
insurance in 2014, the suit claims.

The couple claims the individual mandate exceeds Congress's authority because it
violates the Commerce Clause of the constitution. They say they've suffered
economic and non-economic harm as a result of it, because they can't take out a
five-year loan and must rearrange their finances before the law becomes
effective. They're being deprived of a new car and their long-term purchasing
power has been harmed, they claim.

The government has argued that circumstances could change so the mandate will
not affect them; they could get jobs with health insurance or become eligible
for Medicaid, for example.

Judge agrees: Connor said the government's argument that the law doesn't require
the couple to take action now "simply falls flat." He cited a Michigan case in
which the Thomas More Law Center argued that the government is requiring people
to undertake an expense, and financial planning is necessary for the future
expense.

"The Bachmans have no crystal ball..." he wrote in his decision.

He also rejected the government's arguments that the couple doesn't face "a
substantial threat of real harm," again saying that the two will have to alter
their spending habits before the mandate is effective.

Lawyer speaks: The couple represents the first non-government plaintiffs to
establish a standing -- whose case hasn't been tossed on a motion to dismiss --
to challenge the mandate.

Speaking on behalf of the couple, Lancaster-based attorney Paul Rossi lauded the
judge's decision. While still awaiting the judge's decision on the Commerce
Clause, he said the earlier ruling is significant.

In federal cases, it's very difficult to show a case has a standing, he said.

"The fact that we've cleared this hurdle is considerable," he said.

He said he thinks the couple will go on to win the case because Congress
exceeded its bounds under the Commerce Clause.

"This is saying Congress has a right to force you to engage in commerce," he
said. "... if that's the case, then they have power to command every adult to
purchase a Prius because it would help the environment."

He said it's not clear when the judge will rule on the second half of the case.

-- Reach Christina Kauffman at 505-5436, ckauffman@yorkdispatch.com, or follow
her on Twitter at @dispatchbizwiz.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             156 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday

Health insurance for all in Dubai

BYLINE: Jennifer Bell

LENGTH: 707  words


From next year, health insurance will now become compulsory for every male and
female employee and their children, as long as they live in the emirate, the
director general of the Dubai Health Authority announces.


Employers to insure staff, spouses and children in new law
DUBAI // Employers will provide compulsory health insurance for every worker in
Dubai under a scheme approved yesterday.
The scheme, which also covers employees' spouses and children for as long as
they live in the emirate, will be brought into effect next year.


It extends cover to domestic staff, and visitors to Dubai in case of an
emergency.
"Health insurance is a form of security and it is very important for every
individual to know that if he needs access to health care it is easily
available," said Essa Al Maidoor, director general of the Dubai Health
Authority.
Valid health insurance will be a prerequisite for gaining residency visas.
The plan, which has been years in the making, was first due to be introduced
four years ago and is loosely based on the Abu Dhabi model.
Mr Al Maidoor said the Health Insurance Law was passed this week by Sheikh
Mohammed bin Rashid, Vice President and Ruler of Dubai.
"We would like to thank His Highness Sheikh Mohammed and we are committed to
fulfil his vision and ensure every individual knows that if he needs access to
health care, it is easily accessible," he said. "The law is fundamental to
ensure smooth delivery of basic health insurance to everyone living in the
emirate, which roughly means more than 3 million people, including nationals and
residents with Dubai visas."
Mr Al Maidoor said the DHA had studied 12 of the best health insurance systems
in the world.
It will take about three years for the population to be fully covered, with
about a third now insured. The Government will be responsible for insuring UAE
nationals.
Coverage will be phased in from next year until mid-2016, with all workers
requiring at least the basic package.
Mr Al Maidoor said average cost of basic insurance would be about 1.5 per cent
of a worker's salary. Employers can choose to top it up.
The plan to insure visitors to Dubai will be introduced in the later stages.
The law will ensure growing investment in the healthcare sector in Dubai and the
UAE, and was the product of "very, very hard work" by those involved, Mr Al
Maidoor said.
He said the DHA had wanted to ensure everything was ready before launching the
scheme.
"Anything like this has to be done right and properly, without any negative
impacts,"  Mr Al Maidoor said. "Our role is to guarantee a proper, comprehensive
service."

Abu Dhabi, the only other emirate with mandatory insurance, has 98 per cent of
its workers covered. Daman is the main insurer in the emirate.
All Dubai workers will be given insurance cards to replace their DHA cards, said
Dr Haider Al Yousuf, director of health funding at the authority.
"For residents, the health insurance law sets forth the employer's
responsibility to secure insurance to cover the employees he sponsors," Dr Al
Yousuf said.
Only registered insurance companies with health insurance permits from the DHA
would be able to provide insurance.
"This is to provide everyone with the basic right to health care in a well
regulated model," Dr Al Yousuf said.
"This stems from the Government's fundamental goal to provide happiness and
security to the people of the country."
He said the law stipulated the roles and responsibilities of all stakeholders.
Failure by employers to provide insurance carries fines of between Dh500 and
Dh150,000. Repeated breaches carry a maximum fine of Dh500,000.
Under the DHA's original plan, employers would pay the Government between Dh500
and Dh800 a year for each employee, who would register with an outpatient clinic
for basic healthcare services.
The plan was delayed partly because of the economic downturn. A new proposal, in
2011, cut out the Government, requiring companies to buy private health
insurance for their staff.
As in Abu Dhabi, Dubai is operating an online clearing house for every claim.
jbell@thenational.ae
<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>Copyrights © 2013 Abu Dhabi Media Company, All
rights reserved.Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2013 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             157 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        SUNDAY TELEGRAM (Massachusetts)

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

Budget buster;
CBO estimate on Obamacare at $1.76 trillion

SECTION: EDITORIAL; IN OUR OPINION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 545 words


Two years ago, just before Congress narrowly approved the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, colloquially known as Obamacare, we pointed out that the
legislation relied upon some duplicitous math to tamp down the cost.
Specifically, President Barack Obama and Democrats crafted legislation that
financed six years' worth of reforms with 10 years of taxes, a maneuver that
enabled them to claim the new law would cost $940 billion over the coming
decade.

On Tuesday, the Congressional Budget Office released a revised cost estimate,
using its 10-year outlook time frame to factor in more of the law's provisions
and their associated costs. The result is startling. The gross cost of Obamacare
from fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2022 is estimated to be a cumulative $1.76
trillion.

To be sure, the CBO report also gives a net cost, which it lists at a mere $1.25
trillion. But half of the "savings" consists of penalty payments by individuals
and businesses who fail to obtain insurance, as well as excise taxes on
high-premium insurance plans. Those billions of dollars ultimately come out of
the pockets of American workers and taxpayers.

As to Obamacare's primary and long-advertised purpose - extending health
insurance coverage to all Americans without it - the CBO report concludes that
the percentage of non-elderly Americans with coverage will go from 82 to percent
this year to 93 percent a decade from now. That means that by 2022, between 20
million and 23 million more Americans will be covered through newly created
insurance exchanges, but roughly the same number will continue to lack any
health insurance coverage.

The CBO report also estimates that between 3 million and 5 million Americans
will have shifted from an employer-provided health insurance plan into some form
of government plan.

These financial and demographic estimates matter because health insurance is not
exempt from economic laws and human nature. Competition and choice tend to
improve quality and drive down cost. But Obamacare, when fully implemented, will
have the opposite effect - exacerbating the nation's slide toward government-run
health insurance.

Later this month, the U.S. Supreme Court will hear an unprecedented
five-and-a-half hours of testimony for and against Mr. Obama's signature
legislation. Defenders of the law will argue, eloquently and with some justice,
that the insurance coverage of millions is at stake. Well, health insurance is
an important and useful thing to have, and extending its benefits to more
Americans is a social and economic good.

But how and why we expand health insurance coverage matters greatly. A principle
more important than copayments and prescription drug coverage is at stake: Does
Congress have the power to arrogate to itself the power to regulate one-sixth of
the nation's economy under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution?

We believe they do not, and expect the Court will strike down key provisions of
Obamacare, in effect telling the legislative and executive branches that they
must find a better way to achieve their policy goals.

If not, prepare for a less-free future, one in which Washington bureaucrats will
tell Americans what coverage they must carry, how much health care they may
consume, and what they must pay for it.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             158 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                     June 14, 2004 Monday Michigan Edition

People

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 1572 words


SOUTH BEND -- Martin Capital Management has announced that Drew Wilson
completed the executive MBA program at Northwestern University's Kellogg School
of Management and was admitted to the partnership.

Wilson joined the firm in September 1995 as a portfolio manager and research
analyst. He graduated magna cum laude from Loyola University Chicago in 1993,
where he majored in finance.

Wilson has received the professional credentials of a chartered financial
analyst (CFA) from the Association for Investment Management and Research in
1998. He serves on the IUSB School of Business and Economics advisory board, the
United Way of Elkhart County allocation panel and the FEMA board.

SOUTH BEND -- Anne F. Hanley , HIA, of Gibson Insurance Group has been awarded
the health insurance associate (HIA) designation by America's Health Insurance
Plans. Earning the HIA designation requires completion of a series of courses
and national examinations covering fundamentals of health insurance, medical
expense insurance and supplemental health insurance.

Anne is a client representative in the employee benefits division. Her
responsibilities include providing client service support for special accounts
as well as administrative support for the division.

SOUTH BEND -- Kristin R. Fox  has joined the law firm of Leone Halpin and
Konopinski, LLP, as an associate. A graduate of Indiana University and
Valparaiso University School of Law, she has practiced since 1998. Her areas of
practice include estate planning and administration, tax, real estate,
for-profit and non-profit organizations, commercial transactions and litigation,
business and general litigation.

Fox has been admitted to practice in all Indiana Courts and the United States
District Court, Northern and Southern Districts of Indiana. She is a member of
the Michiana Estate Planning Council, Indiana State Bar Association: probate,
trust and real property section, and the St. Joseph County Bar Association.

PLYMOUTH -- Jennifer Nifong  has successfully completed certification
requirements for the country's original program in equine sports massage
therapy. The program, offered by Equissage Inc., prepares Nifong for a career in
muscle therapy for horses engaged in athletic competition.

Massage therapy has proven to enhance the performance of equine athletes and
assist the horse in reaching its fullest potential. Certification training
concentrates on the theory of massage therapy and its benefits, as well as
hands-on experience applying the techniques on high performance horses.

SOUTH BEND -- The Alliance: A Forum of Company Leaders program through Indiana
University, the Kelley School of Business, announced the election of Joe Blazek
of State-Wide Aluminum Inc. as president-elect for 2004.

The Alliance: A Forum of Company Leaders was founded in 1991 by the Johnson
Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at Indiana University, the Kelley
School of Business. The Alliance is an educational networking organization for
chief decision makers of private, Indiana-based companies with annual sales of
at least $10 million, and is governed by its members.

SOUTH BEND -- Carol A. Hochstetler , loan review manager at 1st Source Bank, has
been promoted to senior vice president. Hochstetler began her career at 1st
Source Bank in 1986 as assistant loan review person in corporate banking
administration. She was then promoted to assistant vice president. Hochstetler
was assigned as manager of credit evaluation in 1987 and elected vice president
in April 1991.

Prior to joining 1st Source Bank, she was a manager with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell
and Co. Hochstetler graduated from Miami University with a bachelor's degree in
international studies. She also attended Indiana University, earning a second
bachelor's degree in accounting, and is a CPA.

Active at St. Dominic's Church in Bremen, she is a member of the parish council.
She is a member of the board of directors and the planning and finance
committees of the Community Hospital in Bremen and is on the Bremen public
schools' school improvement committee.

ELKHART -- David Londergan  has joined the Business Banking Group as vice
president and commercial banking officer. Londergan comes to 1st Source Bank
with 25 years of banking experience. For the past 11 years he was employed at
KeyBank in Elkhart, where he was senior vice president of corporate banking.

He attended the University of Notre Dame, where he earned a bachelor's degree in
psychology and a master's degree in finance and accounting.

Active in the community, he is a past board member and former treasurer of the
Irish Youth Hockey League, president and board member of the Michiana High
School Hockey Association and a member of the Elkhart Chamber of Commerce.

SOUTH BEND -- The 1st Source Bank Marketing Group announced that Michael J.
Szymanski  has been promoted to public relations officer. Szymanski joined the
1st Source Marketing Group in July 1998 as a public relations specialist. He
graduated from Ohio University in 1989, where he majored in advertising and
earned a bachelor's degree in journalism. Prior to coming to 1st Source Bank, he
was the marketing coordinator at the Otis R. Bowen Center for Human Services
Inc., Warsaw.

Active in the community, he volunteers for Meals on Wheels and coordinates the
Adopt-a-Highway program. He also serves on the Northern Indiana Historical
Society's marketing committee, the United Way of St. Joseph County's marketing
cabinet, is a United Way account representative and assists as coordinator and
fund-raiser for the American Cancer Society's Daffodil Days.

GRANGER -- Brandon Handley  has been accepted to the Universal Technical
Institute (UTI) campus in Glendale Heights, Phoenix. Handley will train to
become a professional automotive technician.

As a student in UTI's National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence
master certified automotive technology program, Handley will learn how to
diagnosis, service and repair domestic and foreign automobiles. From basic
engine systems to custom-built, high performance engines, students in this
program work with a variety of vehicles.

SOUTH BEND -- 84 Lumber company has hired Matt Reichold  as a manager trainee at
the 84 Lumber store in Lakeville. Reichold graduated from Marian High School in
1999 and also graduated from Indiana University of Pennsylvania in 2003. As a
manager trainee, Reichold is responsible for sales, estimating and material
takeoffs, performing in-store merchandising and maintaining store and yard
appearance.

SOUTH BEND -- Edward Jones financial services analyst Chris Blum  was recognized
as an all-star analyst by Fortune magazine in its fifth annual all-star analyst
ranking. Blum's ranking was determined by the performance of his recommendations
over the past year and three-year periods.

Fortune partnered with Zack's Investment Research for assistance in selecting
the 2004 all-star analyst team. According to Fortune, "Blum has beaten his peers
consistently over the past three years. In 2003 his recommendations gained 29
percent while the average sector analyst gained by nine percent. That followed
positive returns during the difficult market in 2001 and 2002."

SOUTH BEND -- Career Transitions LLC has announced the appointment of Tammie
Young  as the firm's business development manager. She has over 10 years
experience in the executive recruiting and management consulting industry. Young
will be offering Michiana area employers a customer-focused approach to solving
their various staffing and organizational restructuring needs. Career
Transitions LLC is an executive search and outplacement firm located downtown
South Bend.

SOUTH BEND -- Sara Dillon  recently joined Weight Watchers as an at-work account
specialist. She will be aiding South Bend's business community in creating
healthier work environments, and in turn, helping to minimize the impact of
insurance costs.

MILFORD -- Harry R. Van Horn II  has been named product manager for Chore-Time
Hog productions systems. Van Horn's responsibilities will include new product
design and development, as well as management of the current product line, and
technical service activities.

Chore-Time, a part of the CTB Inc. family of companies, a leading global
designer, manufacturer and marketer of system and solutions for the poultry,
hog, egg production and grain industries.

Prior to his employment with Chore-Time, Van Horn was most recently product
engineer/program manager for Howmet Casting, LaPorte. He also has been the
assistant quality manager for MPI Indiana Fineblanking, Knox.

A graduate of Purdue University, Van Horn earned a bachelor's degree in
mechanical engineering technology, and a master's degree in business
administration, focusing on international business. He also speaks fluent
Spanish.

Business Briefs are for executive-level appointments and significant
announcements. We do not use in-house awards. We can use color or black and
white photographs of good quality. Because of the volume of material we receive,
we cannot return photos. All photos, whether used or not, are kept in The
Tribune's library for possible future use. Send Business Briefs to the Business
News Editor, South Bend Tribune, 225 W. Colfax Ave., South Bend, IN 46626; FAX:
236-1765. Please include the name and telephone number of a contact person.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hochstetler     Londergan     Reichold     Van Horn     Wilson

                 Copyright 2004 South Bend Tribune Corporation


                             159 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Dental coalition urges health insurance antitrust enforcement

LENGTH: 434  words

DATELINE: Chicago


American Dental Associations has issued the following news release:

Twelve dental professional organizations urged Congress Feb. 5 to authorize
"greater federal antitrust enforcement" against health insurance companies
engaged in anticompetitive conduct.

The Organized Dentistry Coalition member organizations offered their "strong
support" for legislation introduced by dentist Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., to
apply federal antitrust laws to "the business of health insurance to protect
competition and consumers."

"H.R. 494 would amend the McCarran-Ferguson law and authorize the Federal Trade
Commission and the Justice Department to enforce the federal antitrust laws
against health insurance companies engaged in anticompetitive conduct," the
coalition told the House Judiciary Committee, which has legislative
jurisdiction. "It would not interfere with the states' ability to maintain and
enforce their own insurance regulations, antitrust statutes and consumer
protection laws. Because states vary in their enforcement efforts, the impact of
the amendment on health insurance companies would differ from state to state,"
the letter said.

"The bill is narrowly drawn to apply only to the business of health insurance,
including dental insurance, and would not affect the business of life insurance,
property or casualty insurance and many similar insurance areas. Passage of H.R.
494 would help interject more competition into the insurance marketplace by
authorizing greater federal antitrust enforcement in instances where state
regulators fail to act. When competition is not robust, consumers are more
likely to face higher prices and less likely to benefit from innovation and
variety in the marketplace.

"On behalf of our member dentists and their patients, we urge you to cosponsor
H.R. 494, The Competitive Health lnsurance Reform Act." Initial cosponsors
included dentist Rep. Brian Babin of Texas, 16 other Republicans and Rep. Lloyd
Doggett, D-Texas.

Coalition members on the letter to Congress include the American Dental
Association, Academy of General Dentistry, American Academy of Oral and
Maxillofacial Pathology, American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry, American
Academy of Periodontology, American Association of Endodontists, American
Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons, American Association of
Orthodontists, American Association of Women Dentists, American College of
Prosthodontists, American Society of Dental Anesthesiologists and National
Dental Association.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             160 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

Insurance co-ops among options

BYLINE: Erin Murphy TH staff writer emurphy@wcinet.com

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 538 words


health insurance options By county, these are the companies offering health
insurance in the new marketplaces for tri-state area residents seeking insurance
under the new federal health care law: IOWA Dubuque, Jackson, Clayton, Delaware
counties (3): CoOportunity Health, Coventry Health Care of Iowa, Gundersen
Health Plan WISCONSIN Grant, Crawford counties (3): Dean Health Plan, Gundersen
Health Plan, Health Tradition Health Plan Lafayette County (2): Dean Health
Plan, Group Health Cooperative of South Central Wisconsin Iowa County (3): Dean
Health Plan, Group Health Cooperative of South Central Wisconsin, Unity Health
Plans Insurance Corp. ILLINOIS Jo Daviess County (4): Health Care Service
Corporations, Land of Lincoln Mutual Health Insurance Co., Coventry Health Care,
Health Alliance Medical Plans

As people start shopping today for health insurance on the new marketplaces,
health insurance cooperatives will be among the companies offering plans.

Not unlike co-ops in other

industries - for example, agricultural or electrical co-ops or credit unions -
health insurance co-ops are consumer-owned, nonprofit organizations.

They were included in the new federal health care law in an

effort to create more competition and thus drive down the prices of premiums.

"We are nonprofit, member-governed health insurance carriers that operate for
the benefit solely of the members," said David Lyons, founder and CEO of
CoOportunity Health, which will offer plans to individuals and small businesses
throughout Iowa.

Proponents say that co-op customers benefit from a company that, by law, must
sink its profits back into the product - in the case of health insurance, by
lowering premiums or improving benefits.

"A lot of our members appreciate knowing it is their organization and they
really have a big hand in how we operate, how we are able to provide outreach to
the community at large, especially at historical points in health care like we
are now," said Jeanan Yasiri Moe, chief planning and innovation officer for
Group Health Cooperative of South Central Wisconsin, which offers plans to
residents in Lafayette and Iowa counties.

Jo Daviess County residents also will have a co-op option: Land of Lincoln
Mutual Health Insurance Co.

Some health insurance co-ops, like Group Health, have been around for decades.
Others are newer, created for - and in some cases funded by loans and grants
from - the new federal health care law.

Health insurance co-ops are not without their limitations. Newer co-ops in
particular cannot promise hospitals high patient volume in return for discounts
the way competitors can, a Kaiser Health News report said, adding that many
co-ops are "renting" provider networks assembled by competitors, which limits
the ability to negotiate.

Lyons said he believes health insurance co-ops will fit in well with other
providers under the new law.

"Health insurance in the past had been about the avoidance of risk. Health
insurance companies made money by avoiding risk and, therefore, pre-existing
conditions and previous health claims could get you denied insurance or get you
rated far higher than the

average person. Those have gone away," Lyons said. "So the focus in the future
is about managing risk."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             161 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday

Businesses face changes in health law

LENGTH: 279  words


DUDLEY The federal Affordable Care Act signed into law in 2010 was modeled on
the state's 2006 health care reform law, so the idea of a health insurance
mandate and insurance marketplace isn't new to Bay Staters.But as state health
policy officials explained Monday to a group of small-business executives, the
rollout this fall of major provisions of the federal law has prompted some
changes and questions for local business owners.


The discussion of how the Affordable Care Act meshed with the state health
reform law took place at a Blackstone Valley Chamber of Commerce health care
forum hosted by state Sen.
Richard T. Moore, D-Uxbridge, at Nichols College.The Affordable Care Act
expanded coverage, offered more incentives for small businesses to offer
insurance, and provided tools and incentives to promote wellness.
But the state and federal programs don't always dovetail neatly together, using
different rating factors and minimum benefit requirements.
"This is really, really complex, and frankly, you can't fit it on a matchbook.
You can't fit it in a sound bite," said John Polanowicz, secretary of the state
Executive Office of Health and Human Services and a former hospital executive.
Audrey Gasteier, deputy director of policy and research and director of employer
policy for the Massachusetts Health Connector, the state's health insurance
exchange, said employer group sizes play a big role in coverage requirements and
subsidies under the new federal law.
She said the Massachusetts Health Connector, designed for individuals and
businesses with up to 50 employees shopping for health insurance, focuses on
making it easier to compare and choose a health plan.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             162 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

Legislators should be involved in state's insurance exchange

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: PP EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 289 words


In connection with the health care reform law signed by President Obama last
year, Gov. Mark Dayton's team has begun work on creation of a federally funded
health insurance exchange. It would be an online marketplace that would help
consumers compare and buy health-care coverage.

Republican legislators have taken issue with what they see as unilateral action
by the governor's office. Several have argued that the Legislature should be
involved in decisions about the exchange. They're right. It should.

The issues are not clean and simple. For some legislators, the question isn't
how to develop a health insurance exchange, but rather how to avoid
participating in the federal health care reform law at all. Despite the law's
passage, that fight isn't over, and it's going to continue one way or another.
Questions about the constitutionality of a key tenet of the law - a federal
mandate that individuals buy health insurance - seem destined for the Supreme
Court. The Obama administration has been handing out exemptions to the law like
candy at a parade. Questions about its potential effects are dogging business
owners as they try to project their costs and decide whether to hire.

So there's much that's unsettled.

That said, it's responsible for the Dayton team to begin work on the
health-insurance exchange. It's also responsible for legislators to insist on
influence. The Minnesota approach to health care has always been distinctive,
and it's always involved members of the executive and legislative branches. The
fight over the federal government's role in health care is far from over, and
the outcome uncertain. Whatever happens, Minnesota's problems will still be
largely Minnesota's to address. Best to involve everybody.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             163 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday

Thousands in N.M. allowed to keep, extend health policies

BYLINE: Staci Matlock, The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 871 words


Nov. 05--Thousands of New Mexico residents with existing health insurance plans
that don't meet the new federal health insurance law won't have to get new
policies, at least not immediately.

Some can get an extension until Dec. 31, 2014, and some can stay on their
current health insurance plans indefinitely if the company doesn't make any
changes to the policies.

Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico, for example, has 17,000 members who had
health insurance policies in place before the federal Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act became law on March 23, 2010. About 3,000 of those members
live in Santa Fe County, according to Becky Kinney, spokeswoman for Blue Cross
Blue Shield of New Mexico. Those existing plans were "grandfathered" in and
don't have to meet the new federal law requirements.

"If these members choose not to make any change to their policy, they may keep
these indefinitely," Kinney said.

Those plan-holders will see their rates increase 10.2 percent next year. Those
members with grandfathered plans also can choose to get a new health insurance
plan directly through an insurance company or through the federal health
insurance exchange website.

Another 11,000 Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico health insurance
policyholders, most of them self-insured through the individual market, don't
have plans that are "grandfathered" in. They will have to purchase new policies
through Blue Cross Blue Shield or the health exchange because their existing
plans have to be terminated or changed to meet the new federal health care law,
according to Kinney.

Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico worked out a deal with the state Office of
Superintendent of Insurance to give those policyholders extra time to buy new
health insurance. Individuals with "non-grandfathered" plans can renew their
existing policies by Dec. 1. Their policies will be good then until Nov. 30,
2014, Kinney said. After that, they will have to select a health insurance plan
that complies with the Affordable Care Act.

Janice Torrez, vice president of external affairs for Blue Cross Blue Shield of
New Mexico, said the company "wanted to give clients the greatest amount of time
to decide whether they wanted to stay with their plans or get into the federal
health insurance exchange."

People who keep their non-grandfathered health insurance plans for another year
will see a 9.2 percent increase beginning Jan. 1, 2014.

Lovelace Health System also asked for extensions through next year for
policyholders on some of its existing individual plans, according to state
Insurance Superintendent John Franchini. "It gave people on individual plans
more time to select a new one," Franchini said.

Many New Mexicans with individual policies through Presbyterian Healthcare
Services have received notices that their policies will be canceled because the
plans don't comply with the new federal health law. Presbyterian didn't ask for
an extension from the state because they didn't think they would need to,
Franchini said. The company thought the federal health insurance exchange would
be working by now.

Aaron Ezekiel, who is managing the health insurance exchange for the Office of
Superintendent of Insurance, said insurance companies could grandfather in plans
that didn't comply with the Affordable Care Act, as long as they made no changes
to those policies. "We've allowed companies to extend their expiration date,"
Ezekiel said. "If they had plans that were going to expire in April, they could
extend the plan until Dec. 31, 2014. But they had to apply for the extension."

He said the grandfathered policies are typically "closed block," meaning no new
members are accepted to the plan.

"Older plans have all kinds of limitations, particularly in the individual
market," he said.

Ezekiel said it doesn't make sense for insurance companies to try to make older,
closed-block plans comply with the new federal health care law. "Closed-block
plans with mostly older and sicker members adds a whole lot more liability," he
said. "If a whole group is age 60-65 and they are getting sick, you are not
doing them a favor to keep on an old plan. Under the federal exchange, they may
qualify for a subsidy. But switching plans never makes people happy."

After age 65, people qualify for Medicare and don't have to get individual
health insurance.

New Mexico Health Connections, Molina Healthcare, Presbyterian, Lovelace and
Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico are all offering health insurance plans
through the federal health care exchange. Each company website offers more
information.

People with questions or concerns about the state or federal health insurance
exchange can call Ashley Hernandez, ombudsman with the state Office of the
Superintendent of Insurance, at 855-857-0972 or 827-4465.

"Ashley's job is to know where people should fit," Ezekiel said. "They can call
her anytime. We will try to pick up the ball and run with it for folks running
into these issues."

Contact Staci Matlock at 986-3055 or smatlock@sfnewmexican.com Follow her on
Twitter @stacimatlock.

___ (c)2013 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20131105-SF-Thousands-in-N-M-allowed-to-keep-extend-health-policies-20131105

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2013 The Santa Fe New Mexican


                             164 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                              July 04, 2014 Friday

Ruling imperils pension law High court says retirees paying / for health plan
unconstitutional

BYLINE: Kurt Erickson kurt.erickson@lee.net

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 786 words


SPRINGFIELD -- In a major win Thursday for retired state workers, the Illinois
Supreme Court said a 2012 law forcing retirees to pay a portion of their health
insurance is unconstitutional. In a decision that could have major financial
implications on the financially troubled state, the high court ruled that the
elimination of free health insurance for retired teachers, university workers
and state employees violates the 1970 Constitution.

Court watchers said the 6-1 decision likely means the justices also will toss a
landmark 2013 law that altered retiree benefits in an attempt to rein in
skyrocketing pension costs.

"I fully expect that result to occur," said Carbondale attorney Edward Kionka,
who represented retirees who had brought suit against the law.

In writing for the majority, Justice Charles Freeman said lawmakers and Gov. Pat
Quinn overstepped the Constitution when they argued that health insurance
benefits weren't protected under the state's pension law.

"(O)ther benefits, including subsidized health care, are also properly regarded
as benefits of membership in the public pensions systems and therefore likewise
protected," Freeman noted in the 20-page decision.

In a direct message to the governor and General Assembly, Freeman added, "We may
not rewrite the pension protection clause to include restrictions and
limitations that the drafters did not express and the citizens of Illinois did
not approve."

Quinn signaled the administration would continue fighting the decision, arguing
it is needed to ensure the pension system stays solvent for current and future
retirees.

"We believe the pension reform law is constitutional. This landmark law was
urgently needed to resolve the state's $100 billion pension crisis," the
governor said in a prepared statement. "We're confident the courts will uphold
this critical law that stabilizes the state's pension funds while squarely
addressing the most pressing fiscal crisis of our time by eliminating the
state's unfunded pension debt."

Attorney General Lisa Madigan said the arguments in the pension overhaul lawsuit
are different from the ones in the health insurance case.

"As a result, this opinion has no direct impact on the pension reform litigation
arguments. We will continue to vigorously defend the pension reform law,"
Madigan spokeswoman Maura Possley said.

But, Senate President John Cullerton, D-Chicago, signaled he believes the
pension overhaul will be struck down.

"If the Court's decision is predictive, the challenge of reforming our pension
systems will remain," he said in a statement.

The law, which went into effect July 1, 2013, requires retirees to pay premiums
for their health insurance, something they previously didn't have to do after
serving the state for four to 20 years.

Thursday's ruling reverses a Sangamon County judge's decision that the law
didn't violate the Constitution. Associate Judge Steven Nardulli had said health
insurance is not like a pension because advances in medical technology could
lower costs for certain procedures, while pension benefits are set when a person
retires.

Quinn and lawmakers who backed the changes had argued that the state must ask
retirees for health insurance contributions in order to provide long-term
stability to the state.

Under an agreement approved by unionized workers last year, retirees who qualify
for Medicare would have paid 2 percent of their annual pension toward health
insurance. Retirees who don't qualify for Medicare would pay 4 percent of their
pension toward health insurance.

The ruling brought cheers from the state's largest employee union.

"The Supreme Court ruled today that men and women who work to provide essential
public services -- protecting children from abuse, keeping criminals locked up,
caring for the most vulnerable and more -- can count on the Illinois
Constitution to mean what it says," said Henry Bayer, executive director of the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Council 31.

State Rep. Chapin Rose, R-Mahomet, who opposed the changes, said lawmakers
should have known better than to challenge the Constitution.

"The past four years have essentially been wasted because legislative leaders of
both parties and the governor have ignored the basic document we all took an
oath to uphold and defend," Rose said in a statement.

State Rep. Adam Brown, R-Champaign, who also voted against the health insurance
changes, said the expected lack of savings from the health insurance and pension
changes likely will trigger calls for an extension of the state's temporary
income tax increase, which rolls back on Jan. 1.

"I think there definitely will be a push by some of my colleagues for that,"
Brown said.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Pantagraph


                             165 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday

Red Sox to promote new health insurance law

BYLINE: By Hillary Chabot

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 284 words


BOSTON -- Buy me some peanuts and health insurance just isn't as catchy.

But the Boston Red Sox are pitching in anyway to spread the word about a state
law requiring every resident to have health care as of July 1. They'll announce
an ad campaign at Fenway Park today.

Officials charged with implementing the law say the television advertising
campaign is just one of the ways they plan on getting the word out.

"With the mandate so close makes sense to launch a public information campaign
to make people aware of the law and to make people aware of what choices they
have," said Dick Powers, spokesman for the Health Insurance Connector Authority.

Gov. Deval Patrick, House Speaker Sal DiMasi, Senate President Therese Murray,
and Red Sox CEO Larry Lucchino will preview the television advertisement on the
big screens at Fenway today. State officials will also set up a booth at the
historic park to help teach residents about the landmark health care insurance
law.

Most residents would face tax penalties if they fail to sign up for health
insurance by the July 1 deadline. The state would require health care coverage
costing roughly $159 a month for those currently uninsured. Employers also must
make sure their health insurance complies with the state's standards.

Officials would not provide details about the advertisement or discuss how the
campaign came about, but according to a source who saw one of the ads it
featured real people talking about their health issues.

Roughly 372,000 state residents don't have health insurance, although 70,000
residents have signed up for Commonwealth Care, a health insurance program meant
for residents making three times the federal poverty level or less a year.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             166 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 20, 2017 Friday

ADA asks Congress to amend McCarran-Ferguson Act in ACA legislation

LENGTH: 403  words

DATELINE: New York



 Chicago: American Dental Association has issued the following news release:



 The Association is requesting that Congress include provisions of H.R. 372 -- a
bill that would amend the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945 -- in future legislation
affecting the Affordable Care Act.





 In a letter to U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan and Democratic
Leader Nancy Pelosi, ADA President Gary L. Roberts and Executive Director
Kathleen T. O'Loughlin urged legislators to include the bill, which would
authorize the Federal Trade Commission and Justice Department to enforce federal
antitrust laws against health insurance companies engaged in anticompetitive
conduct.



 Drs. Roberts and O'Loughlin noted that passage of the bill would help
"interject more competition" into the insurance marketplace.



 "When competition is not robust, consumers are more likely to face higher
prices and less likely to benefit from innovation and variety in the
marketplace," they wrote.



 H.R. 372, which was introduced Jan. 10 by Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., "would not
interfere with the states' ability to maintain and enforce their own insurance
regulations, antitrust statutes, and consumer protection laws. Because states
vary in their enforcement efforts, the impact of repeal on health insurance
companies would differ from state to state. This is no different from the
situation faced by other businesses," wrote Drs. Roberts and O'Loughlin.



 The ADA has long contended the ability to collude on payments gives health
insurance companies an unfair competitive advantage.



 In April 2016, the Association submitted written testimony to the Senate
Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust, competition policy and consumer rights,
urging committee members to reexamine the antitrust exemption enjoyed by health
insurance companies as a result of the 1945 McCarran-Ferguson law.



 "The current debate regarding health care reform requires serious consideration
of any and all means to introduce competition and make health insurance
affordable for all Americans," wrote the Association.



 "An important step toward achieving these objectives is eliminating the
outdated antitrust exemption that grants health insurers special status, and
permits them to ignore the competitive rules that apply to every other U.S.
business."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             167 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 20, 2017 Friday

ADA asks Congress to amend McCarran-Ferguson Act in ACA legislation

LENGTH: 403  words

DATELINE: New York



 Chicago: American Dental Association has issued the following news release:



 The Association is requesting that Congress include provisions of H.R. 372 -- a
bill that would amend the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945 -- in future legislation
affecting the Affordable Care Act.





 In a letter to U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan and Democratic
Leader Nancy Pelosi, ADA President Gary L. Roberts and Executive Director
Kathleen T. O'Loughlin urged legislators to include the bill, which would
authorize the Federal Trade Commission and Justice Department to enforce federal
antitrust laws against health insurance companies engaged in anticompetitive
conduct.



 Drs. Roberts and O'Loughlin noted that passage of the bill would help
"interject more competition" into the insurance marketplace.



 "When competition is not robust, consumers are more likely to face higher
prices and less likely to benefit from innovation and variety in the
marketplace," they wrote.



 H.R. 372, which was introduced Jan. 10 by Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., "would not
interfere with the states' ability to maintain and enforce their own insurance
regulations, antitrust statutes, and consumer protection laws. Because states
vary in their enforcement efforts, the impact of repeal on health insurance
companies would differ from state to state. This is no different from the
situation faced by other businesses," wrote Drs. Roberts and O'Loughlin.



 The ADA has long contended the ability to collude on payments gives health
insurance companies an unfair competitive advantage.



 In April 2016, the Association submitted written testimony to the Senate
Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust, competition policy and consumer rights,
urging committee members to reexamine the antitrust exemption enjoyed by health
insurance companies as a result of the 1945 McCarran-Ferguson law.



 "The current debate regarding health care reform requires serious consideration
of any and all means to introduce competition and make health insurance
affordable for all Americans," wrote the Association.



 "An important step toward achieving these objectives is eliminating the
outdated antitrust exemption that grants health insurers special status, and
permits them to ignore the competitive rules that apply to every other U.S.
business."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             168 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Commercial-News (Danville, Illinois)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 5, 2013 Saturday

Session to discuss health care law set

BYLINE: Commercial-News, Danville, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 385 words


Oct. 05--DANVILLE -- For those who still need information about the Affordable
Care Act, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois will present a session on Tuesday.

The one-hour meeting will start at 10 a.m. Tuesday on the second floor at
Vermilion Advantage, 28 W. North St.

The meeting is open to everyone, not just Blue Cross Blue Shield members.
However, space is limited and people need to register in advance.

The new health care law became law in 2010 to improve the health care system. It
aims to provide access to health insurance to more people, make it easy to shop
for and buy health insurance and, over time, lower the cost of care.

At the educational session, people will learn: what actions they may want to
take; how the new law will benefit individuals who already have insurance, don't
have insurance, or were denied coverage due to a pre-existing condition; how to
shop and buy coverage on the new health insurance exchange websites; and how to
get help paying for health insurance monetary subsidies for eligible people.

People will learn about requirements to get coverage and the penalty for not
getting coverage.

Some parts of the law are in place now, and many more become effective on Jan.
1. People may begin to shop for an insurance plan on a health insurance exchange
website now.

People may view and compare the health plan options on the Health Insurance
Marketplace and enroll in their choice of 2014 health coverage now through March
31.

Dec. 15 is the deadline for coverage that takes effect Jan. 1.

A grassroots organization, Be Covered Illinois, has been formed to engage,
educate, and enroll the uninsured. In addition to providing a bilingual website,
informational materials, and a text campaign, Be Covered Illinois also has
launched a bilingual consumer education hotline at (888) 809-2796. Consumers can
call this toll-free number Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. for more
information about requirements of the new federal health care law.

To register To reserve your place at this educational session, call (866)
755-7326. Space is limited. Learn more about the law at
www.becoveredillinois.org and www.healthcare.gov.

___ (c)2013 the Commercial-News (Danville, Ill.) Visit the Commercial-News
(Danville, Ill.) at www.commercial-news.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131005-DQ-Session-to-discuss-health-care-law-set-1005-20131005

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DQ


                         Copyright 2013 Commercial-News


                             169 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday

Health insurance exchange dies for 2011

BYLINE: Bobby Harrison, Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 826 words


April 03--JACKSON -- A state health insurance exchange, a rare piece of the
health care reform supported by both President Barack Obama and Gov. Haley
Barbour, died during the 2011 session of the Mississippi Legislature.

Although the Legislature is still in session, it is not likely to revive the
bill to establish an health insurance exchange in Mississippi. The legislation
died last week when House and Senate leaders could not reach a compromise on the
differences between the bills passed in the two chambers.

The exchanges are a key part of the controversial federal health care law passed
in 2010. Under the new law, people will be able to buy health insurance through
exchanges established in each state.

Aaron Sisk, senior staff attorney with the Mississippi Department of Insurance,
has described the exchanges as "a marketplace for health insurance ... a
one-stop shop."

Presumably, health insurance will be cheaper in the exchanges because the large
volume of customers will drive down costs.

States can either set up their own exchanges or leave it to the federal
government to establish one.

House Insurance Chairman Walter Robinson, D-Bolton, said the state needs to
create its own exchange.

"Mississippi has had a history of the federal government doing things for us,"
Robinson said. "We should create our own."

Robinson predicted that goal can be accomplished during the 2012 session after
the 2011 elections.

"If I am back, I have almost committed myself during the first two or three
weeks to solving this," Robinson said.

Under both bills, the governing board of the exchange would consist of people in
the insurance and health care industries, and consumer advocates, though the two
chambers differed over the exact makeup of the board.

Plus, they disagreed over who would appoint the board members. The House gave
appointments to the lieutenant governor, speaker and governor. The Senate
version gave that authority to the governor and the state insurance
commissioner.

The primary obstacle to a compromise this session was oversight of the board. In
the legislation that passed the House, the board that governed the exchange
would be a state agency. The Senate legislation had the board as a nonprofit,
private entity.

Senate Insurance Chairman Buck Clarke, R-Hollandale, said he and the Senate
negotiators were willing to put provisions in the bill to ensure oversight of
the board, but he saw no reason to make it a state agency.

"It was kind of disappointing we could not reach an agreement after the work put
forth by the Department of Insurance and the our study committee," Clarke said.

He said federal officials had pointed to the bill as it passed the Senate as a
model of how the exchanges should be set up.

Robinson said he was not insistent that the board be a state agency, but he
wanted sufficient oversight. Under the new health care law, the federal
government will provide funds to the states to set up the exchanges, but they
eventually are supposed to be financed through a fee or tax on the participating
insurance companies.

Robinson said the Legislature has a duty to ensure that the exchange board does
not overspend on items like furniture and staff because that will cost taxpayers
more.

A study committee, which includes legislators, will continue to work on the
issue in advance of tackling it again during the 2012 session.

The state already has received a $1 million grant to work on establishing the
exchange. While the goal was to have the framework in place this session and put
in more details during the 2012 session, both Clarke and Robinson said there
would be time during the 2012 session to do both.

At that point, Barbour, who has been a big supporter of the health insurance
exchange, will no longer be in office. His term ends in early January.

Barbour has joined a number of other state officials from throughout the nation
in filing lawsuits that question parts of the health care law. The lawsuits'
primary target has been the mandate for most Americans to have insurance.

Barbour, on the other hand, has been a proponent of the health insurance
exchanges for several years.

He said it would allow small businesses to get better rates on health insurance
for their employees. Plus, under Barbour's plans, as in the federal law, some
small businesses would get tax breaks for providing coverage.

The governor has said that even if parts of the federal law are struck down by
the courts, he hopes some version of the health insurance exchanges would remain
in effect.

Contact Bobby Harrison at (601) 353-3119 or bobby.harrison@journalinc.com

To see more of the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal or to subscribe to the
newspaper, go to http://www.djournal.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Northeast
Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110403-TP-Health-insurance-exchange-dies-for-2011-0403-20110403

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TP


               Copyright 2011 Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal


                             170 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 6, 1989, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts Speaker Holds Off Insurance Ban

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 4


The Massachusetts House voted Wednesday to delay for a year the key provision of
the state's universal health insurance law after turning back an attempt to
repeal it.

The Speaker of the House, George Keverian, a Democrat, quit the rostrum
Wednesday and took the floor to offer an amendment to preserve the program, a
centerpiece of Gov. Michael S. Dukakis's Presidential campaign last year.

Mr. Keverian postponed the effective date of the legislation until 1993, so as
to save its key provision, that businesses with six or more employees provide
health insurance worth $1,680 to each worker.

The bill goes next to the Senate. where it has strong backing and is expected to
be passed.

Study of Law's Financing Due

State Representative Peter Forman, a Republican, had won preliminary House
approval in July to repeal the key provision, arguing that the plan would cost
$400 million to $1 billion and the added burden could harm businesses.

Under the plan, the state would subsidize health insurance for workers whose
employers chose not to buy coverage for their employees. It would also help
provide insurance to the self-employed and to businesses with fewer than six
employees.

Mr. Keverian argued against repeal and pleaded instead for a delay to study the
law's financing. The Democratic-controlled House agreed, 96-53.

Insurance for the Jobless

The Keverian amendment would also keep in place a provision that would take
effect next year, providing insurance to jobless workers collecting unemployment
compensation. That plan would be financed by a $16.80-a-year fee that businesses
with six or more workers would pay for each employee.

The plan has already provided health insurance to about 77,000 of the estimated
600,000 people who did not have insurance when the plan was made law last year.

Of the 77,000, 17,000 are people moving off welfare into jobs that do not
provide health insurance, as well as disabled adults and some children with
serious disabilities. The 60,000 others are college students who were required
this school year to have health insurance either through their parents or group
plans through schools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                             171 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             January 6, 2012 Friday

Health insurance companies' profits increase after 'affordable care act'

BYLINE: Blaze Bullock Deseret News

LENGTH: 337 words


Health insurance companies spent millions of dollars in an effort to prevent
passage of the U.S. health care overhaul two years ago because they thought it
would raise costs and disrupt coverage. Those companies have had their biggest
profit margins since the recession began, according to a Bloomberg government
study. Insurance companies recorded their largest quarterly net gains of the
past 10 years since the law was signed in 2010, said Peter Gosselin, the author
of the study and senior health care analyst for Bloomberg government.

During that time, the Standard and Poor's 500 Managed Health-Care Index went up
36 percent. Health insurers contributed $86.2 million to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce to resist the law, according to Bloomberg. "The industry that was the
loudest, most persistent critic of this law, the industry whose analysts and
executives predicted it would suffer immensely because of the law, has thrived,"
Gosselin said. Health insurance companies saw their average profit margins swell
from 6.88 percent in the 18 months preceding the overhaul to 8.24 percent in the
six quarters since. America's Health Insurance Plans, the industry's lobbyist in
Washington, still says on its website that the law will cause rates to increase
and people to lose their health insurance. Along with the new profits health
insurance companies are achieving is a change in their source of revenue.
Commercial business now accounts for the smallest amount of revenue in more than
two decades, according to the Bloomberg study. Commercial business accounts for
less than 50 percent of the companies' combined revenue. Part of the reason for
that is the companies' growing investments in Medicaid and Medicare, according
to the Bloomberg report. Quarterly revenue from Medicare, the $525 billion
federal health program for the aged and disabled, rose one third, to $16.39
billion, for the four insurers that reported their figures, according to the
study. Revenue from Medicaid more than doubled to $4.11 billion.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             172 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                           Crain's Cleveland Business

                                 March 14, 2011

Hospitals back feds in Va. health reform case

BYLINE: REBECCA VESELY

SECTION: Pg. 11 Vol. 32

LENGTH: 233  words


Six major hospital associations have filed an amicus brief in support of the
federal government in the case brought by the state of Virginia to repeal the
Obama administration's health care law.

The law's mandate that all Americans carry health insurance is lawful because,
whether they purchase health insurance or not, everyone participates in the
health care system, argue the American Hospital Association, National
Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems, Association of American
Medical Colleges, Catholic Health Association, Federation of American Hospitals
and National Association of Children's Hospitals.

"By forgoing health insurance, individuals simply shift the burden of their
health care payments to others," the hospital groups wrote in the brief. "The
health care market is unique in this respect."

Last December, a federal judge agreed with Virginia Attorney General Ken
Cuccinelli in finding the insurance mandate in the health reform law
unconstitutional. The case is now on appeal.

Along with the hospital groups, the main lobbying group for insurers, America's
Health Insurance Plans, or AHIP, also defended the individual mandate, in a
separate brief filed with the court.

"Market reforms that are not coupled with an individual mandate are likely to
lead to disruption and instability in the health insurance market," AHIP wrote
in its brief in support of neither party.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CL


                      Copyright 2011 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             173 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

New health care law questions answered

LENGTH: 1318  words


It was an information-packed Saturday, as folks gathered for a resource fair and
speakers on aging and caregiving. The Oct. 19 event took place at Warner Park
Community Recreation Center, and was hosted by the North/Eastside Senior
Coalition and sponsored by the Dane County Caregiver Support Program. Workshop
titles included "How to choose senior housing," "How to communicate with someone
who has dementia," "Practical skills: How to lift and position safely," and "How
to care for yourself." Exhibits featured information provided by more than 20
community-based organizations that support caregiving in Dane County.


"Ask the Experts Sessions" offered folks the opportunity to discuss "All Things
Legal" with Elder Law Attorney Julie Short of Haskins Law LLC, and "Untangling
Medicare/Medicaid, plus the new Affordable Health Care Law and HIRSP," with
Donna C. Bryant, Insurance and Benefits Education Services.
Attorney Short, who has more than 20 years experience, was previously the
Director of Aging and Disability Services for Easter Seals Wisconsin, and worked
with CWAG (Coalition of Wisconsin Aging Groups.) She handles cases involving
public benefits, guardianship, protective placement, long-term care, insurance,
disability, and trusts and estates.
Short gave out a handout sheet highlighting five things everyone should know
about health care reform, and listing covered services for adults (see sidebar.)
One of the points of importance: "Starting on October 1, 2013, the Federal
Government will operate a 'Health Insurance Marketplace' in the state of
Wisconsin which will help those without affordable health insurance to buy
health plans, with coverage taking effect as early as January 1, 2014. The
Health Insurance Marketplace will be available to qualified citizens who are not
offered health insurance through their workplace or are offered health insurance
through their workplace that does not meet certain minimum standards."
Donna Bryant provided the latest updates and information on medical coverage
options. Prior to her retirement, Bryant was the lead counselor for the Medigap
Helpline and helped coordinate the Wisconsin State Health Insurance Program
(SHIP). Through her work with the Wisconsin Insurance Commission and auditing
insurance agencies, she helped bring about key consumer protection regulations.

Bryant clarified some of the more confusing aspects of the new health care
options, and emphasized key dates to take action. She began by stressing that
people on Medicare are not impacted by the changes with the Affordable Health
Care law, reviewing that "Medicare is health insurance for people 65 or older,
people under 65 with certain disabilities, and people of any age with End-Stage
Renal Disease (ESRD)- permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis or a kidney
transplant."

"Medicare is not part of the Health Insurance Marketplace," Bryant indicated.
Furthermore, there has been confusion surrounding the Oct. 1 sign up date, which
is not for people on Medicare. As a result, she indicated, many people who get
their medical coverage through Medicare "have been anxious, unnecessarily so."

Timing is critical
For folks not on Medicare, it's paramount to pay attention to the sign-up
deadlines if the plan is to obtain health insurance through the Health Insurance
Marketplace. The Health Insurance Marketplace began October 1, and it runs
through March 31 of next year.
"If you want your insurance coverage to start January 1st, then you have to have
that application in by December 15 (2013) in order for the insurance to start
Jan. 1 (2014)," she said.
Bryant said that enrollment in the individual market closes March 31. "If you
get an application in in March," she explained, "your insurance will begin April
1."
"If they do not get their application in by March 31, they will have to wait
until the Marketplace opens at the end of 2014 for their coverage to begin," she
elucidated. Going forward starting in 2014, the annual open enrollment period
starts October 15 and ends on December 7.
The Silver Plan is special
Another piece that's critical when it comes to the Marketplace, Bryant asserted,
is what's referred to as the premium reduction factor. It's very important to
know that this is tied to a particular tier plan only, not to all four levels of
coverage.
The cost-sharing reduction is based on incomes at or below 250% of the federal
poverty level ($58,875 annually for a family of four in 2013) and those
receiving the Premium Tax Credit, but applies only to people that pick the
Silver-Level Plan. It does not apply to the other plan options (Bronze, Gold, or
Platinum.)
"Eligibility for reduced cost premiums (based on income) only applies to the
Silver (Level) Plan," she reiterated. "It's not just for any plan you choose."

You can sign up for insurance online or by phone, with the Marketplace
application available in English and Spanish electronically and on paper. If you
choose the online version, you find out right then and there if you're eligible
for a reduced-cost and how much you'll be paying each month for insurance
coverage.
"The computer's doing the computations as you put the information in," Bryant
said. "It's looking at the information and your potential eligibility for other
benefit programs."

The way the system is set up in Wisconsin, when you apply online, it's a live
app that automatically screens you for eligibility for other social programs
such as food shares, Medical Assistance/Medicaid, CHIP (health insurance for
kids), etc.
The number to call is 1-800-318-2596 or HealthCare.gov/subscribe.
Beware: those on dialysis
With the new nationwide insurance law, one thing that's happening is that the
special high-risk insurance policy (Health Insurance Risk-Sharing Plan) that's
been available for people in Wisconsin is being lost.
"Theoretically, the thought is that you don't need a high-risk plan if no one
can be barred from receiving insurance based on their health anymore," Bryant
said. "The unique problem for individuals that are now on HIRSP along with
Medicare is that the Marketplace was not designed for Medicare people, not
designed with people on Medicare..." Medicare supplement policies are not
subject to the Affordable Health Care Act, they can still have a pre-existing
waiting period and they can still deny coverage.
The last day Wisconsinites will be covered under HIRSP is December 31, 2013. As
a result, the folks who've been covered under HIRSP will have to sign up for
some other insurance, or risk a penalty as well as huge medical expenses.
This is of particular concern for people that get kidney dialysis three times a
week at a cost of about $1,000 each time.
Based on 30+ years in the insurance industry, Bryant advises those getting
dialysis that are going off of HIRSP, do not sign up for coverage under the
Marketplace. "A person on kidney dialysis is safer in the long run with Medicare
and a Medicare Supplement Plan," she attests. (In terms of particular Medicare
Supplement plans, she does point out that, "If you're on dialysis, you are not
eligible to enroll in a Medicare Advantage Plan.")
She helps ferret out the facts on this, using actual cost figures. For those on
dialysis, "Medicare pays 80%, and the patient is responsible for 20%. This comes
out to $600 per week, $2,400 per month the person pays. $28,800 out of pocket
expenses (a year), just for dialysis, and that's not taking into consideration
anything else. So that's the number a patient on kidney dialysis can use for
comparing insurance plans and deciding..."
Typically, Medicare supplements will run anywhere from $250 to $660 per month,
depending on what the insurance all covers. She gave an example of one Medicare
supplement policy that costs $400 per month, or $4,800 per year "which will
cover (the) $28,800, plus hospitalization, lab work, etc."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             174 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            April 19, 1994, Tuesday

The lesson in failed insurance plan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 8

LENGTH: 356 words


The failure of Georgia's effort to help the poor get health insurance should be
instructive to those engaged in the national health- care reform debate.
Georgia's experience shows that doing the minimum just won't cut it.

The Basic Health Plan was supposed to offer limited health-care benefits to
individuals with annual incomes of less than $ 17,000 or families of four
earning less than $ 35,000 a year. The price of the policy is $ 74 per month.

But a year after the program started, only two insurance companies have opted to
take part. And fewer than 150 Georgians have signed up for coverage. That's
disappointing, but it should come as no surprise.

Insurers are in business to make profits. Therefore, no one should expect them
to flock to a program where the prospect for profits is nonexistent.

Economics also explains why more eligible consumers aren't taking advantage of
the plan. Getting even minimal health insurance for $ 74 a month might sound
like quite a bargain to most of us. But to the working poor, spending $ 74 a
month can be a big decision. It can mean cutting back on necessities.

Many low-income families will resolve the question the way they always have:
Take a chance that health insurance won't be needed. If a health problem comes
up, put off dealing with it as long as possible. When things get bad enough, go
to an emergency room, where they'll treat you first and worry about payment
later.

State Insurance Commissioner Tim Ryles had warned that the basic plan would not
do the job. The Legislature approved the plan in response to Ryles's call for
comprehensive statewide health insurance reform. However, the lawmakers weren't
interested in going as far as Ryles said they need to go.

With the failure of the basic plan, Ryles should be able to push the Legislature
to go further.

But providing coverage to the uninsured poor and solving other problems that
constitute the national health-care crisis requires reform even more
comprehensive than Georgia's insurance commissioner advocates. A
government-financed, single-payer system beats any of the half measures now on
the table.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941110060

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                             175 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            October 7, 2012, Sunday

Making sure you understand the health care you sign up for

BYLINE: Sen. Jay Rockefeller

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P3C

LENGTH: 658 words


IF you've ever had to decide on a health insurance plan, you probably spent days
with stacks of paper all over the dining room table trying to sift through fine
print that seems like it's written in Latin.

Comparing plans is absurdly complicated. It's hard to think about the types of
services you might need in the future, and insurance companies don't make it
easy on consumers to wade through pages of documents that don't really tell you
what's covered.

Starting Sept. 23, all of this changed. Because of a new consumer protection in
the health reform law based on a bill I introduced, insurance companies must
clearly explain their coverage plans and make them easy-to-understand. When
spending money on a new purchase, you probably examine all the options,
comparison shop, and try to make an informed decision. You should be able to do
the same thing before choosing a health insurance plan. Finally, it is now
easier for families to compare and understand plans, and then choose the one
that best fits your needs.

Now, health insurance companies must provide standard summaries of their
benefits and coverage so that you can easily look at the differences between
plans. This will include something like our "nutrition labels" on packaged food.
Your health insurance plan will now have to provide you with a Coverage Facts
label so you can get a sense of the out-of-pocket costs you will have to pay for
routine medical care like office visits, lab tests, and prescription drugs as
well as for complex medical treatments like surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation
treatment. And you will have a glossary of commonly used terms like "deductible"
and "co-payment" so that you can track all the health-care jargon. Go to
healthcare.gov to find these explanations with each insurance option. Gone are
the days when you had to work to decipher what your health plans actually cover
and at what cost.

One of the most important benefits of the health reform law is that it stands up
to insurance companies and puts you - the consumer - first. Health insurance
companies can no longer take advantage of you - charging more money for less
service, hiding behind loopholes and excuses to deny benefits you paid for, and
making your plans overly complicated.

I know the health-reform law isn't very popular. Many have worked to demonize
the terms "Obamacare" and "health reform." But when people are asked about
specific provisions in the law, they are often very much in favor of them -
covering pre-existing conditions, being able to keep young adults on parents'
health insurance until age 26, and making sure insurance companies spend more of
their premium dollars on actual medical care and less on seven figure salaries
for health insurance executives and extravagant marble halls in fancy health
insurance offices, just to name a few. In fact, a Kaiser Health Tracking Poll
showed that requiring insurance companies to provide easy-to-read summaries of
their benefits is the most popular piece in the health reform law - 84 percent
of people really liked that new benefit.

I know how deeply frustrated people have been by the confusing information they
get from insurance companies, and many are sick and tired of guessing what their
insurance company will or won't cover.

I'm proud to have worked to push the Administration to make sure this rule stays
strong by defending consumers and rejecting attempts to weaken any of these
protections for you.

In August, because of another provision in the health reform law that I wrote,
West Virginians started receiving checks if their health insurance companies
overcharged them. And now, Americans are also able to get easy-to-read
explanations of their benefits.

You deserve to be treated fairly by health insurance companies, so that you can
get the best care you need at the lowest cost. Because of the health reform law,
we're finally seeing that happen.

Rockefeller is West Virginia's senior U.S. senator.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Charleston Newspapers


                             176 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 14, 1992, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BARE-BONES HEALTH-CARE PLAN IS INSUFFICIENT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 378 words


A new state law that seeks to make health insurance more affordable for small
businesses and their employees marks yet another modest step toward piecemeal
health-insurance reforms in Missouri. Though this proposal is welcome, it will
provide no relief for hundreds of thousands of working poor Missourians who have
inadequate health insurance.  The intent of the new law is to bring health care
to more of the state's small businesses that have between three and 25 workers.
Up to now, premiums for such insurance have been too expensive, especially when
it came to coverage of a chronic illness, such as a heart condition. The new law
will help businesses lower the cost of insuring such workers by placing them in
a large health insurance pool.  Gov. John Ashcroft praised the new law and a
separate health-care cost-disclosure provision. He says consumers will now be
able to make ''wise and economical'' decisions due to the state's requirement
that hospitals disclose the cost of various procedures and their treatment
success rates. The information is supposed to persuade consumers to shop around
for less expensive care and thereby help reduce medical inflation. But numerous
factors beyond cost dictate where people seek medical care and whom they choose
to treat them. Cost of the care isn't always as important as the expertise of
the doctors providing the treatment and the reputation of the medical facility
where the care is given.  The health-insurance provision of the law might help
between 50,000 and 100,000 workers in a state where a minimum of 600,000 people
have inadequate health insurance. The premiums are certain to be higher than
premiums paid by most Missourians. In addition, the law gives small businesses
the option of offering scaled-back policies as a way to keep down the cost of
health insurance.  This program probably pleases those who say a little health
insurance is better than none. But Missouri has to do more. It can't continue to
ignore the fact that many of its working poor, who won't be helped by this
program, still lack the means to cover the cost of serious illnesses. Their
plight is best addressed by a universal health-insurance system that emphasizes
prevention and assures care for all Missourians.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             177 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              May 26, 2014 Monday

Ky. Exchange Unconnected to Health Law

LENGTH: 719  words


Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell wants to repeal the Affordable Care
Act, but he would not say Friday what that would mean for the 413,000
Kentuckians who have health insurance through the state's health care
exchange.McConnell told reporters that the fate of Kynect - Kentucky's state-run
health insurance exchange - is not linked to the federal health care law. But
the exchange would not exist if not for the federal law that created it.Asked if
a repeal of the health care law would mean Kynect should be disbanded, McConnell
said: "I think that's unconnected to my comments about the overall
question.""What I would have done instead is first of all tear down the walls,
the 50 separate silos in which health insurance is controlled, and pit all the
health insurance companies against each other in a national competitive market,"
he said. "Competition almost always works to keep prices down and quality
up."McConnell's Democratic opponent, Kentucky Secretary of State Alison
Lundergan Grimes, has said she opposes "taking away insurance that 400,000
Kentuckians just recently got access to." But the Democratic nominee has
declined to say whether she would have voted for the law had she been in office
when it was approved in 2010, saying only she would work to fix the law if
elected.The comments underscore the political sensitivity the federal health
care law, sometimes known as "Obamacare," presents to candidates from both
parties.Some parts of the law are popular in Kentucky, and McConnell doesn't
want to alienate constituents who now have health insurance in one of the
nation's poorest states.

But the law and the president whose name it evokes remain unpopular in Kentucky
- thus Grimes' rhetorical dancing over whether she would have voted yes when it
passed four years ago.McConnell, who would become Senate majority leader if he
is re-elected and Republicans gain six seats in the November elections, and
Grimes, the Democrats' prized recruit, are battling it out in one of the most
closely-watched contests in the nation.Kentucky Democrats have worked hard to
separate Kynect from the disastrous rollout of the federal health care exchange,
in which website failures made it difficult to enroll in the program. Many of
those problems have since been fixed.In Kentucky - one of only two Southern
states where Democrats control the House - some Democratic candidates have begun
to refer to the law as "Beshearcare," a reference to Kentucky's popular
Democratic Gov. Steve Beshear. Republicans control the Kentucky Senate."I don't
know if it's something our candidates will run on, but what I think it shows to
the people of Kentucky is that Kentucky Democrats are just that. We are
Kentuckians. And we don't do things maybe the way Washington, D.C. does," said
state Rep. Sannie Overly, who is overseeing state House Democratic candidates as
chairwoman of the House Democratic Caucus.It's unclear if the strategy will work
for Grimes in a state where "Obamacare" remains unpopular but Kynect is embraced
as successful. Friday, in a joint news conference with fellow Republican U.S.
Sen. Rand Paul, McConnell pointed to a report from the Congressional Budget
Office that said the Affordable Care Act reduced the number of uninsured people
nationwide to 30 million from 40 million. "What is the cost-benefit ratio of
this kind of destruction, the impact on our 16 percent of the economy, to have
such a marginal reduction at the end of the day?" he said. "I think people of
this state are entitled to know the answer to the question, how do you feel
about it?"Grimes, meanwhile, has been targeting Republicans who supported Matt
Bevin in Tuesday's Republican primary. McConnell easily defeated the tea-party
backed Bevin to win the GOP nomination."I hope you will take the time to get to
know who I am and my true positions," Grimes wrote in an open letter to
Republican voters. The letter said Grimes supports closing "tax loopholes that
encourage big corporations to ship our good-paying Kentucky jobs overseas."After
the news conference, a McConnell spokeswoman said that if the Affordable Care
Act is repealed, "Kentucky should decide for itself whether to keep Kynect or
set up a different marketplace." © 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by
SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             178 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    November 29, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

OHIP limits on foreign bills aren't legal ex-counsel says

BYLINE: BY JOSEPH HALL TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 463 words


Ontario residents should expect the provincial health insurance plan to pay the
bulk of their out-of-country medical expenses despite a new policy limiting
foreign coverage, OHIP's former legal counsel says.

Perry Brodkin, who was OHIP's lawyer for 17 years prior to 1990, says a new
ministry policy limiting payments to $ 400 a day on a traveller's foreign
hospital bill can be easily circumvented.

So, too, can the same policy's limit of $ 200 a day for out-of-country elective
treatment where similar procedures exist in Ontario, he said.

Prior to the new policy, the Ontario Health Insurance Plan would usually pay 100
per cent of the former and 75 per cent of the latter.

The change "has no status in law," Brodkin said of New Democratic Health
Minister Frances Lankin's Oct. 1 policy.

"And if OHIP won't pay for it (medical expenses), then the person has legal
rights and remedies with respect to that decision."

Brodkin said the original health insurance law has not been altered since 1972
and does not put limits on the amount of money or percentage of foreign hospital
bills OHIP should pay.

"What this means is that since the new policy has not been enshrined in the laws
of the province, then the Health Services Appeals Board is entitled to disregard
or ignore the policy," he said.

"There were no dollar limits or percentage limits placed in the original
legislation because these cases were meant to be dealt with on a case-by-case
basis and it's a fundamental principle of justice that people get their day in
court."

"What should be expected is a fair hearing (before the board) . . . and if the
case is properly presented, then there is an excellent chance of success," says
Brodkin, who is now a volunteer bar examination instructor with the Law Society
of Upper Canada.

He left OHIP to avoid a transfer from Toronto to new offices in Kingston.

Brodkin said the thousands of Canadians flying south this winter need not pay
the "astronomical" private health insurance rates to augment their OHIP
coverage.

Gerry Burns, a Blue Cross official, has warned vacationers to ask tough
questions when buying private health insurance and to clarify every aspect of
the coverage.

At issue are the policies' exemptions, which could mean that people with a
previous medical condition such as diabetes or heart disease might find
themselves without coverage and having to pay U.S. hospitals cash up front in a
related medical emergency.

They would then have to apply to the appeals board for repayment.

An official with the board said no one has contested a claim since the new
policy was issued and she could not say which way the panel would rule.

Health ministry legal specialists could not be reached for comment yesterday.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             179 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             May 24, 2014 Saturday

McConnell: Ky. exchange unconnected to health law

LENGTH: 719  words


Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell wants to repeal the Affordable Care
Act, but he would not say Friday what that would mean for the 413,000
Kentuckians who have health insurance through the state's health care exchange.
McConnell told reporters that the fate of Kynect - Kentucky's state-run health
insurance exchange - is not linked to the federal health care law. But the
exchange would not exist if not for the federal law that created it.Asked if a
repeal of the health care law would mean Kynect should be disbanded, McConnell
said: "I think that's unconnected to my comments about the overall
question.""What I would have done instead is first of all tear down the walls,
the 50 separate silos in which health insurance is controlled, and pit all the
health insurance companies against each other in a national competitive market,"
he said. "Competition almost always works to keep prices down and quality
up."McConnell's Democratic opponent, Kentucky Secretary of State Alison
Lundergan Grimes, has said she opposes "taking away insurance that 400,000
Kentuckians just recently got access to." But the Democratic nominee has
declined to say whether she would have voted for the law had she been in office
when it was approved in 2010, saying only she would work to fix the law if
elected.The comments underscore the political sensitivity the federal health
care law, sometimes known as "Obamacare," presents to candidates from both
parties.Some parts of the law are popular in Kentucky, and McConnell doesn't
want to alienate constituents who now have health insurance in one of the
nation's poorest states.

But the law and the president whose name it evokes remain unpopular in Kentucky
- thus Grimes' rhetorical dancing over whether she would have voted yes when it
passed four years ago.McConnell, who would become Senate majority leader if he
is re-elected and Republicans gain six seats in the November elections, and
Grimes, the Democrats' prized recruit, are battling it out in one of the most
closely-watched contests in the nation.Kentucky Democrats have worked hard to
separate Kynect from the disastrous rollout of the federal health care exchange,
in which website failures made it difficult to enroll in the program. Many of
those problems have since been fixed.In Kentucky - one of only two Southern
states where Democrats control the House - some Democratic candidates have begun
to refer to the law as "Beshearcare," a reference to Kentucky's popular
Democratic Gov. Steve Beshear. Republicans control the Kentucky Senate."I don't
know if it's something our candidates will run on, but what I think it shows to
the people of Kentucky is that Kentucky Democrats are just that. We are
Kentuckians. And we don't do things maybe the way Washington, D.C. does," said
state Rep. Sannie Overly, who is overseeing state House Democratic candidates as
chairwoman of the House Democratic Caucus.It's unclear if the strategy will work
for Grimes in a state where "Obamacare" remains unpopular but Kynect is embraced
as successful. Friday, in a joint news conference with fellow Republican U.S.
Sen. Rand Paul, McConnell pointed to a report from the Congressional Budget
Office that said the Affordable Care Act reduced the number of uninsured people
nationwide to 30 million from 40 million."What is the cost-benefit ratio of this
kind of destruction, the impact on our 16 percent of the economy, to have such a
marginal reduction at the end of the day?" he said. "I think people of this
state are entitled to know the answer to the question, how do you feel about
it?"Grimes, meanwhile, has been targeting Republicans who supported Matt Bevin
in Tuesday's Republican primary. McConnell easily defeated the tea-party backed
Bevin to win the GOP nomination."I hope you will take the time to get to know
who I am and my true positions," Grimes wrote in an open letter to Republican
voters. The letter said Grimes supports closing "tax loopholes that encourage
big corporations to ship our good-paying Kentucky jobs overseas."After the news
conference, a McConnell spokeswoman said that if the Affordable Care Act is
repealed, "Kentucky should decide for itself whether to keep Kynect or set up a
different marketplace." © 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by SyndiGate
Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             180 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

Budget buster // CBO estimate on Obamacare at $1.76 trillion

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 549 words


COLUMN: IN OUR OPINION

Two years ago, just before Congress narrowly approved the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, colloquially known as Obamacare, we pointed out that the
legislation relied upon some duplicitous math to tamp down the cost.
Specifically, President Barack Obama and Democrats crafted legislation that
financed six years' worth of reforms with 10 years of taxes, a maneuver that
enabled them to claim the new law would cost $940 billion over the coming
decade.

On Tuesday, the Congressional Budget Office released a revised cost estimate,
using its 10-year outlook time frame to factor in more of the law's provisions
and their associated costs. The result is startling. The gross cost of Obamacare
from fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2022 is estimated to be a cumulative $1.76
trillion.

To be sure, the CBO report also gives a net cost, which it lists at a mere $1.25
trillion. But half of the "savings" consists of penalty payments by individuals
and businesses who fail to obtain insurance, as well as excise taxes on
high-premium insurance plans. Those billions of dollars ultimately come out of
the pockets of American workers and taxpayers.

As to Obamacare's primary and long-advertised purpose - extending health
insurance coverage to all Americans without it - the CBO report concludes that
the percentage of non-elderly Americans with coverage will go from 82 to percent
this year to 93 percent a decade from now. That means that by 2022, between 20
million and 23 million more Americans will be covered through newly created
insurance exchanges, but roughly the same number will continue to lack any
health insurance coverage.

The CBO report also estimates that between 3 million and 5 million Americans
will have shifted from an employer-provided health insurance plan into some form
of government plan.

These financial and demographic estimates matter because health insurance is not
exempt from economic laws and human nature. Competition and choice tend to
improve quality and drive down cost. But Obamacare, when fully implemented, will
have the opposite effect - exacerbating the nation's slide toward government-run
health insurance.

Later this month, the U.S. Supreme Court will hear an unprecedented
five-and-a-half hours of testimony for and against Mr. Obama's signature
legislation. Defenders of the law will argue, eloquently and with some justice,
that the insurance coverage of millions is at stake. Well, health insurance is
an important and useful thing to have, and extending its benefits to more
Americans is a social and economic good.

But how and why we expand health insurance coverage matters greatly. A principle
more important than copayments and prescription drug coverage is at stake: Does
Congress have the power to arrogate to itself the power to regulate one-sixth of
the nation's economy under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution?

We believe they do not, and expect the Court will strike down key provisions of
Obamacare, in effect telling the legislative and executive branches that they
must find a better way to achieve their policy goals.

If not, prepare for a less-free future, one in which Washington bureaucrats will
tell Americans what coverage they must carry, how much health care they may
consume, and what they must pay for it.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Two years ago, just before Congress narrowly approved the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, colloquially known as Obamacare, we pointed
out that the legislation relied upon some duplicitous math to tamp down the
cost. Specifically, President Barack Obama and Democrats crafted legislation
that financed six years' worth of reforms with 10 years of taxes, a maneuver
that enabled them to claim the new law would cost $940 billion over the coming
decade.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             181 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               September 12, 2011

Almost half of uninsured expect no help from health reform

BYLINE: By Doug Trapp, amednews staff. Posted Sept. 12, 2011.

SECTION: GOVERNMENT

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: Washington



HIGHLIGHT: Polling experts said Americans are not focused on changes scheduled
to begin in 2014 but on the economy and other issues.


 Approximately half of uninsured Americans believe the health system reform law
won't affect their access to health care one way or the other, according to the
Kaiser Family Foundation's August Health Tracking Poll.

While 31% of poll respondents said the law will help them get health care, 47%
said it won't help or hurt their ability to access health care. Another 14% said
the law will hurt their access to care partly because it will require them to
buy health insurance, according to the poll, conducted between Aug. 10 and 15
and released on Aug. 29.

Knowledge gaps also exist regarding health reform, according to the survey. The
law will offer federal subsidies to help people buy coverage through health
insurance exchanges if they earn between one and four times the federal poverty
level. But 32% of poll respondents said the law will not provide such
assistance.

Similarly, 32% of poll respondents said the reform law doesn't include a
Medicaid expansion. In fact, the law is expected to allow approximately 32
million uninsured people to gain coverage beginning in 2014. About half will
become able to enroll in Medicaid as the program's eligibility expands to 133%
of the federal poverty level, and the other half will sign up for new private
plans offered in health insurance exchanges.

Two-thirds of respondents correctly said the law will require nearly all
Americans to obtain health insurance coverage by 2014 or pay a tax penalty.

One interpretation of the poll results is that health reform supporters have
failed to communicate the value of the law, said Kaiser Family Foundation
President and CEO Drew Altman, PhD. However, Altman said any such judgment is
premature. Americans only will understand the law once it actually affects their
health benefits or once they see new reports about how the law is working, he
added.

"It will be 2015 or 2016 before there is a real test of awareness and
affordability," Altman wrote in an Aug. 29 column published with the poll.

"It's very hard to talk to people about future events when things in the short
term aren't going very well for them," said Robert Blendon, ScD, a professor of
health policy and political analysis at the Harvard School of Public Health in
Boston.

Concerns about unemployment and federal deficits have been at the center of
national political debate for most of the summer. Most of the other polling at
the moment is not focusing on the health reform law, Blendon said. "Candidates
are trying to focus on other issues, particularly relating to the economy."

The frequency of health reform-related polls has declined sharply, according to
Pollster.com, a compilation of national polls. In August 2010, national
organizations released 13 surveys of public opinion on the health reform law.
That decreased to one poll -- the Kaiser survey -- in the same month this year.

Blendon said health care probably will take center stage again when political
leaders begin campaigning for the 2012 presidential and congressional elections.

Public opinion of the health reform law has not changed dramatically since the
law was enacted in March 2010, Blendon said. More Americans continue to have an
unfavorable than favorable view of the statute, according to the Kaiser poll.
Forty-four percent had a very or somewhat unfavorable opinion of the law, while
39% said they had a very or somewhat favorable opinion of it.

Uninsured and skeptical

The health system reform law is expected to reduce the nation's uninsured
population by more than half by 2019, but many uninsured people are not
confident the law will help them. Most of the uninsured who were polled have
been without coverage for more than two years. Figures may not add up due to
rounding.
Once implemented, the health reform
law will ...
31%                                                   Help me get health care
14%                                        Hurt my ability to get health care
47%                                                  Not make much difference
7%                                               Don't know/refused to answer
13%                                     Make health insurance more affordable
                                                  and lower health care costs
12%                                      Help me get health insurance, better
                                       access to care or more health security
                                                             through coverage
3%                                                                      Other
4%                                                                 Don't know
7%                                           Force me to buy health insurance
4%                                                   Increase taxes and costs
2%                                              Not provide adequate coverage
2%                                                                      Other

Source: Kaiser Family Foundation, Health Tracking Poll, August
(www.kff.org/kaiserpolls/8217.cfm)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                             182 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

SBSB of Worcester likely to get contract;
State's new health insurance program

BYLINE: Lisa Eckelbecker, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


A state authority will recommend next week that the Small Business Service
Bureau Inc. receive a contract to help run the Commonwealth Choice health
insurance program created under the state's new health care reform law.

The Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority reported yesterday it will
recommend to its board on Feb. 8 that a three-year "sub-connector" contract go
to the SBSB of Worcester.

Under the contract, the SBSB would run a customer service center and handle
administrative details for individuals and employers who are obtaining health
insurance through the Connector authority or other entities.

"They have a proven infra-structure, as well as a technical platform to provide
the services that we need," said Patricia Andriolo-Bull, director of
Commonwealth Choice.

The authority declined yesterday to reveal the dollar value of the contract or
the number of entities seeking the contract, saying that details will become
available at the authority's board meeting next week.

The state's health care reform law, signed last year, calls for all citizens to
have health insurance. The Connector Authority was created to oversee health
insurance for individuals and small businesses.

Low-income people are eligible to buy insurance through a program called
Commonwealth Care. Other individuals and small organizations can buy insurance
through a Commonwealth Choice program. The Connector Authority estimates that
160,000 people in the state may be eligible for insurance under Commonwealth
Choice.

The SBSB is a national organization. Its 50,000 members buy insurance through
the SBSB. Under a contract with the Connector Authority, Ms. Andriolo-Bull said,
the SBSB would verify that applicants are eligible for certain health plans,
process applications and handle billing and payment tasks.

Contact business reporter Lisa Eckelbecker by e-mail at
leckelbecker@telegram.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             183 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   November 18, 1999, Thursday, Home Edition

CAMPAIGN 2000: In Atlanta, Bradley accuses Gore of 'using' poor in Medicaid spat

BYLINE: Ken Foskett, Cox Washington Bureau

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: News; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 665 words

Democrat Bill Bradley accused rival Al Gore Wednesday of using blacks and
Latinos as "political footballs" in his efforts to discredit Bradley's health
care proposal.

Appearing at the Morehouse School of Medicine, Bradley strongly defended his $
65 billion proposal to provide health insurance to the poor against Gore's
criticisms that the plan would adversely affect minorities.

"I don't want a politics that uses people who are poor as political footballs,"
Bradley said. "I am disappointed, quite frankly, that he has chosen to use these
scare tactics."

In recent days, Gore has charged that Bradley's proposal to phase out Medicaid
and allow recipients to join the insurance program for federal workers would
leave many blacks and Latinos with no health coverage.

Gore plans to continue the theme this weekend in New Hampshire, meeting with
disabled voters who claim that Bradley's proposal would rob them of Medicaid
coverage.

Bradley struck back Wednesday before a friendly audience of 250 students and
faculty at the historically black medical school. Morehouse's central mission is
to train doctors to serve poor communities.

Bradley said that Medicaid, a partnership between the federal government and the
states, was failing to reach more than one-third of those living in poverty. He
called the system a "bewildering" bureaucracy, layered with 50 different state
regulations that guaranteed the poor a second-class system.

"I look at this and say, 'Can't we do better than this?' " Bradley said. " We
will have a better system under the system I have proposed than Medicaid."

The role of Medicaid in providing health coverage to the poor is the essential
difference between Bradley and Gore on the issue of health care.

While Bradley would phase out Medicaid, Gore would expand it to include children
whose families earn 250 percent of the federal poverty threshold. Gore would
allow the parents of those children to buy the Medicaid coverage as well.

Responding to Bradley's comments, Gore spokesman Chris Lehane said Bradley's
plan amounted to an $ 1,800 annual voucher that "won't buy much in the
marketplace."

"The scary thing is Senator Bradley's health care plan," Lehane said. "It will
literally leave you out in the cold."

Bradley noted that President Clinton's plan for universal health care coverage
in 1994 also would have phased out Medicaid. And he noted that Gore was
supportive of the concept then, "but now he's not."

"In the '94 health care debate, Senator Bradley was missing in action," Lehane
said. "He only seems to have come across this issue when he started running for
president."

Bradley also blamed the 1996 welfare reform bill, which Gore supported and
Bradley voted against, for allowing the poor to lose Medicaid coverage when they
moved off the welfare rolls.

Dr. Nigel Harris, the dean of the medical school, applauded Bradley's emphasis
on the problems of the nation's 44 million uninsured.

"Medicaid is not achieving what it had set out to achieve," Harris said. " But
at the same time, what we have now is better than nothing."

Part of Bradley's message Wednesday was meant to reinforce his credentials among
black voters. Roger Wilkins, a Pulitzer Prize-winning black journalist and
history professor at George Mason University, flew to Atlanta to introduce him
to the Morehouse audience.

"It defies credulity that Bill Bradley would do anything to hurt blacks and
Latinos," Wilkins said.

Bradley's visit to Atlanta was only his second as a presidential candidate.
After speaking at Morehouse, he met privately with more than two dozen local
elected officials, then attended a fund-raiser in Buckhead.

The fund-raiser --- at the home of Anne Cox Chambers, chairman of the company
that owns The Atlanta Journal-Constitution --- raised $ 200,000 for the
campaign, according to spokeswoman Anita Dunn.

Later, he spoke to delegates attending the general assembly of the United Jewish
Communities.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
A woman in the audience at the Morehouse School of Medicine greets Democratic
presidential candidate Bill Bradley on Wednesday. / JOHN AMIS / Associated Press

                    Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution


                             184 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday

Key Vote YES on the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act, H.R. 372, and the
Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 1101

LENGTH: 394  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Government Fails Freedom Works Association has issued the following
news release:



 On behalf of our activist community, I urge you to contact your representative
and ask him or her to vote YES on the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act,
H.R. 372, and the Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 1101. These bills
will help lower the cost of health insurance coverage for Americans.





 Introduced by Rep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.), the Competitive Health Insurance
Reform Act would eliminate the antitrust exemption the health insurance industry
currently has under the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945.



 One of the main problems with the health care system today is the protections
put in place by the federal government that cater to special interest groups.
The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act promotes the free market and
competition by changing a law put in place nearly 70 years ago to reflect the
current market we have today. It would also ensure that the health insurance
industry complies with the same laws other businesses do.



 Legislation similar to the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act passed the
House in February 2010 and in March 2012. The Small Business Health Fairness
Act, H.R. 1101, sponsored by Rep. Sam Johnson (R-Texas), would allow small
businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs) to provide
employees with more affordable health insurance coverage.



 ObamaCare has caused the cost of health insurance coverage to rise, making it
difficult for small businesses to continue offering health insurance coverage to
employees. The Small Business Health Fairness Act would help level the playing
field for small businesses, which don't have the negotiating power of larger
firms and exemptions under Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), and
lower administrative costs related to health insurance.



 FreedomWorks will count the votes for the Competitive Health Insurance Reform
Act, H.R. 372, and the Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 1101, when
calculating our Scorecard for 2017 and reserves the right to score any related
votes. The scorecard is used to determine eligibility for the FreedomFighter
Award, which recognizes Members of the House and Senate who consistently vote to
support economic freedom and individual liberty.



 Sincerely,



 Adam Brandon, President, FreedomWorks

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             185 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 20, 2017 Monday

Key Vote YES on the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act, H.R. 372, and the
Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 1101

LENGTH: 394  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Government Fails Freedom Works Association has issued the following
news release:



 On behalf of our activist community, I urge you to contact your representative
and ask him or her to vote YES on the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act,
H.R. 372, and the Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 1101. These bills
will help lower the cost of health insurance coverage for Americans.





 Introduced by Rep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.), the Competitive Health Insurance
Reform Act would eliminate the antitrust exemption the health insurance industry
currently has under the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945.



 One of the main problems with the health care system today is the protections
put in place by the federal government that cater to special interest groups.
The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act promotes the free market and
competition by changing a law put in place nearly 70 years ago to reflect the
current market we have today. It would also ensure that the health insurance
industry complies with the same laws other businesses do.



 Legislation similar to the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act passed the
House in February 2010 and in March 2012. The Small Business Health Fairness
Act, H.R. 1101, sponsored by Rep. Sam Johnson (R-Texas), would allow small
businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs) to provide
employees with more affordable health insurance coverage.



 ObamaCare has caused the cost of health insurance coverage to rise, making it
difficult for small businesses to continue offering health insurance coverage to
employees. The Small Business Health Fairness Act would help level the playing
field for small businesses, which don't have the negotiating power of larger
firms and exemptions under Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), and
lower administrative costs related to health insurance.



 FreedomWorks will count the votes for the Competitive Health Insurance Reform
Act, H.R. 372, and the Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 1101, when
calculating our Scorecard for 2017 and reserves the right to score any related
votes. The scorecard is used to determine eligibility for the FreedomFighter
Award, which recognizes Members of the House and Senate who consistently vote to
support economic freedom and individual liberty.



 Sincerely,



 Adam Brandon, President, FreedomWorks

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             186 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Isakson Co-sponsors Bill to Repeal Health Insurance Tax

LENGTH: 382  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of the Senator Johnny Isakson, U.S Government has issued the following
news release:

U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., co-sponsored legislation that would
eliminate the hidden, unfair and punitive tax within the Obamacare law that is
placed on every individual, family and small business purchasing health
insurance.

The Jobs and Premium Protection Act amends the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act by eliminating the health insurance tax, an annual fee on health
insurance plans enacted by the health care law. The National Federation of
Independent Business estimates that repealing this tax will help save an
estimated 152,000 to 286,000 private sector jobs that will be eliminated if this
tax remains in place. In addition to its impact on job creators and private
health insurance, the Obamacare health insurance tax is also resulting in higher
costs and reduced benefits for seniors enrolled in Medicare Advantage, and it is
projected to cost the state of Georgia hundreds of millions of dollars in levies
on Medicaid plan administrators, according to Medicaid Health Plans of America.

"The negative effects of Obamacare are wide-ranging and the costs far outweigh
the benefits of this terrible law," said Isakson. "With the Jobs and Premium
Protection Act, we are seeking to eliminate another burdensome tax on American
small businesses, families and seniors that is raising costs for every American
with health insurance. Under Obamacare, you're taxed if you don't have health
insurance and you're also taxed if you do have health insurance. As we work
toward the goal of repealing and replacing this entire law, we must immediately
address the damage that individual provisions such as the health insurance tax
are already inflicting on our economy."

In 2015, the price tag on the health insurance tax is $11.3 billion and by 2018
jumps to an estimated $14.3 billion. The non-partisan Joint Committee on
Taxation estimated that between 2013 and 2022, the tax will total over $100
billion.

The Jobs and Premium Protection Act was introduced by Senators John Barrasso,
R-Wyo., and Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and is co-sponsored by 18 additional Republican
senators.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             187 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Independent Record (Helena, Montana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

House panel kills health bills

BYLINE: Mike Dennison, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words


March 24--Republicans on a House committee Wednesday killed two bills that would
create a federally required, health-insurance Internet marketplace for consumers
in Montana, saying they want nothing to do with implementing the 2010 federal
health-reform law.

"I don't care how watered-down these bills become, I will resist them," said
Rep. Christy Clark, R-Choteau. "A year ago, the federal bill passed ... and in
that year, it has continually lost support.

"For me to go ahead and implement a program that is losing support every day, is
irresponsible. ... I will not support this nor I will support the implementation
of any (part) of federal health care reform."

With Wednesday's vote, majority Republicans at the Legislature have killed all
of the half-dozen bills that would advance the federal health reforms in
Montana.

State Auditor and Insurance Commissioner Monica Lindeen, a Democrat who
supported the bills and whose office has been working to carry out the federal
law, blasted Republicans for "an absolute failure of leadership."

"They may not agree with the federal act, and everyone has issues with certain
aspects of that federal law," she said. "However, it is the law of the land, and
in the meantime, we need to look at implementing reforms that are going to
benefit small businesses and families in this state."

Lindeen said the health-insurance "exchange" or Internet marketplace was one of
those reforms -- and that now, the federal government will be designing
Montana's exchange.

Republicans at the Legislature have made it clear that they intend to block
implementation of the federal law in Montana and propose alternative reforms.

The health insurance exchange is a key part of the federal law, which requires
all states to set up the Internet marketplace by 2014, when citizens will be
required to buy or already have health insurance.

Those who wish to get federal subsidies to help them pay for insurance must buy
that coverage on the exchanges. The federal law says if states don't set up
their own exchange, federal health officials will design one for them.

The House Business and Labor Committee voted 14-7 along party lines Wednesday to
kill a Democratic proposal to begin setting up a state-based exchange, where
consumers could shop for health insurance policies on the Internet.

The panel then failed on a 10-11 vote to endorse House Bill 620, a compromise
measure sponsored by Republican Rep. Tom Berry of Roundup, and voted 12-9 to
kill that bill, too -- just one day after a hearing at which insurers, insurance
agents, business representatives and consumer groups turned out to support it.

Rep. Elsie Arntzen, R-Billings, the chair of the committee, said Republicans
plan to introduce a separate bill that will direct an interim legislative
committee to study how an exchange could be set up, independent of the federal
law. The panel would make recommendations to the 2013 Legislature.

Lindeen said her office already has studied the issue, with input from insurers,
consumers, health-care providers and businesses.

"That's a waste of time and money," she said of the GOP's new study proposal.
"It's too little, too late. The study should have been last year, which is what
I've already been doing."

Wednesday's votes came on the one-year anniversary of President Barack Obama
signing the health-reform bill into law.

The House Business and Labor Committee also plans to vote later this week on
Senate Bill 228, by Sen. Jason Priest, R-Red Lodge, which would forbid the state
from setting up a health insurance exchange under the federal law.

To see more of the Independent Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.helenair.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110324-HE-House-panel-kills-health-bills-20110324

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HE


                       Copyright 2011 Independent Record


                             188 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             May 24, 2014 Saturday

Fate of state insurance exchange 'unconnected' to federal health law

LENGTH: 719  words


Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell wants to repeal the Affordable Care
Act, but he would not say Friday what that would mean for the 413,000
Kentuckians who have health insurance through the state's health care
exchange.McConnell told reporters that the fate of Kynect - Kentucky's state-run
health insurance exchange - is not linked to the federal health care law. But
the exchange would not exist if not for the federal law that created it.Asked if
a repeal of the health care law would mean Kynect should be disbanded, McConnell
said: "I think that's unconnected to my comments about the overall
question.""What I would have done instead is first of all tear down the walls,
the 50 separate silos in which health insurance is controlled, and pit all the
health insurance companies against each other in a national competitive market,"
he said. "Competition almost always works to keep prices down and quality
up."McConnell's Democratic opponent, Kentucky Secretary of State Alison
Lundergan Grimes, has said she opposes "taking away insurance that 400,000
Kentuckians just recently got access to." But the Democratic nominee has
declined to say whether she would have voted for the law had she been in office
when it was approved in 2010, saying only she would work to fix the law if
elected.The comments underscore the political sensitivity the federal health
care law, sometimes known as "Obamacare," presents to candidates from both
parties.Some parts of the law are popular in Kentucky, and McConnell doesn't
want to alienate constituents who now have health insurance in one of the
nation's poorest states.

But the law and the president whose name it evokes remain unpopular in Kentucky
- thus Grimes' rhetorical dancing over whether she would have voted yes when it
passed four years ago.McConnell, who would become Senate majority leader if he
is re-elected and Republicans gain six seats in the November elections, and
Grimes, the Democrats' prized recruit, are battling it out in one of the most
closely-watched contests in the nation.Kentucky Democrats have worked hard to
separate Kynect from the disastrous rollout of the federal health care exchange,
in which website failures made it difficult to enroll in the program. Many of
those problems have since been fixed.In Kentucky - one of only two Southern
states where Democrats control the House - some Democratic candidates have begun
to refer to the law as "Beshearcare," a reference to Kentucky's popular
Democratic Gov. Steve Beshear. Republicans control the Kentucky Senate."I don't
know if it's something our candidates will run on, but what I think it shows to
the people of Kentucky is that Kentucky Democrats are just that. We are
Kentuckians. And we don't do things maybe the way Washington, D.C. does," said
state Rep. Sannie Overly, who is overseeing state House Democratic candidates as
chairwoman of the House Democratic Caucus.It's unclear if the strategy will work
for Grimes in a state where "Obamacare" remains unpopular but Kynect is embraced
as successful. Friday, in a joint news conference with fellow Republican U.S.
Sen. Rand Paul, McConnell pointed to a report from the Congressional Budget
Office that said the Affordable Care Act reduced the number of uninsured people
nationwide to 30 million from 40 million."What is the cost-benefit ratio of this
kind of destruction, the impact on our 16 percent of the economy, to have such a
marginal reduction at the end of the day?" he said. "I think people of this
state are entitled to know the answer to the question, how do you feel about
it?"Grimes, meanwhile, has been targeting Republicans who supported Matt Bevin
in Tuesday's Republican primary. McConnell easily defeated the tea-party backed
Bevin to win the GOP nomination."I hope you will take the time to get to know
who I am and my true positions," Grimes wrote in an open letter to Republican
voters. The letter said Grimes supports closing "tax loopholes that encourage
big corporations to ship our good-paying Kentucky jobs overseas."After the news
conference, a McConnell spokeswoman said that if the Affordable Care Act is
repealed, "Kentucky should decide for itself whether to keep Kynect or set up a
different marketplace."© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by SyndiGate
Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             189 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 23, 2017 Thursday

Key Vote YES on the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act, H.R. 372, and the
Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 1101

LENGTH: 401  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, D.C: FreedomWorks has issued the following news release:



 On behalf of our activist community, I urge you to contact your representative
and ask him or her to vote YES on the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act,
H.R. 372, and the Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 1101. These bills
will help lower the cost of health insurance coverage for Americans.





 Introduced by Rep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.), the Competitive Health Insurance
Reform Act would eliminate the antitrust exemption the health insurance industry
currently has under the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945.



 One of the main problems with the health care system today is the protections
put in place by the federal government that cater to special interest groups.
The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act promotes the free market and
competition by changing a law put in place nearly 70 years ago to reflect the
current market we have today. It would also ensure that the health insurance
industry complies with the same laws other businesses do.



 Legislation similar to the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act passed the
House in February 2010 and in March 2012. The Small Business Health Fairness
Act, H.R. 1101, sponsored by Rep. Sam Johnson (R-Texas), would allow small
businesses to join together through association health plans (AHPs) to provide
employees with more affordable health insurance coverage.



 ObamaCare has caused the cost of health insurance coverage to rise, making it
difficult for small businesses to continue offering health insurance coverage to
employees. The Small Business Health Fairness Act would help level the playing
field for small businesses, which don't have the negotiating power of larger
firms and exemptions under Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), and
lower administrative costs related to health insurance.



 FreedomWorks will count the votes for the Competitive Health Insurance Reform
Act, H.R. 372, and the Small Business Health Fairness Act, H.R. 1101, when
calculating our Scorecard for 2017 and reserves the right to score any related
votes. The scorecard is used to determine eligibility for the FreedomFighter
Award, which recognizes Members of the House and Senate who consistently vote to
support economic freedom and individual liberty.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             190 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Fresno Bee

                            August 24, 2004, Tuesday

New California law requires employers to provide health insurance

BYLINE: By Robert Rodriguez

LENGTH: 488 words



More than 140,000 full-time San Joaquin Valley workers could benefit under a
controversial new state law requiring employers to provide health insurance,
said officials with the Central Valley Health Policy Institute.

Known as the Health Insurance Act of 2003, or Senate Bill 2, the new law
requires that medium- and large-sized businesses provide health insurance to
their employees or pay a fee to the state for their coverage.

Some business groups are opposed to SB 2 and have launched a ballot initiative
to repeal it.

Supporters say the new law will help improve the health of the working poor --
those who earn too much to qualify for subsidized medical care but lack health
insurance.

Approximately 142,000 San Joaquin Valley residents, including workers and their
dependents, would be among the 1 million Californians covered under the new law,
institute researchers project.

Inadequate health care can lead to serious issues, such as higher rates of
hospitalization, increased rates of teenage pregnancy and a lack of prenatal
care, said Kathleen Curtis, director of the Central California Center for Health
and Human Services at California State University, Fresno.

"SB 2 could provide some solutions to this pressing problem," Curtis said, "and
health insurance can make a difference."

The new law will be phased in beginning in 2006.

Some business groups hope that does not happen.

A business-backed initiative on the November ballot, Proposition 72, seeks to
repeal the law, which critics say will hurt business.

As part of SB 2, employers are required to pay at least 80 percent of the health
insurance cost and the employee will pay no more than 20 percent.

"Most reasonable people agree that California's health-care system has serious
flaws," said Fran Blackney, business advocate for the Clovis Chamber of
Commerce. "But the crushing blow Prop. 72 has on the bottom line of businesses
will force many of them to close or move out of the state."

Blackney fears that smaller businesses will be among the hardest-hit by the new
provision.

Under the law, employers with 200 or more workers are required to offer health
insurance for employees and their dependents, beginning Jan. 1, 2006.

Companies with 50 to 199 employees are required to offer coverage for just their
employees, no dependents, by Jan. 1, 2007.

Businesses with 20 to 49 employees will be asked to comply if a state subsidy is
provided.

The issue comes down to what people think is best for the community, said Edward
Graham, epidemiologist with Fresno State's College of Health and Human Services.

"What kind of society do we want to have?" Graham asked. "Do we want something
that is good for the health of the community, or a bunch of workers in
low-paying jobs with no health insurance?"



-----

To see more of The Fresno Bee, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.fresnobee.com


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: FR-INSURANCE-WORKPLACE-20040824

JOURNAL-CODE: FR

               Copyright 2004 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                         Copyright 2004 The Fresno Bee


                             191 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Isakson Co-sponsors Bill to Repeal Health Insurance Tax

LENGTH: 382  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of the Senator Johnny Isakson, U.S Government has issued the following
news release:

U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., co-sponsored legislation that would
eliminate the hidden, unfair and punitive tax within the Obamacare law that is
placed on every individual, family and small business purchasing health
insurance.

The Jobs and Premium Protection Act amends the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act by eliminating the health insurance tax, an annual fee on health
insurance plans enacted by the health care law. The National Federation of
Independent Business estimates that repealing this tax will help save an
estimated 152,000 to 286,000 private sector jobs that will be eliminated if this
tax remains in place. In addition to its impact on job creators and private
health insurance, the Obamacare health insurance tax is also resulting in higher
costs and reduced benefits for seniors enrolled in Medicare Advantage, and it is
projected to cost the state of Georgia hundreds of millions of dollars in levies
on Medicaid plan administrators, according to Medicaid Health Plans of America.

"The negative effects of Obamacare are wide-ranging and the costs far outweigh
the benefits of this terrible law," said Isakson. "With the Jobs and Premium
Protection Act, we are seeking to eliminate another burdensome tax on American
small businesses, families and seniors that is raising costs for every American
with health insurance. Under Obamacare, you're taxed if you don't have health
insurance and you're also taxed if you do have health insurance. As we work
toward the goal of repealing and replacing this entire law, we must immediately
address the damage that individual provisions such as the health insurance tax
are already inflicting on our economy."

In 2015, the price tag on the health insurance tax is $11.3 billion and by 2018
jumps to an estimated $14.3 billion. The non-partisan Joint Committee on
Taxation estimated that between 2013 and 2022, the tax will total over $100
billion.

The Jobs and Premium Protection Act was introduced by Senators John Barrasso,
R-Wyo., and Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and is co-sponsored by 18 additional Republican
senators.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             192 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Isakson Co-sponsors Bill to Repeal Health Insurance Tax

LENGTH: 382  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of the Senator Johnny Isakson, U.S Government has issued the following
news release:

U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., co-sponsored legislation that would
eliminate the hidden, unfair and punitive tax within the Obamacare law that is
placed on every individual, family and small business purchasing health
insurance.

The Jobs and Premium Protection Act amends the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act by eliminating the health insurance tax, an annual fee on health
insurance plans enacted by the health care law. The National Federation of
Independent Business estimates that repealing this tax will help save an
estimated 152,000 to 286,000 private sector jobs that will be eliminated if this
tax remains in place. In addition to its impact on job creators and private
health insurance, the Obamacare health insurance tax is also resulting in higher
costs and reduced benefits for seniors enrolled in Medicare Advantage, and it is
projected to cost the state of Georgia hundreds of millions of dollars in levies
on Medicaid plan administrators, according to Medicaid Health Plans of America.

"The negative effects of Obamacare are wide-ranging and the costs far outweigh
the benefits of this terrible law," said Isakson. "With the Jobs and Premium
Protection Act, we are seeking to eliminate another burdensome tax on American
small businesses, families and seniors that is raising costs for every American
with health insurance. Under Obamacare, you're taxed if you don't have health
insurance and you're also taxed if you do have health insurance. As we work
toward the goal of repealing and replacing this entire law, we must immediately
address the damage that individual provisions such as the health insurance tax
are already inflicting on our economy."

In 2015, the price tag on the health insurance tax is $11.3 billion and by 2018
jumps to an estimated $14.3 billion. The non-partisan Joint Committee on
Taxation estimated that between 2013 and 2022, the tax will total over $100
billion.

The Jobs and Premium Protection Act was introduced by Senators John Barrasso,
R-Wyo., and Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and is co-sponsored by 18 additional Republican
senators.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             193 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                           January 6, 2016 Wednesday

Health insurance draft law to be discussed in next Cabinet meeting

BYLINE: Al-Masry Al-Youm

LENGTH: 158  words


The final draft of the health insurance law will be discussed in the next
Cabinet meeting, said Health Minister Ahmed Emad.


During a press conference at the Cabinet on Wednesday, Emad said that any
hospital abiding by high quality health standards will be included in the new
health insurance system.Egypt's health care system has been neglected for
decades, as the government has failed to provide safe and high quality medical
services to the underprivileged.The new Constitution stipulates that government
funds allocated to health care should increase to three percent by
2017.According to the state information system website, the health system in
Egypt incorporates both the public and private sectors of the health insurance
market.Approximately 50 percent of the population is covered by basic government
health insurance, a further 30 percent are enrolled in private health insurance
plans and 20 percent of Egyptians have no health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2016 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             194 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Daily Yomiuri

                           January 21, 1993, Thursday

Health Insurance Council OK's Law Revisions

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 264 words


The Health and Welfare Ministry is planning to aid municipal governments facing
financial burdens caused by the national health insurance system.

On Wednesday the Council on Health Insurance, in response to a request from
Health and Welfare Minister Yuya Niwa, considered and approved a draft to revise
the National Health Insurance Law.

The national health insurance system is run by municipal governments chiefly to
cover self-employed workers, and is financially supported by the central
government.

The draft runs as follows:

--Grants from the national coffers to local governments to cover deficits in
health insurance schemes will be increased from the current 100 billion yen to
125 billion yen a year.

--National budget support to cover premium shortfalls caused by low-income
people who do not pay will be changed from the current 50 percent of such
shortfalls to an annual 10 billion yen.

The government will submit the draft to the next ordinary Diet session, which
begins Friday.

In addition to these steps requiring legislative actions, the ministry intends
to improve facilities built by the health insurance plans and to increase
national health insurance special grants to assist financially strapped insured
individuals from the current 10 billion yen to 18 billion yen a year.

The ministry also asked the council to deliberate a ministry proposal to
increase the size of individual payments of high-cost medical expenses from the
current 60,000 yen to 63,000 yen, effective May 1.

The council is expected to discuss this proposal next month.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1993 The Daily Yomiuri


                             195 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                  ROP Edition

EXTRA IN YOUR Ledger;
Pembroke saved $250K by adopting law; reductions statewide projected at $100M;
Health insurance law cutting costs

BYLINE:  Patrick Ronan, The Patriot Ledger.

Patrick Ronan may be reached at pronan@ledger.com

SECTION: News; pg. 15

LENGTH: 482 words


The state's new health insurance reform law will save Massachusetts cities and
towns about $100 million in its first year, according to the latest projection
by the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation.

Although the law has been criticized by many public unions, several South Shore
communities have been able to make changes to their health insurance plans
without much controversy.

The Municipal Health Insurance Reform Law - passed by the state Legislature in
July 2011 - gives city and town leaders more power in choosing new health plans
for public employees, as part of an effort to curb rising health insurance
costs. Opponents of the law said it cripples the unions' collective bargaining
rights while paving the way to higher medical costs for public workers,
specifically through higher co-pays.

Nine towns in the Metropolitan Area Planning Council - a group of 101 cities and
towns in metro Boston - have adopted the law and have agreed to new plans with
their workers. Those towns are Pembroke, Duxbury, Marshfield, Scituate,
Rockland, Hingham, Norwell, Sharon and Canton. More than 30 cities or towns in
MAPC have adopted the law.

"They (union workers) saw that there was a middle ground," Pembroke Town
Administrator Edwin Thorne said. He said the law will save his town from
$250,000 to $300,000 in annual health insurance costs. Employees will pay less
toward their annual premiums and won't have to change health care providers.

But not all union workers have agreed to the changes without protest. During a
selectmen's meeting last month, Barry Shea of Scituate's firefighters union said
the public employee committee approved a new plan because it was "better than
the town's initial proposal.

"Health care was once a benefit, and now, potentially, it's going to hinder
(town workers) financially," Shea said.

One of the options in the new law is for towns to join the state's Group
Insurance Commission (GIC), which offers the most savings but provides limited
coverage options. By adopting GIC, public employees may have to change doctors
to enjoy in-network benefits.

Pembroke's new plan means employees will have to pay an additional $5 to $10 in
co-pays for every doctor's visit. However, Thorne said those extra costs will be
wiped out during the next few years because of a provision in the law that
requires towns to use at least 25 percent of its first-year savings to mitigate
medical costs for employees.

"It could take up to five years until it (the mitigation account) runs out,"
Thorne said.

Quincy, Weymouth, Randolph and Holbrook have all joined the GIC without adopting
the Municipal Health Insurance Law. In total, 24 municipalities in MAPC have
joined GIC.

In 2010, Braintree adopted a GIC look-a-like plan.

"We made plan design changes through collective bargaining, so we were kind of
ahead of everyone else," said Karen Shanley, Braintree's director of human
resources.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Patriot Ledger


                             196 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              March 9, 2012 Friday
                                 Drive Edition

Insurance exchange bill is pulled

BYLINE: MICHAEL MCNUTT, Capitol Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 786 words


Legislative leaders agreed Thursday to wait until after the U.S. Supreme Court
rules on the constitutionality of the national health care law to pursue
developing a state-based marketplace where residents would shop for private
health insurance products.

Conservative groups applauded the decision while a powerful business group said
lawmakers are making a mistake.

The U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule as early as June on a legal challenge
brought by several states alleging the national health care law is
unconstitutional.

The federal health care law requires states to submit plans for health insurance
exchanges if states don't want to use a federal system. The federal government
will impose its version of an insurance exchange on states that don't set up
their own

If the high court would overturn the law, it's possible the health insurance
exchanges required by the law would not be necessary. A ruling upholding the law
could make Oklahoma, which a year ago returned a $54.6 million federal grant to
develop a health insurance exchange program, scramble to get a system in place.
The deadline to have a plan submitted to the federal government is Jan. 1. The
system should be operational a year later.

A favorable ruling also could result in state Attorney General Scott Pruitt
pursuing his lawsuit, which has been placed on hold until the other lawsuit is
decided. Pruitt's lawsuit seeks to have parts of the health care law ruled
unconstitutional to prevent the entire law from being enforced.

Among other things, the lawsuit alleges the federal health care law violates a
new part of the state constitution approved in November 2010 when voters passed
a state question that prevents Oklahomans from being forced to buy health
insurance. His lawsuit states that the Oklahoma Constitution and federal health
care law are conflicting provisions that cannot coexist.

A legislative joint committee last month recommended lawmakers begin taking
steps to establish a system similar to the one in Utah, which was established
before the national health care law was written. It also recommended Pruitt
continue to seek to overturn the national health care law.

Legislators had prepared Senate Bill 1629 as the measure to contain the
insurance exchange language and comply with the national health care law
promoted by Democratic President Barack Obama.

David Tackett, executive director of Oklahomans for Liberty, said thousands of
calls by constitutional conservative groups like his and Tea Party members were
a key factor in the decision by Oklahoma legislators to put off acting on
developing a health exchange this session. He said legislators couldn't round up
the required votes to get an insurance exchange proposal passed.

"I can assure you that the people's opposition to Obamacare health exchanges is
the reason SB 1629 was killed," Tackett said.

Fred Morgan, president of The State Chamber, a business organization with about
2,100 members, said SB 1629 was a chance to stop implementation of a federal
insurance exchange.

"We cannot cross our fingers and hope this federal mandate will go away," he
said.

SB 1629 was the best chance the state had to stop the national health care bill
from being implemented in Oklahoma, he said.

"Unfortunately we have now missed that opportunity," Morgan said.

The legislative task force recommended that the Oklahoma exchange should be
housed in the Insure Oklahoma program, which would be spun off from the Oklahoma
Health Care Authority and turned into a public trust. Insure Oklahoma allows
people whose employer does not offer health insurance to get coverage and pay
premiums.

The task force didn't have a cost estimate or suggest where the money would come
from.

Senate Democrats have said they supported using the $54.6 million federal grant
so work could start on the exchange last year.

Republican Gov. Mary Fallin and GOP legislative leaders last year accepted the
$54.6 million federal grant to set up an insurance exchange system, but they
rejected the offer after hearing complaints from Republicans and conservatives
in the state.

Fallin and legislative leaders said the state will rely on mostly private money
to form the exchange, and that it would cost much less than $54.6 million.

"Republicans in the state Senate will do everything in our power to block
Obamacare in Oklahoma," said Senate President Pro Tem Brian Bingman, R-Sapulpa.
House Speaker Kris Steele said developing a state-based solution is the best,
most realistic way to defend against a federal exchange.

"The reality is we're not yet at the point where we absolutely have to deploy
that defense," said Steele, R-Shawnee. "Should the time come, we'll be prepared
to act."


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             197 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Yemen Times

                               November 25, 2010

Lack of health insurance leads to choice of debt or ill health

LENGTH: 549 words


SANA'A, Nov. 24 - Yemenis are being forced to choose between debt or ill health
due to a lack of adequate health insurance, according to Dr. Adel Al-Emad,
assistant professor of health economics and management at Sana'a University.



During a workshop organized by the Yemeni Workers' Union on Monday, Al-Emad
explained that half of Yemenis are deprived of health services, indicating the
rural population's minimal access to health facilities. He revealed that 27
percent of Yemeni families have at least one member suffering from a chronic
disease.

The professor said that without health insurance people are forced to borrow
money, sell their homes and resort to charity organizations to cover their
health expenses, or face living with disease.

"The absence of health insurance leads to more poverty, and more poverty leads
to more illness," he said during the workshop.

Al-Emad, who founded the Specialized Health Insurance Company, the only private
company in Yemen offering health insurance, said that the private sector cannot
resolve health problems unless the government takes part in the solution.

"People will be more eager to pay income tax if they receive health services in
return," he said.

Health insurance is of economic importance. According to Al-Emad, many countries
are interested in the health of their people, not for human reasons, but for
economic reasons.

"Investment in the health sector means investment in human development," he
explained.

The doctor indicated that improved health leads to increased productivity in the
workforce, and therefore boosts economic growth.

Al-Emad stated that it's not easy to implement health insurance in a primarily
rural-based country like Yemen. "It's difficult to collect money from farmers or
random workers, and those workers make up a high proportion of the Yemeni
population," he said.

The health insurance law has provoked much debate among parliamentarians and
health activists. The law stipulates that the government will establish an
authority to collect and control the taxes of insurers to improve the health
sector.

"Establishment of a government authority requires many experts and employees,
moreover, it will cause corruption," Al-Emad said.

"We call on the government to provide all workers with health insurance instead
of making them beg in hospitals," said Mohammad Al-Jadri, head of the Yemeni
Workers' Syndicate.

He indicated that the syndicate asked the government to pass a law on health
insurance in 2004. "Most workers cannot afford increasing health expenses," he
said.

Parliamentarian Dr. Sameer Khair told the Yemen Times that the bill is in the
final stages of approval, indicating that most MPs support the new legislation.


There are two articles in the proposed law which have provoked debate. MPs want
the private sector to be a partner in the provision of health insurance, and
have demanded the government give people freedom to choose between insurers,
according to Khair.

He said that MPs are reviewing the establishment of a governmental authority
that will collect taxes from employees. A new Health Insurance Authority has
been proposed which will impose a 11 percent tax on all state employees in order
to provide them and their families with health services, including medicine and
surgery.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 13


     Copyright 2010 Yemen Times - Yemen Times Press, Printing & Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                             198 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             April 10, 1994, Sunday

ATLANTA BUSINESS: PERSPECTIVES OTHER VOICES

BYLINE: By Edward T. Wimberleyseries; atlanta/journal/constitution; health;
mental care; reform; legislation; opinion

SECTION: BUSINESS; Section H; Page 3

LENGTH: 514 words


Other Voices gives members of the Atlanta business community an opportunity to
speak directly to Atlanta Journal-Constitution readers. Dr. Edward T. Wimberley
is the chairman of the Georgia State University Department of Mental Health &
Human Services.

Long-term care should have higher priority in reform bill

This is the 12th in a series discussing the impact of health care reform in the
United States on the industry, business and consumers.

In the lingo of Washington, legislation considered viable or "on track" is
referred to as a train leaving the station. These days, the nation is watching
Washington to see whether health care reform is even out of the rail yard, let
alone leaving the station.

Caught up in the lobbying efforts of powerful interest groups such as the
American Medical Association and the Health Insurance Association of America,
and drowning in the Clinton administration's Whitewater fiasco, health care
reform seems to have lost much of its saliency as a policy issue. The Clinton
health reform plan is clearly on the ropes, to the point where the president may
even have to trade off his minimal criteria of universal "coverage" for
universal "access."

Sidetracked reform

While the health reform train has become hopelessly sidetracked, long-term care,
the perennial caboose, is scarcely in sight. In an effort to reduce the
considerable costs associated with any reform package, many observers expect the
Clinton long-term care plan to be scrapped, saving $ 5 billion in 1996 and
trimming from $ 20 billion to $ 50 billion by 2000. The long-term care caboose
and mental health benefits historically have been the first items to be cut from
health reform legislation, and these are the very benefits that a growing number
of Americans are coming to rely upon.

Consider, for instance, that while the number of elderly in the population will
increase by as much as 125 percent by 2030, the number of disabled elderly will
triple over the same period. Similarly, the number of elderly nursing home
residents can be expected to increase from 929,000 in 1990 to 1.4 million in
2040.

Long-term care needs

At best, the Clinton plan fell far short of seriously meeting even current
long-term care needs. The administration's long-term care benefit is primarily
targeted toward home and community-based services, with little relief provided
for the costs of nursing home care or other institutional alternatives.

This expanded community-based benefit is pretty limited, though, and would
accommodate the needs of only about half the nation's severely disabled. Yet,
limited as it is, it is better than the alternative: a train leaving the station
without a caboose.

Frankly, I think long-term care is too important to the nation to be a caboose.
It ought to be one of the engines, or at least a passenger car.

Unfortunately for the public, it is a caboose and is sitting in the train barn.
Maybe it's just me, getting older and seeing my hair get grayer, but it scares
me to see an issue of such importance so far from the policy forefront.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941030170

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                             199 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 4, 2013 Monday

Health reform could save $168M in charity care

BYLINE: By Christopher Snowbeck csnowbeck@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Legislature; Health

LENGTH: 409 words


The federal health law should reduce the need for charity care and other
uncompensated care costs at Minnesota hospitals by as much as $168 million,
according to a state report issued Tuesday, Feb. 5.

In 2011, hospitals in the state provided $308 million worth of uncompensated
care, a category that includes costs for people in charity care programs as well
as money owed by people who don't pay their hospital bills.

Without implementation of the federal health law beginning next year, hospital
uncompensated care costs in Minnesota likely would grow by 2016 to somewhere
between $319 million and $411.9 million, according to the new report from the
Health Economics Program at the Minnesota Department of Health.

But with expanded health insurance coverage due to the health law, uncompensated
care costs in 2016 should decline at Minnesota hospitals to between $184.8
million and $243.8 million.

"Implementation of the (health law) in Minnesota ... could result in reduction
of projected hospital uncompensated (care) by between $134 million and $168
million by 2016," the report states. It projects a range of possible future
costs and savings to account for variables that might drive the estimates up or
down.

Many doctors and community-based health care providers also have uncompensated
care costs, the report notes, so the health law should create savings at those
groups, too.

Passed in 2010, the federal health law requires most people in the United States
to purchase coverage beginning in 2014. The law provides more opportunities for
low-income people to enroll in public health insurance programs while providing
subsidies for many others to buy private policies.

By 2016, the number of Minnesotans lacking health insurance is expected to
decline by 60 percent, from 499,000 to about 201,000 people. In addition, more
people will have richer benefits due to the law's new requirements for the value
of coverage provided by health plans.

Both factors should reduce the amount of uncompensated care, the report notes,
although costs won't be eliminated.

"A significant portion of uncompensated care is associated with care provided to
people with health insurance coverage," the report states. "In other words, even
after gaining health insurance coverage, some individuals will likely lack the
ability to pay their share of health care costs, or cost sharing."

Christopher Snowbeck can be reached at 651-228-5479.

Follow him attwitter.com/chrissnowbeck

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             200 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

Mandatory health insurance announced in Dubai

LENGTH: 258  words


Another indication of Dubai's return to economic strength comes in the form of
the approval of a long-anticipated health insurance law.


From next year, health insurance will be mandatory for all citizens, residents
and visitors in Dubai. Employers are responsible for the health insurance of
their employees, whilst the government will be responsible for health insurance
of United Arab Emirates (UAE) nationals, will provide for basic services
including surgical services and maternity care. Industry commenters note that
preventative health care is not part of the basic package but this is likely to
change with the introduction of this law.
Besides the citizens of Dubai the clear winners here are the health care
providers. When mandatory health insurance was introduced in the Emirate of Abu
Dhabi in 2006, the health authority of Abu Dhabi's (HAAD's) health care
statistics recorded a staggering 62% compound annual growth rate in outpatient
claims between 2007 and 2010. It also recorded a corresponding 29% growth rate
in inpatient visits. Health care providers including NMC and Al Noor have been
investing in anticipation of this change in regime, with the former being better
placed to benefit on account of its focus on a lower socio-economic demographic.
Short-term losers include local companies, which will experience margin pressure
due to increased employee costs. Whether the new regulations have been
introduced too early into the economic recovery remains to be seen.<p
class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             201 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              April 8, 2012 Sunday

Thoughts on national health care

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 563 words


Thoughts on national health care

The idea of nationally mandated health care isn't very appealing to many
Americans.

By not giving Americans a choice of whether or not they can buy health insurance
, Obamacare goes against one of America's core values, freedom. Forty million
Americans do not have health insurance because, for most of them, they can't
afford it. So it doesn't seem fair to force them to buy it.

But for all the Americans who do have health insurance, I cannot find one
logical reason to why you would want to stop paying for health insurance. Why
would you be against a law saying that you have to buy something that you know
you are going to buy regardless if there is a law or not?

For those who cannot afford health insurance, it will be easier to pay for it if
Obamacare is determined constitutional. One place where mandatory health
insurance has worked and made insurance more affordable for everyone is
Massachusetts, which helped encourage President Obama to sign the national
health care bill.

The Massachusetts bill was signed into law by governor Mitt Romney, who is
against Obama and nationally mandated health care.

Jeremy Doll

Mundelein

Media not liberal? Come on

Joe Walsh is a polarizing individual when it comes to politics. Whether the
Daily Herald is anti-Walsh is really not a problem since newspapers are
generally either liberal or conservative in their approach. I would agree that
the two pictures shown of Rep. Walsh are not negative but actually show him in a
favorable light.

My issue with Mr. Slusher is in paragraph four when he cites the term "liberal
media" as being an exhaustive cliché. Really, Mr. Slusher, are you asking us to
believe that the media, all forms, do not come down on the liberal side of
nearly all issues?

Also, you refer to a "top all-news" cable television outlet, I am guessing Fox.
Have you ever watched MSNBC? This channel led by one of the biggest blowhards on
television, Chris Matthews, outdoes Fox in pushing an agenda by a factor of at
least 10.

To accuse the Fox Network the way you have done is proof enough that the media,
including the Daily Herald, is indeed preaching the liberal line, and, while I
don't pay any attention to your recommendations for elected office, where do you
stand in your picks for November?

My guess is the liberal slate will fare much better than the conservative
candidates. Not necessarily based on the facts or their abilities.

Thomas P. Young

Mundelein

State constitution needs these changes

In November 2008, there was a call for a constitutional convention in Illinois
that was defeated. I didn't happen mostly, I believe, because of cost estimates
near $78 million and the probability that the same politicians who are taking
Illinois down the tubes would be those drawing up the new constitution.

Since it is possible to change the constitution without a convention (10 changes
have been made without a con-con), I am proposing the following changes to our
current constitution:

1) Remove all guarantees regarding salary increases or pensions and how they are
managed from the constitution. They don't belong there in the first place.

2) Take away the current ability for the speaker of the House and the president
of the Senate to single-handedly determine what legislation is to be voted on by
members of these two bodies. No one person should have that power.

David Krein

Schaumburg

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             202 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                     XPRESS

                               November 28, 2013

Health insurance mandatory for visas in Dubai

LENGTH: 449 words


Dubai

Dubai residents, whose employers do not provide family insurance, will soon have
to pay a minimum of Dh600 towards each of their dependent's mandatory health
insurance, following a new law announced on November 26.

According to the Health Insurance Law Number 11 from 2013, the mandatory health
insurance will apply to all Emiratis and expatriates across the emirate,
including free zones, from next year. It will be a pre-requisite for obtaining a
new residency visa or its renewal as employers and individual sponsors will have
to submit evidence of health insurance coverage with the visa application.

The law, to be rolled out in phases till 2016, will also apply to visitors to
cover specific emergency services.

Announcing the provisions of law, Dubai Health Authority (DHA) Director-General
Essa Al Maidoor said the government will be responsible for covering Emiratis,
while "employers will be responsible for their employees and sponsors for their
sponsored individuals who do not work for an employer". The benefits are
required to be in keeping with an "essential benefit package" whose minimum
value is around Dh600. Additional coverage is optional.

"With this, every individual in Dubai will have access to quality healthcare.
The mandatory health insurance will also help maintain the sustainability of the
emirate's healthcare services," said Al Maidoor.

Dr Haidar Al Yousuf, DHA's Director of Health Funding, said details of the
"essential benefit package" will be released soon.

"For now, I can say that it covers basic emergency, primary, secondary,
maternity and surgical procedures. It has been designed to ensure adequate
access to health without burdening employers or sponsors."

He said employers must bear the cost for enrolling their employees in a health
insurance scheme without any deductions to them. They are also bound to ensure
the validity of coverage throughout the employment. In case an insurance cover
expires before the visa is renewed, the employer will have to bear the full cost
of the employee's healthcare, including emergency services.

He said the cost of the total package for employers will be around 1.5 per cent
of the total salaries. Over two million uninsured people in Dubai, including
blue collar workers and domestic help, are expected to benefit from the new law.
A total of 40 insurance companies have been approved to provide cover in the
emirate.

Violations of the law carry fines ranging from Dh500 to Dh150,000 in addition to
other penalties. Repeat violations carry a penalty of a maximum Dh500,000.
Violators could also face civil or criminal action in line with UAE laws.

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© Copyright 2013 Al Nisr Media FZ LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 58


                  Copyright 2013 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             203 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday

Obamacare fact check

BYLINE: Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words


Sept. 29--If the debate over America's new health care law has shown anything,
it's that there are a lot of misconceptions circulating about Obamacare. Here
are a few:

The health care law rations care: Obamacare is not socialized medicine. It
leaves in place the private health care system that follows free market
principles. The law does put more regulations on health insurance companies. It
also fines most large employers that fail to provide insurance for employees,
and it requires all individuals to have health insurance.

The health care law has death panels: There are no death panels to determine if
individuals are worthy of receiving health care.

Muslims are exempt from the law: Muslims are not exempt. There is a religious
conscious exemption but it applies to groups that disavow all forms of
insurance, even Social Security.

Congress is exempt from Obamacare: Congress is not exempt. Like everyone else,
lawmakers are required to have health insurance. They're also required to buy
insurance through the marketplaces.

People won't be able to keep the same doctor: Some patients who buy health
insurance through the marketplace could lose access to their current doctor, but
it would be because they have a new insurance plan. This can also happen in the
current system if an employer changes insurance plans.

The government is taking over health care: The Affordable Care Act relies on the
free market. The law does significantly increase government regulation of health
insurers. But it relies on private companies and the free market. Most Americans
will continue to get coverage from private insurers.

All non-U.S. citizens, regardless of immigration status, will get free health
care: The law does not provide free health care to anyone, and especially not to
people in the United States illegally. Illegal immigrants cannot enroll in
Medicaid; nor are they eligible to shop in the marketplace for health insurance.

Source: PolitiFacts.com.

___ (c)2013 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130929-RE-Obamacare-fact-check-0929-20130929

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2013 Reading Eagle


                             204 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday

Minnesota insurers told same-sex spouses count for benefits

BYLINE: By Christopher Snowbeck csnowbeck@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Legislature; Minnesota-Twin Cities; State; Business

LENGTH: 508 words


Now that same-sex marriage is legal in Minnesota, there will be ripple effects
in the world of health insurance.

On Wednesday, the state Commerce Department issued a bulletin telling insurance
companies that the new law means same-sex spouses will have the same rights to
dependent health insurance coverage as opposite-sex spouses in certain employee
health plans.

Meanwhile, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., said Wednesday that it is
updating its benefits policy for same-sex domestic partners, saying the couples
will eventually need to get married to maintain benefits. Other employers may
follow suit.

The law's impact is unclear for people covered by state public health insurance
programs such as Medicaid, but state officials say there could be winners and
losers.

The marriage law means any health insurance policy issued in Minnesota that
provides dependent coverage for spouses must make that coverage available to all
spouses regardless of their sex, the Commerce Department said.

The scope of the department's interpretation, however, is limited to health
insurance plans regulated by the state. Those plans -- which are known as "fully
insured" policies -- cover about 24 percent of state residents.

The department's ruling does not apply to most "self-insured" companies that are
large enough to carry the risk for health plan costs, and therefore are subject
to regulation by the federal government. Those health plans -- which often are
offered by companies that operate in multiple states -- cover about 38 percent
of state residents.

For more than a decade, Mayo Clinic has provided health insurance benefits to
same-sex domestic partners. The clinic is updating that policy in light of the
state law.

The deadline by which same-sex domestic partners must wed to maintain benefits
at Mayo Clinic has not been set. But "staff will have ample time to comply with
the change," said Bryan Anderson, a Mayo Clinic spokesman.

"Mayo has long had a policy providing same-sex domestic partner benefits because
those affected were not allowed to be married," Anderson wrote in an email.
"That policy notes that marriage would be required if same-sex marriage became
legal in the state where the couple lives."

Minnesota public health insurance programs provide coverage for about 14 percent
of state residents, and the largest of the programs is Medicaid. The state and
federal governments jointly fund Medicaid, so Minnesota officials are seeking
clarification as to how the state's law might affect who's eligible for the
pubic programs.

"We are waiting for guidance ... as to whether same-sex couples are treated as
married couples for determining Medicaid and MinnesotaCare household size and
financial eligibility," the state Department of Human Services said Wednesday in
a statement.

"This would impact the adults as well as children in the house," the state said.
"For some people this will be beneficial, and for others it will be
detrimental."

Christopher Snowbeck can be reached at 651-228-5479. Follow him
atwww.twitter.com/chrissnowbeck .

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Pioneer Press: Sherri LaRose-Chiglo)
Brad Weber and Ryan Pfeifle display their wedding rings just picked up at the
Mall of America location of Helzberg Diamonds, July 20, 2013. They are getting
married shortly after midnight on August 1st. (Pioneer Press: Chris Polydoroff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             205 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                              July 2, 2012 Monday
                             Politifact.com Edition

RICK SCOTT SAYS THE HEALTH CARE LAW RATIONS CARE, LIKE SYSTEMS IN CANADA AND
GREAT BRITAIN

BYLINE: ANGIE DROBNIC HOLAN

SECTION: POLITIFACT: FLORIDA

LENGTH: 659 words


Says the health care law rations care, like systems in Canada and Great Britain.

Rick Scott on Monday, July 2nd, 2012 in an interview on Fox News

* * *

THE RULING: FALSE

Gov. Rick Scott continues to oppose the national health care law and said Friday
that Florida would be opting out of parts of the law.

In a blitz of media appearances over the week, Scott said the state would not
expand Medicaid, an existing health insurance program for the very poor. He also
said he wouldn't allow the state to open health insurance "exchanges," places
where consumers will comparison shop for health insurance.

Scott also repeated the claim that the health care law rations care. Scott said
driving down the costs of health care should be left to the free market, and
that expanding government-run health insurance programs to the uninsured was a
bad idea.

"Insurance is not the answer. (The answer is to) drive down the cost of health
care. You have insurance in places like U.K. and Canada, where they say, oh we
cover you. But you don't get it, because it's rationed. That's what's going to
happen," Scott said in an interview on Fox News on July 2.

Earlier in the interview, Scott said: "Look, government health care programs
everywhere in the world do three things. They promise you the world. They say,
oh we're going to cover everything. Then what they do is they run out of money
and they underpay hospitals, doctors, and guess what happens? They don't want to
take care of you. There's fewer of them, just like what's happened in England,
Canada, places like that."

Scott's answer is problematic on several levels. For one thing, people in the
United Kingdom and Canada do receive care. Sometimes patients have to wait for
appointments, but they do receive care.

More significantly, Scott implied that the types of systems in Canada and the
United Kingdom are what's going to happen under the current health care law.
That's not the case.

In Canada, the government pays the bills for health care for everyone. The
closest comparison for this country would be if Medicare (the health insurance
program for people over age 65) were extended to everyone. In the United
Kingdom, the government runs the National Health Service, directly owning
hospitals and employing doctors.

The health care law does neither of those two things. Instead, it leaves in
place the current systems of Medicare, Medicaid and employer-provided insurance.
It expands Medicaid coverage for the very poor, and offers credits to people of
modest means to buy insurance on their own. To make those purchases easier, it
creates health insurance exchanges, where plans have to meet minimum standards
and explain their coverage in plain language.

On the specific charge of "rationing," we've fact-checked several claims about
the health care law, that various parts of the law result in rationing. Scott's
statement doesn't refer to a specific part of the law.

Here's the bottom line: The health care law rations care no more nor less than
the current health care system does.

The current health care system -- whether it's private insurance, Medicare or
Medicaid -- does not allow people to have all the health care as they want.
Under the new law, people still can't have all the health care they want.

We rate Scott's statement False.

* * *

About this statement:

Published: Monday, July 2nd, 2012 at 7:09 p.m.

Subjects: Health Care

Sources: Fox News, Florida refusing to implement part of health care reform law,
July 2, 2012; Health Affairs, Toward Higher-Performance Health Systems: Adults'
Health Care Experiences In Seven Countries, 2007; PolitiFact, 'Rationing' and
other scare words, Aug. 25, 2009; PolitiFact, Pat Boone says IPAB rations care
to pay for 'wasteful' spending, March 15, 2012; PolitiFact, Top 5 falsehoods
about the health care law, June 27, 2012; Time magazine, Is Britain's
Health-Care System Really That Bad?, Aug. 18, 2009

Researched by: Angie Drobnic Holan

Edited by: Aaron Sharockman

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2) VIDEO: Florida Gov. Rick Scott appears on Fox News on July 2,
2012.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             206 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                     December 7, 2000 Thursday CITY EDITION

HEALTH CARE LAW HASN'T CUT COSTS YET;
LAWMAKERS THOUGHT A LAW WOULD HELP CUT HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS FOR SMALL
BUSINESSES, BUT LEGAL WRANGLING HAS KEPT THE MEASURE FROM PROVIDING ANY RELIEF.

BYLINE: Scott Carlson, Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 895 words


St. Paul business owner Steve Becher thought he would get a break from rising
insurance premiums when Minnesota passed a law in 1999 that expands
medical-coverage options for small companies.

He had predicted that the cost to provide health insurance for his 25 employees
might drop by up to 30 percent under the Small Business Alternative Health Care
Act. Under the experimental law, health insurers with less than a 3 percent
market share in Minnesota don't need to include all of the state's 37 health
care mandates in the policies they write for small employers. The mandates range
from such requirements as mental health coverage to certain surgical procedures.

State lawmakers hoped the new law would encourage insurance competition and make
health insurance more affordable for employers with fewer than 50 workers.
Business lobbies estimate that all of Minnesota's health care mandates add 20
percent to 22 percent to the cost of health insurance.

But 11 months since the law took effect, the measure is mired in legal
controversy. No insurance companies have been approved yet to offer health
insurance under the pilot program. Becher said his company, Snack Pack, a
distributor of vending machine snacks and foods, is facing a 40 percent increase
in its health care premiums next year.

Under the new law, the Minnesota Commerce Department set up three levels of
health care coverage for qualified insurers to write policies for small
employers. Under one plan, insurers are required to offer only 10 health care
mandates.

However, all three benefit plan levels require insurers to offer maternity
coverage, and that has become a sore point with business lobbies.

Pointing to a state Attorney General's Office opinion, the Commerce Department
says it must require maternity benefits, even under the alternative health care
act, so that Minnesota doesn't violate state and federal anti-discrimination
laws.

If the new insurance law can nullify the Minnesota Human Rights Act, "employers
could not only provide health plans which were unfair to pregnant or
childbearing women but also could provide health plans with reduced coverage for
certain employees based on their race," Stephen Warch, an assistant Minnesota
Attorney General, said in the opinion.

Business groups, citing legal opinions from attorneys for the state Legislature,
maintain that Minnesota lawmakers didn't intend to require small-employer health
plans to cover maternity benefits.

A spokesman for the Insurance Federation of Minnesota notes that more than 30
other states have human rights and alternative insurance laws similar to
Minnesota's, but don't require employers to carry maternity coverage.

Ken Richard, a Roseville financial consultant mainly for small businesses, notes
that maternity benefits can add 10 percent to 15 percent to the cost of health
insurance for an employer. It's a benefit that is not needed by small companies
with older workers, he adds.

The Insurance Federation of Minnesota agrees. "We shouldn't have to go with a
'one size fits all' approach when tailored (insurance) coverage is an option
that is available," says federation spokesman Mark Kulda.

Given the legal storm, the Chamber plans to ask state lawmakers to clarify and
extend the statute, which would otherwise expire Aug. 1, 2003. Bill Blazar, the
Chamber's chief lobbyist, says lawmakers need to extend the law so the state can
collect three years of data on the impact on small employers and the health
insurance market.

So far, only two insurers have applied to the Commerce Department to write
health care policies under Minnesota's new law. But neither John Alden Life
Insurance Co. nor Fortis Insurance Co., both divisions of Milwaukee-based Fortis
Health Inc., has completed the filing requirements, says Commerce Department
spokesman Bruce Gordon.

Gordon notes that the Commerce Department will give priority review to any
insurance filings under the alternative health care act.

That no insurers are licensed yet to write policies under the new law concerns
business lobbies and others, who note that many Minnesota businesses are facing
double-digit increases in their health insurance premiums next year. Because of
rising insurance premiums, growing numbers of small employers are being forced
to pass those costs on to workers or, in some cases, drop health insurance
altogether, say business leaders.

"Small employers are really bleeding on this issue," says Richard, who notes
that family insurance coverage can cost an employee and his or her company
$6,000 to $7,000 year. "There is a desperate need to minimize (health care)
mandates."

Until the state licenses insurers to write policies under the alternative health
care act, Becher expects he will have take steps to try and trim his higher
insurance costs. Those steps may include raising deductibles and office co-pays
for employees and requiring those on single coverage plans to pay 50 percent of
the cost of their health insurance, up from 40 percent, he says.

Becher notes that part of his higher costs for health insurance are due to two
employees undergoing cancer treatment. After next year, "I have no idea what we
will do," Becher says.

Scott Carlson, who covers business regulation and legal affairs, can be reached
at scarlson@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5470.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: NEALE VAN NESS, PIONEER PRESS Steve Becher,
owner of Snack Pack and Becher Enterprises in St. Paul, thought a
change in state law would help him with the high cost of health
insurance for employees at his small business.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             207 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday

Survey: New health-care law lowers number of uninsured

BYLINE: By Hillary Chabot, hchabot@lowellsun.com

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 279 words


BOSTON -- A new law mandating Bay State residents to have their own health
insurance has slowly chipped away at the overall number of uninsured residents,
according to a state survey released yesterday.

The number of people without coverage fell from 395,000 to 355,000, in the past
year, which is about 5.7 percent of the state population.

"This is a clear indication that health reform is succeeding," said Secretary of
Health and Human Services Judy Ann Bigby. "Even in our early phase of the law's
implementation, these findings confirm our success in reducing the number of
uninsured people across the entire Commonwealth."

The survey is the first evidence of how residents are reacting to the new law,
which requires everyone in the state to get health insurance or face tax
penalties.

The survey, conducted by the Division of Health Care and Policy and UMass
Boston, spoke with nearly 10,500 individuals and more than 4,000 households.

"We think the movement is certainly in the right direction. We are signing up
people far beyond our original projections," said Dick Powers, spokesman for the
Health Insurance Connector.

The state has made significant efforts to reduce the number of uninsured through
its implementation of health-care reform during the past year. Subsidized health
insurance, such as expanded MassHealth, along with Commonwealth Care and
Commonwealth Choice, have made it easier for people to get affordable insurance
coverage.

Many residents who earn too much to receive state subsidized care have balked at
the high price of the new mandatory insurance. Powers said the state will
consider waivers in the first year for those who can't afford the new law.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             208 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2001 by Orange County Bar Association
                              Orange County Lawyer

                                   May, 2001

                           43 Orange County Lawyer 40

LENGTH: 1295 words

COLUMN: FAMILY LAW CORNER: HEALTH INSURANCE REVIEWED

By Comm. Richard G. Vogl

Commissioner Richard G. Vogl is editor of the Family Law Corner.

TEXT:


 [*40]  A LEGISLATIVE CHANGE WHICH BECAME effective on January 1, 2001 requires
that the local child support agency enforcing a child support order must use the
federally mandated National Medical Support Notice, instead of the health
insurance coverage assignment order. This applies when the court has ordered
that a parent must provide health insurance. But California law holds that in
any case in which an amount is set for current support, the court must require
that health insurance coverage for a supported child shall be maintained by
either or both parents if that insurance is available at no cost or at
reasonable cost to the parent.

   It is important to note that the court may order "either or both"--as this is
often over-looked.  [*41]  What is meant by "reasonable cost"? When can the
court refuse to grant such an order? May an obligor parent quash such an order?
Does liability exist if the coverage is not provided?

NOTICE IS NECESSARY.

   Typically, it is the noncustodial parent who is ordered, as a matter of
course, to maintain that insurance. It is Family Code § 3761 which demands that
the court make a medical insurance order. Are lawyers forgetting to argue that
the court has the power to order the custodial parent to maintain the policy?
Isn't it more convenient for the custodial parent to be in charge of which
policy to take, and to be in control of reimbursement claims?

   If the custodial parent resides out of California, is it "reasonable" to
force the California parent to maintain a health insurance policy?

   When application is made for the insurance, there must be written notice of
the intent to seek a health insurance coverage assignment order, and this notice
may be transmitted by first-class mail, postage prepaid, or personally served at
least 15 days before the date of the filing of the application for the order.
But the notice may be provided in the initial pleading, and need not be a
separately filed request. Thus, if overlooked, this issue can slip by the
unaware family law counsel.

WHAT IS "HEALTH INSURANCE"?

   "Health insurance" includes: a) Vision care; b) dental care coverage; and c)
health care services by any type of health care delivery system under which
medical services could be provided to a dependent child of an absent parent.

   It would seem that "health care" does not include standard orthodontia costs.
See IRMO Hanchett, 199 Cal.App.3d 937. Likewise, the law is not clear as to
whether certain counseling must be covered.

WHAT IS "REASONABLE COST"?

   Our law provides that health insurance coverage is presumed to be reasonable
in cost if it is employment-related group health insurance or other group health
insurance, regardless of the service delivery mechanism. This presumption,
however, is rebuttable.

   The law provides that the cost is unreasonable if it exceeds 50% of the
obligor's disposable income. See § 706.052 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Once
in place, keeping the child support  [*42]  agency informed of changes is
mandated. The child support orders must include a provision requiring the child
support obligor to keep the agency informed of whether the obligor has health
insurance coverage at reasonable cost and, if so, the health insurance policy
information.

   What is good cause to deny the order?

   It is clear that Family Code § 3761 provides that the court shall order the
person providing health insurance to the obligor, to enroll the supported child
in the health insurance plan available to the obligor through the employer
unless the court makes a finding of good cause for not making the order.

   If the court determines that the cost of health insurance coverage is not
reasonable, the court shall state its reasons on the record.

   Good cause for not making a health insurance coverage assignment order is
limited to only one reason: the court must find that the health insurance
coverage assignment order would cause an extraordinary hardship to the obligor,
and in that case the court must specify the nature of the extraordinary hardship
and, whenever possible, a date by which the obligor shall obtain health
insurance coverage or be subject to a health insurance coverage assignment. See
Family Code § 3762.

   The obligated parent may make a motion to quash a health insurance coverage
assignment order if the order is unreasonable. The code suggests these grounds:
The amount to be withheld for premiums is greater than 50% of his or her
disposable earnings (see Code of Civil Procedure § 706.052); the amount of the
increased premium is unreasonable; the alleged obligor is not the obligor from
whom health insurance coverage is due; the child is or will be otherwise
provided health care coverage; the employer's choice of coverage is
inappropriate.

   Thus, where a California resident is being asked to maintain a California
policy where the children reside in another state, it may be possible to argue
that the employer's choice of coverage is inappropriate.

TIME LIMITS

   The notice of motion to quash the assignment order, including the required
declaration, must be filed with the court issuing the assignment order within 15
days after delivery of a copy of the order to the obligor parent. See Family
Code § 3765.

 [*43]  WHAT IF IT IS NOT AVAILABLE?

   If the court determines that health insurance coverage is not available at no
or reasonable cost, the court's order for support must contain a provision that
specifies that health insurance coverage shall be obtained if it becomes
available at no or reasonable cost. Upon health insurance coverage becoming
available to a parent, the parent must apply for that coverage.

   So shouldn't the custodial parent seek an order for some kind of continuous
reporting by the noncustodial parent as to whether or not the policy is
available?

EMPLOYER DUTIES

   In addition to covering the child, an employer must do all of the following:
a) notify the applicant for the assignment order or notice of assignment of the
commencement date of the coverage of the child; b) provide evidence of coverage
and any information necessary for the child to obtain benefits through the
coverage to both parents or the person having custody of the child and to the
child support agency when requested; c) upon request, provide all forms and
other documentation necessary for the purpose of submitting claims to the
insurance carrier which the employer or other person providing health insurance
usually provides to insureds. See Family Code § 3767.

   Yet careful attorneys have long been demanding copies of the policies, copies
of the care provider doctors and copies of pre-signed claim forms.

   If the employer willfully fails to comply with a valid health insurance
coverage assignment order entered and served on the employer, then they shall be
liable for the amount incurred in health care services that would otherwise have
been covered under the insurance policy, and may further be charged with
contempt of court.

   No employer may use a health insurance coverage assignment order as grounds
for refusing to hire a person or for discharging or taking disciplinary action
against an employee. An employer who violates this law may be assessed a civil
penalty of a maximum of $ 500.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Family LawChild SupportGeneral OverviewFamily LawDelinquency & DependencyGeneral
OverviewInsurance LawIndustry RegulationRatesSupporting Documentation


                             209 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

NA lawmakers debate amended health and marriage legislation

LENGTH: 594  words


Ma Dien Cu, a National Assembly deputy from the central province of Quang Ngai
and Phuong Thi Thanh from northern Bac Kan Province both said that health
insurance should be made compulsory to raise a sense of responsibility within
the community.


They said if the voluntary health insurance policy continued, it would be
difficult to realise the target of achieving national health insurance coverage
by 2020 as planned.
Deputies pointed out that the draft revised Health Insurance Law stipulated
compulsory health insurance, but there were no regulations about fines for those
who refused to register.
Nguyen Thi Phuc, a deputy from central Binh Thuan Province, stressed the need of
such a regulation to make the law truly effective.
Some deputies, however, still questioned the feasibility of a compulsory policy.
Among them, Nguyen Thi Bich Nhiem from the northern province of Yen Bai pointed
out that only 28 per cent of those participating in the policy voluntarily did
so without support from the Government.
Pham Thi Thu Hong from Binh Dinh said that health insurance was not appealing
enough to citizens, and total national health insurance coverage had so far
reached only 67 per cent. Most of those insured received support from the
Government, she added.
NA deputies also approved the revised Law on Thrift Practice and Waste
Prevention with a majority 87 per cent vote.
Reforming family law
Yesterday morning, lawmakers agreed that the Law on Marriage and Family should
be revised to handle previous shortcomings during.
Most deputies agreed that the bill should reflect the legal marriage age of 18
years old and above for all men and women.
Deputies Nguyen Van Tuyet from southern Ba Ria- Vung Tau Province and Ho Thi
Thuy from northern Vinh Phuc Province said that marriage and family regulations
should be synchronous with relevant regulations of the Civil Code and Civil
Procedures Code in recognising, implementing and protecting individual's civil
rights.
"Along with the country's socio-economic development, the quality of life has
improved remarkably since the law was first issued in 2000. Reducing the
marriage age for men from 20 to 18 years old is appropriate with the physical
and spiritual conditions of Vietnamese youths," said Tuyet.
Deputy Tuyet said that lowering the marriage age for men would not encourage
early marriage because the average marriage age of both men and women was higher
than the marriage age regulated by the law, according to the 2009 population and
housing census.

Some deputies said that regulations on the marriage age of 18 years old and
above would ensure Viet Nam's international commitments on gender equality.
The bill also replaced regulations on prohibiting marriage between same sex
couples, but stated that the State did not recognise same sex marriages as
legally binding.
Some deputies said that regulations should be added to handle issues arising
from same sex couples living together, and even organising public wedding
ceremonies.
The bill also permits surrogacy for humanitarian reasons, but prohibits
surrogacy for commercial purposes.
Deputies said that surrogacy for humanitarian purpose would create conditions
for couples who were unable to have children by themselves to start a family.
They also said it would need to be closely monitored to protect the rights of
women and children and to stop surrogacy being used for commercial purposes or
child trafficking. On the same day, deputies also passed the revised bidding
law.<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             210 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

Health cover for all employees. New insurance law

BYLINE: Jennifer Bell and Emily Cleland

LENGTH: 568  words


According to information obtained by The National¿s Arabic sister paper, Al
Ittihad, people and companies who fail to provide health insurance for their
employees will be fined a minimum of Dh10,000 per person.

A draft federal law will ensure health insurance for all employees in the
country, with employers risking minimum fines of Dh10,000 for each uncovered
worker.
And the draft states that any sponsor who tries to charge an employee for
providing them with health insurance can be fined up to Dh30,000, reports Al
Ittihad, the Arabic-language sister paper to The National. ¬ A federal authority
will be established to oversee health cover, and to transfer the employee´s
benefits when they move from one provider to another. ¬ As it stands, only Abu
Dhabi has mandatory insurance, with 98 per cent of its workers covered.

¬ Dr Haider Al Yousuf, director of health funding at Dubai Health Authority,
welcomed the draft, saying it would »make sure weaker members of society are
protected«. ¬ »The principles of a mandatory health-insurance law means it has
to have teeth,« Dr Al Yousuf said. »Therefore, the fine should be higher than
the cost of insuring a worker.« ¬ The draft says sponsors must submit proof of
cover for each worker electronically to relevant authorities. Any person who
gives incorrect details for a health-insurance service or benefit will be fined
Dh10,000 to Dh30,000. ¬ Penalties of between Dh100,000 and Dh500,000 will be
imposed on any insurance company or healthcare provider practising without a
licence from the relevant health authority. ¬ Failure to keep workers´ details
confidential will mean a fine of Dh50,000 to Dh200,000. ¬ The law has been
welcomed by members of the medical sector. ¬ »It´s definitely a good idea,« said
one Abu Dhabi healthcare worker. ¬ »So many people are coming without health
insurance to our hospital but we are helpless to help them, especially
labourers. It´s very sad. ¬ »Hopefully this will mean more people have health
insurance. It´s important that people have health insurance. ¬ »People in the
UAE come here to earn money and they are working for a company, so the company
should take care of them.« ¬ Abu Dhabi pharmacist Dr Hussein Haddad agreed. ¬
»Here in the UAE the medical treatment is very expensive, and procedures and
medicine compared with other countries is expensive,« Dr Haddad said. ¬ »Many
employees are on low salaries so they cannot afford any treatment for
themselves.« ¬ Dr Nisar Ahmed, insurance manager at Abu Dhabi´s Burjeel
Hospital, said health insurance was a necessity that any employer should
provide. ¬ »It´s just asking that they are physically fit and taken care of,« Dr
Ahmed said, adding that health care in the UAE was »quite expensive now«. ¬ »An
average person, he will not be able to afford one inpatient admission of even
two days. ¬ »Employers can have the security that if their employees are taken
care of they will have more productivity and more efficiency in their work.« ¬
Other parts of the draft law include rules to ensure anyone who provides proof
of coverage will receive treatment, regardless of whether they attend a centre
listed with their insurer. ¬ Coverage must be continued in the event of a
dispute between insurer and healthcare provider, and insurance companies will be
banned from running healthcare centres and vice versa. ¬  ¬ jbell@thenational.ae
¬ ecleland@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2013 Abu Dhabi Media Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             211 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Company health insurance dwindles

BYLINE: Kelly Kennedy, @kellyskennedy, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 436 words


washington The availability of employer-sponsored insurance has fallen by about
10% over the past decade, which has spurred an increase in the  number of
Americans without health insurance, according to a report released today.

"This documents that in virtually every state across the country, there has been
a steady decline in employers that provide coverage over the past 10 years,"
said Andrew Hyman, director of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation's health care
coverage team. "It would be a real stretch to say this was caused by
anticipation of the Affordable Care Act," President Obama's 2010 health care
law.

The universal coverage requirement and the state health insurance exchanges
needed to make it work will start Jan. 1. Some employers have said they may drop
health insurance because it would be cheaper to pay a $2,000 fine and have
employees buy insurance through the exchanges instead of paying an average of
$15,000 to buy that employee health insurance.

Other employers have said they will drop employees' hours below 30 a week to
avoid the requirement to provide insurance or pay a fee.

If so, employers would be following a trend that started before the health care
law passed in 2010. The new study found that employer-sponsored coverage dropped
from 69% to 60% between 1999 and 2010. The amount each employee paid annually
for insurance  more than doubled in that period from $435 to $1,056 for an
individual and from $1,526 to $3,842 for a family.

The Johnson foundation's State Health Access Data Assistance Center conducted
the research. Coverage  varied from state to state, based on state law,
regional employment rates and average employer size.

Hyman said the steady decline in coverage has come in spite of changes in the
economy and employment rates throughout the decade.

"So now we're all wondering how it will change with the implementation of the
ACA," he said. The "silver lining," he said, is that with the new law, even
those who don't receive coverage through their employer will be able to get a
plan through the health exchange system.

Predictions on the law's effects vary. The Congressional Budget Office says 3
million to 5 million fewer people will have employer-subsidized insurance. A
Towers Watson survey of more than 500 companies with more than 1,000 employees
found none of the companies  plan to drop insurance because of the law.

However, health insurance brokers say their business clients are "staying the
course" on their current health plans, said John Torinus, co-founder of
Successful Entrepreneur Investors who has served on several health care reform
task forces.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             212 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                              July 21, 2006 Friday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

Insurance board plans private retreat;
State law exception cited

BYLINE: By John J. Monahan, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


-- The new state board charged with determining how much people will have to pay
for health insurance under the state's new mandatory health insurance law has
decided to hunker down behind closed doors next month in a lengthy private
"retreat" to discuss its mission and strategies.

The 10-member board, the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority,
decided yesterday to hold the retreat outside of public view to discuss goals
and strategies involved in reaching agreements on future health insurance
programs in the state.

Officials of the board cited a confidential legal advisory provided by a private
law firm that said such an extensive private meeting would not violate the state
Open Meeting Law.

That legal opinion was prepared at public expense by Gregory A. Sandomirsky of
Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo, one of the highest priced and
most politically connected law firms in Boston. In it Mr. Sandomirsky says an
exemption to the Open Meeting Law that provides for "chance meetings" by public
board and commission members at social gatherings could be expanded to allow the
planned multiday private meeting of the board.

State Secretary of Administration and Finance Thomas Trimarco, chairman of the
connector authority, proposed the retreat, saying it would give board members a
chance to get to know one another better as they prepare to design the nation's
first-of-its-kind universal health care program.

Executive Director Jonathan Kingsdale, however, indicated he expects the retreat
to delve deeply into affairs that the board will deliberate over in setting up
the new health insurance programs.

He told the board he expects it would include briefings on how the state's
public health program works, the operation of insurance markets in the state and
information on private health insurance companies. Also, he said, it would be a
chance for the board "to focus on effective decision making and how we can work
most effectively together."

In addition, he said the retreat could include discussions of the objectives of
the authority, differences of opinion among board members, and the board's
goals. Mr. Kingsdale asked Mr. Sandomirsky whether that would "trip a line" in
terms of violating state law and was told "not necessarily, if it is kept
general."

Board member Delores Mitchell asked what would be the legal difference in
discussing "issues of public importance" such as gaining public support for
programs to get all state residents insured. Mr. Sandomirsky told her if the
board "sticks to educational information" it would be allowed without violating
state law, but that it may be a problem "if you got into a discussion of
affordability" of health insurance.

It was unknown how long a retreat would be planned, or where it would be held
next month. The board agreed to a proposal to work that out through private
e-mails.

Several board members said they were uncertain whether health care companies,
insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies and others who stand to benefit
from the expansion of health insurance coverage would attend the retreat.

The state Open Meeting Law requires all state and local boards and commissions
to publicly post their meetings and hold them open to the public, unless
specific discussions fit into several exemptions. They can be closed to the
public under the law for discussions of specific topics such as labor
negotiations, discussion of prices for sale and purchase of real estate,
deployment of police patrols and personnel disciplinary discussions. Case law
also has established the law is not violated in cases where a majority of a
board or commission members happen to meet at a social gathering.

To close a meeting to the public, the law requires a vote of the board to do so,
and requires minutes be kept of closed meetings and discussions that occur at
those sessions. Yesterday, Mr. Trimarco settled the decision to hold the retreat
without a vote, saying he thought there was a "consensus" among the board to
hold it next month.

In his letter assuring board members they could hold the private retreat, Mr.
Sandomirsky wrote that in his reading of the law and court rulings, the
exemption allows boards and commissions to plan social meetings, as long as they
do not deliberate or reach final agreements on government matters at those
meetings. In that regard, he said, board members would have to "ensure that the
retreat remains social in nature at all times."

While no board members objected, Celia Wcislo, a labor representative on the
board, asked at the meeting about the certainty of the legality of the closed
retreat, saying, "The worst thing that could happen is it may be seen as
something it isn't."

Mr. Trimarco maintained, "This is not an attempt to get around the Open Meeting
Law."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             213 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Independent Record (Helena, Montana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday

Bill aims to block health insurance clearinghouse

BYLINE: Mike Dennison, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 677 words


Feb. 16--If you believe the federal health-reform law is a bad idea, then you
should stop Montana from setting up an Internet clearinghouse to sell health
insurance -- which is the "linchpin" of federal reform, a state senator said
Tuesday.

"This is our chance to say, 'We don't want to be part of it,' " Sen. Jason
Priest, R-Red Lodge, said of his bill prohibiting Montana from setting up a
health-insurance exchange, which is required by the federal law. "What the
federal government wants is for us to be their partner in breaking (health
care). ...

"Implementing the exchange is implementing the (federal bill). And I'm opposed
to the bill."

Yet the state's largest health insurer, unions and consumer groups spoke against
Priest's Senate Bill 228 Tuesday, saying if Montana refuses to set up the
exchange, the federal government will design it for the state.

"Passing this bill doesn't get us out of federal health reform," Frank Cote of
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Montana told the Senate Business and Labor
Committee. "It just puts the federal government in control. Do you think we'll
have less regulation (that way)? I don't think so."

Priest's SB228 forbids Montana from setting up its own exchange and says any
federal money given to Montana for that purpose must be returned.

The bill conflicts with efforts by Democratic state Auditor Monica Lindeen,
whose office has received $1 million from the feds to start laying the
groundwork for a Montana exchange. The exchange would be an Internet
clearinghouse for private health-insurance policies, offered for sale to the
public beginning in 2014.

Lindeen's office authored and is pushing House Bill 124, which outlines duties
of the exchange and sets up an oversight board.

On Tuesday, the House Business and Labor Committee added a revenue provision to
HB124, allowing it to stay alive for at least another few weeks.

Rep. Elsie Arntzen, R-Billings, who chairs the House panel, said lawmakers are
looking for "a Montana solution" on the issue of health-insurance exchanges.

Many Republicans in the Montana Legislature have vowed to do whatever they can
to block federal health-reform law -- including defying federal directives for
the states to start implementing portions of the law.

Priest told the Senate committee Tuesday that the insurance exchange is the
"linchpin, the choke-point" of the federal law, because it dictates what type of
health-insurance policies must be sold to millions of Americans, through the
exchanges.

"You don't really get to offer a product that

doesn't fit into one of these nice, neat little packages," he said. "This is not
about consumer choice or a Montana-made solution, or a true marketplace."

But opponents of his bill -- who are supporters of creating an exchange -- said
Priest wasn't telling the whole story.

Cote said consumers don't have to buy their insurance from an exchange, and that
other products will continue to be available in the open market.

The only people who must buy on the exchange are those who wish to get federal
subsidies to help them pay for their health insurance, starting in 2014 -- and
Blue Cross believes that most of its policies will qualify for listing on the
exchange, Cote said.

Barbara Swehla of the Montana Nurses Association also said the "federal
government isn't the bad guy here," and that the exchanges should make it easier
for many without health coverage to obtain it.

"Let's cooperate under the current law and be positioned for our future in
health care," she said. "We need to care about all of our citizens."

Jesse Laslovich, chief counsel for Lindeen, said her office already has been
working with federal officials on a state-designed exchange, and so far they've
been agreeable.

To see more of the Independent Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.helenair.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110216-HE-Bill-aims-to-block-health-insurance-clearinghouse-20110216

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HE


                       Copyright 2011 Independent Record


                             214 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday

Washington: Rep. Gosar offers health insurance reform bill

LENGTH: 172  words

DATELINE: Washington


The American Dental Association has issued the following news release:

Dentist/Rep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.) introduced ADA-supported legislation Feb. 28
to amend the 1945 McCarran-Ferguson Act, which exempted the health insurance
industry from antitrust laws. H.R. 911, The Competitive Health Insurance Reform
Act of 2013, would restore the application of federal antitrust laws to the
business of health insurance.

The Association, which has long supported repeal of the antitrust exemption,
will seek to build bipartisan support for H.R. 911 in the 113th Congress.

"As a practicing dentist for 25 years, I have experienced first-hand the
difficulties patients face with their insurance companies," Rep. Gosar said. "My
legislation would restore competition within the health insurance market and
apply antitrust laws. Amending the McCarran-Ferguson Act will benefit patients
across the country with lower prices and more choices."

H.R. 911 was referred to the House Judiciary Committee.

For more information please visit: http://www.ada.org

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             215 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                   M1 Edition

Health care debate heats up Health: Two candidates talk repealing law

BYLINE: By James Fuller jfuller@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 631 words


When it comes to the costs of health care, none of the four candidates for the
14th Congressional District agree on the best route to more affordable medicine.

Incumbent Democrat Bill Foster, Republican Randy Hultgren, Green Party Candidate
Dan Kairis and Libertarian write-in Doug Marks all believe the recently passed
health care reform law is flawed. But only two candidates believe the law is so
bad it must be repealed.

Hultgren told attendees of a luncheon in St. Charles last week that changes
created in the new law do nothing to address the cost of health care. He said he
would've voted against both the major Democratic versions of the law and will
work to undo "Obamacare."

"I think Republicans blew it on this," Hultgren said of the new law. "But I
think Democrats blew it even more. We need to get rid of what we've got. Let's
repeal it."

Hultgren said he's particularly disappointed in what's become known as the "1099
provision" of the new health care law. The provision requires companies to
submit a report to the IRS for every business-to-business transaction made that
exceeds $600. Critics view the provision as a nightmare of paperwork and
accounting for as many as 30 million small businesses.

"This is going to kill small businesses," Hultgren said.

Although he voted in favor of the new health care reform law, Foster was one of
239 Democrats who recently voted to repeal the provision. That vote failed to
receive a two-thirds majority, meaning the provision remains on the books for
now. Foster has pledged to work to repeal the provision permanently. He's also
spent quite a bit of time explaining why he supported the overall health care
reform changes.

Among those reasons, Foster has said requiring more people to have insurance
will spare people who've always had insurance from footing the bill for the
uninsured through cost increases. Foster has also said eliminating pre-existing
conditions as a means of disqualifying someone from insurance coverage was
important to keep people from dying simply because they don't have or can't
afford health insurance.

Marks said the government forcing people to buy health insurance is one of the
major problems he has with the new law.

"They are taking away from the free market by mandating everyone gets covered,"
Marks said. "And as government puts more and more controls on these insurance
companies, they are going to drop out of the business. Then we'll have a full,
government-controlled insurance plan. That's socialism."

Marks favors private health savings accounts and an end to employers forcing
their workers to have insurance coverage through them. He favors a consumer
environment more like getting auto insurance but using a 401(k)-type account
restricted to use for medical needs. Marks also believes health insurance
companies should be required to do business in all 50 states to increase
competition. None of that, Marks said, is delivered in the health care reform
Congress recently delivered.

"I would run, sprint and dance all the way down to repeal that sucker," Marks
said.

Kairis isn't ready to go as far as repealing the new law. He said that would
take people who couldn't get health insurance before back to the old problem of
falling into bankruptcy when a catastrophic medical emergency occurs. Kairis
favors the elimination of health insurance companies in favor of a health tax.
He said he'd rather have the government try to run the health insurance system
with lower overhead than private companies.

"We really have a publicly-financed health care system already," Kairis said.
"The public is just paying it through their health insurance premiums. The
problem with the new law is it might not change anything, and more people are
going to be paying millions to the health insurance industry."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             216 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                               November 25, 1996

Gradison: Health Issues High On Public Agenda

BYLINE: BY MARY JANE FISHER

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


American voters continue to put health care reform in the "top rung" of issues
that concern them, according to a national post-election survey released by the
Health Insurance Association of America.

"Health care is right up there with the other major issues," HIAA President Bill
Gradison told reporters recently at a "post-election look ahead" press
conference on federal and state health reform and the new Congress.

The states have a big job ahead in implementing the requirements of the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, co-sponsored by Sens. Nancy
Kassebaum, R-Kan., and Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and signed into law by
President Clinton, Mr. Gradison said.

Looking beyond enactment of the Kassebaum-Kennedy bill into law, Mr. Gradison
called 1996 "a water-shed year" in terms of the regulation of health insurance
plans by the federal government.

"It is clear that the federal government, as well as the states, is in the
business of specifying certain benefits, whether it's for an ERISA plan, a
managed care plan or a regular insurance policy," he said.

Among the health insurance mandates that may come up in the 105th Congress are
extension of mental health parity benefits, coverage for experimental
treatments, emergency room coverage based on a "prudent person" criteria, and
length of hospital stay for mastectomies, according to Mr. Gradison.

Another possible mandate affecting employers is President Clinton's proposal to
extend health insurance coverage for short-term unemployment, he said.

The second major area for congressional attention is expected to be anti-managed
care proposals, Mr. Gradison added.

"We're delighted with the outcomes [on anti-managed care initiatives] in Oregon
and California," Mr. Gradison said. "Both states turned them down by substantial
margins."

Anti-managed care measures expected to be offered by members of Congress,
particularly those who are physicians, include "anti-gag" laws, prohibition on
disclosure of terms of provider contracts, and out-of-network options, he said.

Other subjects which could see hearings, he noted, could be genetic testing,
privacy concerns, fraud and abuse and domestic violence.

While saying that HIAA remains "strongly in favor" of universal coverage and
wants to extend coverage to groups that need it, Mr. Gradison cautioned that it
doesn't want to see the relationship of the employer as the provider of health
insurance weakened.

"We think it would be counter-productive for people who are already covered to
pay [through higher premiums] for health insurance for those who don't have it,"
he said, adding HIAA believes it would be better for the federal government to
provide funds for families to buy health insurance.

"I don't know any way to extend coverage for health insurance without money on
the table," he added. For example, he said, it would be better to give the
unemployed cash to buy health insurance, probably through Medicaid.

"My concern is we don't want to reduce coverage by employers for some children
to give coverage to others."

LOAD-DATE: December 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1996 The National Underwriter Company


                             217 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              June 3, 2014 Tuesday

KEL to host talk on mandatory health insurance law on June 14

LENGTH: 195  words


Kanara Entrepreneurs Ltd (KEL) will host a session on 'Mandatory Health
Insurance Law in Dubai' at the India Club here Saturday June 14 at 6.30 pm. The
talk will be delivered by Albert Rodrigues, managing director of Millennium
Insurance Brokers LLC.


Dubai Health Authority (DHA) has recently issued the "Mandatory Hearth Insurance
Law" making health insurance compulsory for all residents of Dubai. The law
applies to nationals, residents, visitors, employers, sponsors, health care
providers, insurance companies and brokers, third party administrators and any
other persons as determined by the Authority.
With the aging and ever changing lifestyle, maintaining good health is
challenging by itself and if fallen ill, getting affordable medical attention is
an issue that cannot be ignored.
To provide clarity on the impact of this new law and be prepared for its
implementation, KEL is conducting a session to its members and interested
guests. The session will provide an insight into health insurance and discuss
options for stakeholders as employers, employees and sponsors of dependants.
© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
(Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             218 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            October 31, 2011 Monday

Analyst: Health insurance overhaul law needs a hard look by Legislature

BYLINE: Seth Koenig BDN Staff

LENGTH: 819 words


PORTLAND, Maine -- The head of the Maine Center for Economic Policy said state
lawmakers are due for a "gut check" on the controversial health care law passed
during the last session.


Garrett Martin, executive director of the left-leaning think tank, dueled with
Joel Allumbaugh, health insurance expert with the right-leaning Maine Heritage
Policy Center, Monday in a debate held in Portland at the University of Maine
School of Law. In that setting, Martin said legislators will need to summon the
political will necessary to reopen the health insurance law and make changes
during the upcoming session, in part, to control rates.


Both men said lawmakers and stakeholders should take care to ensure the
conversation about how to improve health care access, affordability and
insurance is not derailed by partisan politics.


During the forum Monday, Martin revealed skepticism it will be when state
lawmakers reconvene in January. He said LD 1333, Maine's recently passed health
insurance overhaul law, needs a hard look.


"The Legislature has a chance to revisit this proposal and improve it," Martin
told a room full of law students and members of the public. "The question is,
will they?"


The Legislative Council, made up of party leaders in the House and Senate, met
Monday to decide which bills to allow for consideration in the session that
begins in January. Several addressed changes to the recently passed health care
reform package but not all made it through the council.


Martin and Allumbaugh agreed Monday that major work remains both in-state and
nationwide as policymakers tackle rising health care costs, which in turn drive
up insurance prices in an economy when many Americans can least afford it.


They disagreed on the impact of LD 1333, however.


"You have to separate our health care challenges with our health insurance
industry," said Allumbaugh, a two-time board president of the Maine Association
of Health Underwriters. "We need to make our health care system affordable and
accessible no matter where you live, but [increasing] our insurance regulations
are not how we get there.


"I agree that this [law] doesn't solve the bigger problem," he said, "but I
disagree in that [I feel] this is a huge step forward in stabilizing the
insurance market."


Martin argued that the law's elimination of insurance rate reviews and the
Advisory Council on Health Systems Development forfeit much of the state's
oversight of health insurance companies, while the highly touted provision
allowing Mainers to shop across state lines for insurance is a political "red
herring," a strong talking point that won't drive down prices through increased
competition as promised.


Martin said that in the upcoming legislative session lawmakers should reinstate
the advisory council and rate review process, which he said proved its value
when it held Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Maine to a 5.2 percent rate
increase earlier this year in the face of a proposed 9.7 percent rate hike.


He also said the law's reinsurance program, which uses a monthly $4 fee charged
to Mainers with private insurance plans to create a subsidy offsetting the cost
of higher-risk clients to the insurance companies, should be extended to small
group buyers. Currently, only high-risk individual buyers benefit from the
subsidy. Martin also said the Maine Bureau of Insurance should be charged with
collecting data on the health insurance law and reporting back to the
Legislature.


During the debate, Allumbaugh defended the law, saying previous in-state rate
limits restricting insurers from charging their oldest and most rural clients
any more than 1.5 times what they charge their youngest and least expensive
clients effectively drove away younger, healthier insurance buyers. Instead of
keeping costs down for elderly and rural buyers, he said, it drove costs up for
younger, urban customers.


The new law allows insurance companies to charge rates three times as expensive
for older, higher-risk clients as for younger, lower-risk ones -- and the law
includes an additional 1.5 multiplier based on geography and access to medical
care. By allowing the gap between highest-risk and lowest-risk customers to
grow, lowering prices for younger and healthier buyers, Allumbaugh argued the
law promises to attract those buyers back into the pool and help stabilize rates
for everyone.


Anthem, the state's largest health insurance carrier, reports having less than
300 customers between the ages of 18 and 24 in the state of Maine, Allumbaugh
said. The company has nearly 1,800 from the same age group in New Hampshire,
where rates gaps are less restrictive.


He also lauded the law for provisions creating a tax credit for businesses
promoting employee wellness, saying long-term solutions for controlling health
care costs -- and by extension, insurance costs -- should create incentives for
individuals to reduce hospital trips by living healthier.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Bangor Daily News


                             219 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             April 11, 2017 Tuesday

25 health insurance law violators in Dubai fined; six referred to prosecution
for fraud

BYLINE: Staff Report

LENGTH: 519 words


Fines ranging from Dh10,000 to Dh80,000 slapped on health centres, clinics,
insurance brokers and insurance companies

Staff Report

Dubai: The Dubai Health Authority (DHA) on Tuesday said it has fined 25 health
centers, clinics, insurance brokers and insurance companies for violating the
mandatory Dubai Health Insurance Law, while it has referred 6 clinics to
prosecution for potential fraudulent activities.

Violations were found during surprise and routine inspections conducted by the
authority's Health Funding Department as well as from member complaints.

Dr Haidar Al Yousef, the Director of the Health Funding Department at DHA, said
the fines imposed on these health centers, clinics, insurance brokers and
insurance companies ranged from Dh10,000 to Dh80,000.

"Some healthcare providers and insurers didn't comply completely with the Health
Insurance Law and the circulars issued by the health funding department. We
observed is through inspection visits, compliance meetings as well complaints
received from different parties involved in the system. Therefore, we have
resorted to fining them to avoid such acts in the future," he said.

Dr Al Yousef revealed that the violations include but are not limited to:

1. Healthcare provider altering the diagnosis to get claims paid.

2. Healthcare provider submitting claims for non-performed services.

3. Healthcare provider submit partial case details to get coverage and get
claims settled.

4. Beneficiary abuse of the health insurance card.

5. Ordering unnecessary services and laboratories.

6. Healthcare provider submit the invoices and get payment before even the
services done to the members in which in most of the cases the patient don't
come back to complete the services - example: dental and physiotherapy sessions.

7. Delay insurance companies in issuing the health insurance cards or activation
of the Emirates ID.

8. Non-compliance of the insurance companies with the customer satisfaction
level required by the DHA, especially the front desk and employees handling call
center.

9. Insurer market or advertise wrong information without verification from DHA.

10. Insurer practice health insurance in Dubai market without DHA/HFD license.

11. Insurer deals with unlicensed companies practicing health insurance in Dubai
market without DHA/HFD license.

Dr Al Yousef said violating facilities got a warning followed by a fine and some
were even referred to prosecution and might face criminal punishment due to
potential fraudulent activities.

The fines range between Dh10,000 to Dh80,000, based on violation and the number
of times the violation was repeated-- in line with Law No. 7 of 2016. The law
aims to protect the rights of individuals by ensuring that they are covered by
the health insurance.

Employers and sponsors who fail to provide mandatory health insurance cover are
now liable to a fine of Dh500 per month. Apart from the fine, no new visa will
be granted and no existing visas renewed without health insurance, according to
DHA.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/34/57/41/149198499646.jpg

Dr Haidar Al Yousuf

http://imgs.syndigate.info/34/57/13/149198499699.jpg



LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2017 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             220 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                          December 11, 2013 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UNINSURED SEEKING HELP TO ENROLL

BYLINE:  Tom Corwin  Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 366 words


Like many of the long-term uninsured, Carlethia Dorsey knew she needed to sign
up for health insurance next year and wanted to take advantage of the Affordable
Care Act through the health insurance marketplaces.

The question was how.

"I didn't know how to sign up and go about it," said Dorsey, 61.

Her story is not unusual. A poll released Tuesday showed only about

7 percent of uninsured Americans felt "very prepared" to sign up for health
insurance and that nearly a third had not even heard of the marketplaces that
many will use to sign up.

Worse, 61 percent of the uninsured - whom the law was designed to help - said
they have not done anything to prepare to get health insurance, and 55 percent
said they were still "not sure" what they would do to comply with the health
insurance mandate, according to the survey by the Transamerica Center for Health
Studies.

Only 5 percent said they were planning to forgo insurance and pay the fine. Of
those who said they would not sign up for insurance, 38 percent said it was
because they did not support the law "on principle," according to the survey.

On the positive side, 35 percent of those who had not been able to get health
insurance because of a pre-existing condition said they would get insurance
through the law. As part of the federal act, insurers cannot deny coverage for
adults with pre-existing conditions as of Jan. 1.

To help her get signed up, Dorsey was able to turn to navigator Terri Gant, of
Medical Associates Plus at Belle Terrace.

They created an account for Dorsey but were stymied by the Web site's being
overloaded Tuesday; visitors were asked to wait, a message that continued to
appear late into the afternoon.

Dorsey said she is determined to get it done.

Gant, who holds regular sessions in the community, spends a lot of her time
educating people on how to enroll before she jumps in to provide individual
help.

Dorsey said she is grateful for the help but believes the solution lies in a
higher source than whoever is trying to fix the Web site.

"I'm patient," she said. "I'm going to wait on the Lord. I'm not going to wait
on man. I'm waiting on the Lord."

Reach Tom Corwin at (706) 823-3213

or tom.corwin@augustachronicle.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             221 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday

Dubai's DMCC Launches Health Insurance For Member Firms

LENGTH: 336  words


Dubai Multi Commodities Centre (DMCC) has launched a health insurance solution
for all its members in partnership with insurance firms Daman and Insure Direct,
it said in a statement.


The announcement comes as the government ruling that requires compulsory health
insurance for all employees comes into effect next month.
DMCC's health insurance solution has been tailored for its members so that both
start-ups and SMEs can avail of the benefits that are usually available to large
corporates, the free zone said.
Policy holders will benefit from features such as pre-existing conditions
coverage and fixed premiums for all age categories, the statement added. The
insurance will also provide immediate coverage for current and chronic medical
conditions along with full maternity coverage where applicable.
"A key element of DMCC's long-term free zone strategy is our commitment to
provide member companies with the products and services they require to
innovate, grow and succeed here in Dubai," said Gautam Sashittal, CEO, DMCC.
Kenneth Maw, managing director, Insure Direct (Brokers) said: "Partnering with
DMCC and Daman allows us to broaden our network to offer comprehensive and
cost-effective solutions that complies with the DMCC Free Zone regulations as
well as the forthcoming health insurance law of Dubai."
Last year, Dubai passed a law that made health insurance mandatory for all
employees working in the emirate.
As per the rule, companies with 1000 or more employees will have to cover their
staff before the end of October 2014. Meanwhile, those with 100 to 999 employees
have until the end of July 2015 and firms with less than 100 employees will need
to provide health insurance to their staff before the end of June 2016.
All spouses, dependents and domestic workers will also have to be covered by
June 2016, the Dubai Health Authority said.
The new law also stipulates that it is the responsibility of employers to
provide all their employees with health insurance schemes. 2014 Legal Monitor
Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                             222 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             March 30, 2012 Friday

Rebates coming for health insurance costs

BYLINE: By Jay Hancock

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 284 words


WASHINGTON - Thanks to hefty profits and a requirement in the health law that
takes effect this year, insurers will send subscribers hundreds of millions of
dollars in rebate checks this August. But the industry and the Obama
administration are at odds over proposed language in a letter that's to go out
with the checks, as well as who's to be notified.

The administration may require insurers to send notices about rebate rules even
to customers who aren't getting rebates. America's Health Insurance Plans, an
industry lobby, called that "unnecessary and illogical."

It also objects to a proposed message for rebate recipients that mentions the
health law in the second sentence, describing the message's language as
"inflexible and highly prescriptive."

"This letter is to inform you that you will receive a refund of a portion of
your health insurance premiums," the letter begins. "This refund is required by
the Affordable Care Act - the health reform law."

Republicans say the proposal would force industry to pay for what amounts to
Democratic campaign literature weeks before November's elections.

The 2010 health law requires insurers to make partial refunds to subscribers or
employers if the companies don't spend a certain portion of the premiums they
charge - 80 to 85 percent in most cases - on medical care.

The measure was intended to boost spending on treatment and reduce insurers'
administrative costs and profits.

Because of a moderation in 2011 health care spending and outsize industry
profits, analysts expect this year's rebates to be substantial.

Up to 9 million Americans could get checks totaling up to $1.4 billion. Rebates
in the individual-policy market could average $164 apiece.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             223 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                             March 22, 2010 Monday

Is Israel's healthcare a model for US?;
Industry heads point out the pros and cons.

BYLINE: Shay Niv

LENGTH: 419 words


"Obama's achievement is great at the moral level," said Assuta Medical Centers
chairman Prof. Shuki Shemer, who helped design Israel's National Health
Insurance Law, 5754-1994.

"The recognition of the duty of every citizen to buy health insurance is obvious
to us in Israel, but in the world's superpower 20% of the population has not had
any insurance until now. A pregnant woman can come to give birth without ever
having seen a doctor. That's why this is a real revolution and a great step
forward."

Shemer adds, however, that the US healthcare bill was a "only tactical measure",
at least in its current phase, which expands health insurance to more of the US
population. "Even after this reform, there will be many differences between
different insured persons, and strong and wasteful private medicine. US
employers will have to continue buying insurance, and Obama said during the
crisis that many companies collapsed because they could not meet these
payments."

Shemer points to the irony that while the Israeli National Health Insurance Law
is undergoing steady disintegration, the Americans realized that they had to
strengthen the public health system, which barely exists. "The Israeli system is
good, but we cannot boast about it today, because many people can't buy
medication because of the self-participation," he says.

Clalit Health Services insures 53% of all Israelis. Clalit CEO Eli Defes
believes that one of the most important aspects of the US reform is the banning
of preexisting conditions by insurance companies.

When asked what the US ought to learn from the Israeli model, he says, "Our
system is very lean and efficient. In the US, the money goes to huge salaries
and costs unrelated to health."

Defes adds that the designers of the US healthcare reform recently visited
Israel, and were impressed by the computerization of Israeli health funds. "In
the US, insurance companies refer policyholders to various services providers,
and no one is connected to each other. In Israel, the family doctor sees in the
computer exactly where you were hospitalized, what medications you received, and
what treatments you undertook."

"Globes": What should the US learn from Israel?

Defes: "Not to turn into service providers themselves or become the owners of
hospitals (as is the case in Israel). Regulation should let the power of the
market do its thing."

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on
March 22, 2010

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2010

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             224 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday

Survey: New law reducing number of uninsured

BYLINE: By Hillary Chabot

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 292 words


BOSTON -- A new law mandating Bay State residents have their own health
insurance has slowly chipped away at the overall number of uninsured residents,
according to a state survey released yesterday.

The number of people without coverage fell from 395,000 to 355,000, in the past
year, which is about 5.7 percent of the state population.

"This is a clear indication that health reform is succeeding," said Secretary of
Health and Human Services Judy Ann Bigby. "Even in our early phase of the law's
implementation, these findings confirm our success in reducing the number of
uninsured people across the entire Commonwealth."

The survey is the first evidence of how residents are reacting to the new law,
which requires everyone in the state to obtain health insurance or face tax
penalties starting January 2008.

The survey, conducted by the Division of Health Care and Policy and the
University of Massachusetts-Boston, spoke with nearly 10,500 individuals and
more than 4,000 households starting in January 2007.

"We think the movement is certainly in the right direction. We are signing up
people far beyond our original projections," said Dick Powers, spokesman for the
Health Insurance Connector.

The state has made significant efforts to reduce the number of uninsured through
its implementation of health care reform over the last year. Subsidized health
insurance such as expanded MassHealth, along with Commonwealth Care and
Commonwealth Choice; have made it easier for people to get affordable insurance
coverage. Many residents who are earning too much to receive state subsidized
care have balked at the high price of the new mandatory insurance.

Powers said the state will consider waivers in the first year for those who
can't afford the new law.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             225 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            April 8, 1993, Thursday

To cut health-care costs, stop tourist bashing

BYLINE: Robert Akermancosts; health; travel; safety

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 16

LENGTH: 462 words


Two stories out of my home state of Florida made the national news in the last
few days. One was that Gov. Lawton Chiles is launching a big experiment in
"managed competition" in health care. The other was that recent criminal attacks
on tourists have set off a panic affecting the state's leading industry, and the
governor is even trying to get federal help in the matter.

I have no hostility toward Lawton Chiles - quite the contrary. He's from the
town that was my last place of residence in Florida, and I "knew him when." He
is both conscientious and competent.

But safer streets would be a good thing for ordinary citizens, not just
tourists. And the juxtaposition of a plea for federal help in law enforcement
with an ambitious program for health-care reform does tempt me to ask why
government so often ventures into new fields, such as health care, when it isn't
performing well in the fields it has always been expected to handle, such as
basic law enforcement.

It is a trend in government at all levels, and that's why I am not really
singling out Gov. Chiles or devoting special attention to Florida; the only
thing peculiar to Florida is that the two big stories occurred in the same week.
In Washington there is usually a little more time than that between the
revelation that some long-established program has broken down - say, deposit
insurance for banks - and the announcement that government is going to take on a
new function, such as health insurance for all.

"Managed competition" seems to be a key concept in the national health-care
reform which the administration task force headed by Hillary Clinton will soon
present to us. I have grave doubts about what I have heard about it so far. It
seems to me that it could combine the disadvantages of a private
health-insurance system with those of a government-controlled system, without
securing the advantages of either.

Why would "pools" of employers have any more clout with providers of health care
than giant companies have now? If "competition" is the answer, why isn't it
working now? How would restricting patients' freedom of choice really result in
more "competition"? Does "global budgeting" mean anything other than government
price controls - and if that is what it means, why should private insurance
companies be involved at all?

Since Florida is committed to the "managed competition" experiment, I'd like to
see how it works before endorsing it as a national approach. But politics has
its imperatives, and the Clintons aren't about to wait and see. Meanwhile, I'd
like to suggest that Florida could cut its health- care costs somewhat if it
could keep the tourists out of the hospitals.

Robert Akerman's column normally appears in The Journal on Wednesday and Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH931070084

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                             226 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           November 9, 2000 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

ACCC targets health funds

BYLINE: Chelsey Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 359 words


The health insurance sector is again under attack amid claims by Australia's
competition watchdog that funds are providing inadequate information to
consumers.

The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission yesterday tabled a report
into anti-competitive practice in the sector, concluding many consumers were
still unable to compare the relative benefit of products.

ACCC chairman, Professor Allan Fels, said the lack of information from some
health funds was highlighted in the lead-up to the Federal Government's Lifetime
Health Cover initiative.

"The ACCC and the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman received many complaints
about misleading or inadequate information about products being sold at this
time," Professor Fels said.

The ACCC has already begun Federal Court proceedings against the nation's
largest insurer, Medibank Private, alleging it engaged in misleading and
deceptive advertising in two of its campaigns leading up to the introduction of
the new rules which allow funds to charge more to people who delay taking out
private cover after the age of 30.

Earlier in the year another insurer, HBA which is part of AXA Australia was
forced by the courts to revise a television commercial, provide additional
information to members and offer refunds to some consumers.

According to the report, a number of other matters arising from LHC are still
under investigation. The Commission has warned funds they would expect any
promises made to members via call centres or advertisements to be honoured.

The Australian Medical Association was also in the watchdog's firing line, with
the ACCC warning that any threat to boycott funds which refuse to adopt the
body's preferred model for no-gap products would be "thoroughly investigated".

The report also labelled as "disturbing" the AMA's opposition to funds wanting
to cap fees, have doctors bill directly to the insurer and making the principal
doctor responsible for informed financial consent.

"The AMA position on these issues seems to be more focused on the interests of
practitioners than on effectively addressing community and patients' concerns
regarding the medical gap," the report said.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: The ACCC says health funds don't give consumers enough detail.
Photo: JESSICA SHAPIRO.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2000 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             227 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                   D1 Edition

Candidates disagree on reform rules

BYLINE: By James Fuller jfuller@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 631 words


When it comes to the costs of health care, none of the four candidates for the
14th Congressional District agree on the best route to more affordable medicine.

Incumbent Democrat Bill Foster, Republican Randy Hultgren, Green Party Candidate
Dan Kairis and Libertarian write-in Doug Marks all believe the recently passed
health care reform law is flawed. But only two candidates believe the law is so
bad it must be repealed.

Hultgren told attendees of a luncheon in St. Charles last week that changes
created in the new law do nothing to address the cost of health care. He said he
would've voted against both the major Democratic versions of the law and will
work to undo "Obamacare."

"I think Republicans blew it on this," Hultgren said of the new law. "But I
think Democrats blew it even more. We need to get rid of what we've got. Let's
repeal it."

Hultgren said he's particularly disappointed in what's become known as the "1099
provision" of the new health care law. The provision requires companies to
submit a report to the IRS for every business-to-business transaction made that
exceeds $600. Critics view the provision as a nightmare of paperwork and
accounting for as many as 30 million small businesses.

"This is going to kill small businesses," Hultgren said.

Although he voted in favor of the new health care reform law, Foster was one of
239 Democrats who recently voted to repeal the provision. That vote failed to
receive a two-thirds majority, meaning the provision remains on the books for
now. Foster has pledged to work to repeal the provision permanently. He's also
spent quite a bit of time explaining why he supported the overall health care
reform changes.

Among those reasons, Foster has said requiring more people to have insurance
will spare people who've always had insurance from footing the bill for the
uninsured through cost increases. Foster has also said eliminating pre-existing
conditions as a means of disqualifying someone from insurance coverage was
important to keep people from dying simply because they don't have or can't
afford health insurance.

Marks said the government forcing people to buy health insurance is one of the
major problems he has with the new law.

"They are taking away from the free market by mandating everyone gets covered,"
Marks said. "And as government puts more and more controls on these insurance
companies, they are going to drop out of the business. Then we'll have a full,
government-controlled insurance plan. That's socialism."

Marks favors private health savings accounts and an end to employers forcing
their workers to have insurance coverage through them. He favors a consumer
environment more like getting auto insurance but using a 401(k)-type account
restricted to use for medical needs. Marks also believes health insurance
companies should be required to do business in all 50 states to increase
competition. None of that, Marks said, is delivered in the health care reform
Congress recently delivered.

"I would run, sprint and dance all the way down to repeal that sucker," Marks
said.

Kairis isn't ready to go as far as repealing the new law. He said that would
take people who couldn't get health insurance before back to the old problem of
falling into bankruptcy when a catastrophic medical emergency occurs. Kairis
favors the elimination of health insurance companies in favor of a health tax.
He said he'd rather have the government try to run the health insurance system
with lower overhead than private companies.

"We really have a publicly-financed health care system already," Kairis said.
"The public is just paying it through their health insurance premiums. The
problem with the new law is it might not change anything, and more people are
going to be paying millions to the health insurance industry."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bill Foster Bill Foster (D) Bill Foster Bill Foster Bill Foster Bill
Foster Bill Foster Bill Foster Bill Foster Bill Foster Bill Foster Bill
FosterDan Kairis Dan Kairis Dan Kairis Dan Kairis Dan Kairis Dan Kairis Dan
Kairis Dan Kairis Dan Kairis Dan Kairis Dan Kairis Dan KairisRandy Hultgren
Randy Hultgren Randy Hultgren Randy Hultgren Randy Hultgren Randy Hultgren Randy
Hultgren Randy Hultgren Randy Hultgren Randy HultgrenDoug Marks Doug Marks Doug
Marks Doug Marks Doug Marks Doug Marks Doug Marks Doug Marks Doug Marks Doug
Marks Doug Marks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             228 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                   C3 Edition

Candidates disagree on new health care rules

BYLINE: By James Fuller jfuller@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 631 words


When it comes to the costs of health care, none of the four candidates for the
14th Congressional District agree on the best route to more affordable medicine.

Incumbent Democrat Bill Foster, Republican Randy Hultgren, Green Party Candidate
Dan Kairis and Libertarian write-in Doug Marks all believe the recently passed
health care reform law is flawed. But only two candidates believe the law is so
bad it must be repealed.

Hultgren told attendees of a luncheon in St. Charles last week that changes
created in the new law do nothing to address the cost of health care. He said he
would've voted against both the major Democratic versions of the law and will
work to undo "Obamacare."

"I think Republicans blew it on this," Hultgren said of the new law. "But I
think Democrats blew it even more. We need to get rid of what we've got. Let's
repeal it."

Hultgren said he's particularly disappointed in what's become known as the "1099
provision" of the new health care law. The provision requires companies to
submit a report to the IRS for every business-to-business transaction made that
exceeds $600. Critics view the provision as a nightmare of paperwork and
accounting for as many as 30 million small businesses.

"This is going to kill small businesses," Hultgren said.

Although he voted in favor of the new health care reform law, Foster was one of
239 Democrats who recently voted to repeal the provision. That vote failed to
receive a two-thirds majority, meaning the provision remains on the books for
now. Foster has pledged to work to repeal the provision permanently. He's also
spent quite a bit of time explaining why he supported the overall health care
reform changes.

Among those reasons, Foster has said requiring more people to have insurance
will spare people who've always had insurance from footing the bill for the
uninsured through cost increases. Foster has also said eliminating pre-existing
conditions as a means of disqualifying someone from insurance coverage was
important to keep people from dying simply because they don't have or can't
afford health insurance.

Marks said the government forcing people to buy health insurance is one of the
major problems he has with the new law.

"They are taking away from the free market by mandating everyone gets covered,"
Marks said. "And as government puts more and more controls on these insurance
companies, they are going to drop out of the business. Then we'll have a full,
government-controlled insurance plan. That's socialism."

Marks favors private health savings accounts and an end to employers forcing
their workers to have insurance coverage through them. He favors a consumer
environment more like getting auto insurance but using a 401(k)-type account
restricted to use for medical needs. Marks also believes health insurance
companies should be required to do business in all 50 states to increase
competition. None of that, Marks said, is delivered in the health care reform
Congress recently delivered.

"I would run, sprint and dance all the way down to repeal that sucker," Marks
said.

Kairis isn't ready to go as far as repealing the new law. He said that would
take people who couldn't get health insurance before back to the old problem of
falling into bankruptcy when a catastrophic medical emergency occurs. Kairis
favors the elimination of health insurance companies in favor of a health tax.
He said he'd rather have the government try to run the health insurance system
with lower overhead than private companies.

"We really have a publicly-financed health care system already," Kairis said.
"The public is just paying it through their health insurance premiums. The
problem with the new law is it might not change anything, and more people are
going to be paying millions to the health insurance industry."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             229 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



      Spirit of Jefferson Farmer's Advocate (Charles Town, West Virginia)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                 April 24, 2013

Health reform law is making a difference for West Virginia

BYLINE: Spirit of Jefferson Farmers Advocate staff

LENGTH: 651  words


A caring mother described the scary nights she sat with cool washcloths over her
fevered and very sick child worrying that, because they simply couldn't afford
to go to the doctor, her son may not get well. No one should have to shoulder
the grinding stress of knowing that an easily treatable infection or pneumonia
could develop into a life- threatening illness simply because they can't get an
antibiotic or other medical treatment.

Unfortunately, similar situations "have been a reality for so many West
Virginians. That's why I have always believed medical care should be a right for
everyone, not a privilege enjoyed by only the fortunate.

We recently marked the third anniversary of the landmark health reform law, and
I'm glad to say that many fewer West Virginians face these problems now than
they did a few years ago.

When the health reform law is fully implemented in 2014, it will be the first
time that such a sweeping health reform law goes into effect and there will
undoubtedly be some challenges. But no state has more to gain from the health
reform law than West Virginia. And we've already been seeing many of those gains
over the past three years.

To date, 18,000 West Virginia young adults have gained health insurance because
they are now allowed to stay on their parents' plans until they are 26 years
old. And even more have been helped because health insurance companies are no
longer allowed to turn away children just because they have a pre-existing
condition, like asthma or diabetes.. More than 37,750 West Virginia seniors with
high prescription drug costs received an average savings of $891 last year
because the law is closing the gap in prescription drug coverage under Medicare,
and those savings will only continue.

Even more, 17,000 West Virginia small businesses that want to offer health care
coverage to their employees can now get a tax credit to help them do just that.

Health insurance companies are now required to cover preventive services, like
flu shots, colonoscopies, or mammograms, which screen for cancer.

The new law also requires insurance companies to spend almost all of the money
consumers pay on premiums for actual medical care, instead of executive salaries
and fancy office buildings. And if they don't, they have to give money back to
consumers. This protection has already led to $2.7 million in rebates for West
Virginians.

Before the health reform law, uninsured West Virginians were unable to get
preventive care, and would then use the emergency room. If they couldn't afford
to pay, those costs would be shifted on to everyone else in the form of higher
premiums an extra $1,000 per year in health premiums for the average family. But
the health reform law is changing the old ways of doing things. Health spending
is now at historic lows for three consecutive years and Medicare and Medicaid
spending are growing even slower. At the same time, families are getting more
access to better care that is more affordable.

These reforms are very real. And starting on Oct. 1, West Virginians with and
without health insurance will have a new central location called a health
insurance exchange or "marketplace" where they can compare different health
insurance plans and pick the one that best fits their needs.

Many West Virginians will qualify for. tax credits to purchase more affordable
coverage or possibly be able to join Medicaid. And, in 2014, health insurance
companies will no longer be allowed to deny adults coverage because of a
pre-existing condition.

The law isn't perfect. No major reform law ever is. But it's already bringing
about positive change, fixing a system we know was broken. From the first moment
I saw the realities of life without health care, I've been fighting to see this
progress made and I believe so strongly in the difference it will make for West
Virginia.

Jay Rockefeller is the senior U.S. senator from West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Guest Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SJF

                      Copyright 2013 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
              Copyright 2013 Spirit of Jefferson Farmer's Advocate


                             230 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             August 8, 1994, Monday

Q & A Some common questions about the law

BYLINE: By Hank Ezell STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Section E; Page 1

LENGTH: 361 words


Here are answers to some commonly asked questions about the family leave law:

Q: When am I entitled to a leave?

A: Employees covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act are entitled to leave
to care for a new baby or for a seriously ill family member. An eligible
employee also can get leave when he or she is unable to work because of a
serious health condition.

Q: What does it take to be eligible?

A: In general, you must work for a public agency or for a private- sector
employer with 50 or more employees. You must have worked for that organization
for at least 12 months - and have worked for roughly 25 hours a week, or more.

Q: Are there any exceptions?

A: Yes. Jobs aren't fully protected for the highest-paid 10 percent of employees
within a 75-mile radius. An employer isn't obligated to give these "key"
employees their old job back if it can prove that reinstating them would cause
"substantial and grievous" economic harm.

Q: How much leave can I take?

A: Up to 12 weeks each year.

Q: Will I be paid?

A: No. Leave is unpaid.

Q: Can I keep my health insurance?

A: Yes. The law requires employers to maintain group health insurance coverage.

Q: Can a father take time off to care for a new baby?

A: Yes. The law entitles fathers, as well as mothers, time to take care of
newborns.

Q: Will I get my old job back?

A: As a general rule, the law guarantees your old job or an "equivalent"
position when you come back to work. An equivalent position must provide the
same pay, benefits and working conditions, and it must entail "substantially
equivalent" responsibility and authority.

Q: How much notice do I need to give?

A: Thirty days, if the reason for leave is predictable. Otherwise, employees
must give notice "as soon as practicable." That should be "within no more than
one or two working days of learning of the need for leave except in
extraordinary circumstances," according to Labor Department regulations.

Q: Do I have to bring a note from my doctor?

A: Employers can require medical certification of a serious health condition.
Workers also may be required to get second opinions, but the boss has to pay for
those.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH942230109

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                             231 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Daily Monitor

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

Pass national health insurance scheme into law, don tells govt

BYLINE: RAJAB MUKOMBOZI -1

LENGTH: 515  words


A Makerere University don has asked the government to expedite the National
Health Insurance Scheme in order to save lives, especially of the elderly poor

Ibanda. A Makerere University don has asked the government to expedite the
National Health Insurance Scheme in order to save lives, especially of the
elderly poor, who can't afford expensive treatment and care for the diseases
afflicting them.

Prof John Jean Barya, a lecturer of Law, said ailments such as cancer, diabetes,
blood pressure and heart diseases are becoming common among the elderly but the
cost of treatment and care is very expensive and many are therefore, dying.

Prof Barya's comments come on the heels of the delayed passing of the National
Health Insurance Scheme into law. The scheme, which was proposed by the
government in 2007, seeks to ensure affordable, equitable and quality healthcare
services.

However, the scheme has since failed to take off after sections of employees
protested the move.

But speaking during a thanksgiving ceremony to celebrate the lives of his
parents, who are among the eldest couples in Ibanda District, Prof Barya said
delaying to roll out the scheme is proving dangerous.

"We are celebrating the lives and many years our parents have lived on this
earth but it has not been easy. We have sacrificed a lot in terms of treatment
and care. That's the reason you see them living. But how many families can
afford this given the high poverty levels among households?" asked Prof Barya at
the weekend.

His father, Mr Marko Baryaharwego, is 92 years, while his mother, Ms Bridget
Baryaharwego, is 89.The state minister for Works, Eng John Byabagambi, who
attended the function, said the health insurance Scheme is very urgent but has
taken long to be passed into law.

"The health insurance scheme is very much needed in this country. The Bill is
now before Cabinet and I also agree it has overstayed there,"Eng Byabagambi, who
is also the Ibanda South MP, said.

"But this is because it needs a lot of research, involvement and consultations.
I am convinced anytime soon, it will be passed into law because most of these
(consultations) have been done," he added.

ABOUT THE INSURANCE SCHEMEPurpose. The National Health Insurance Scheme was
proposed in 2007 to ensure affordable, equitable and quality healthcare services
progressively to all residents in an efficient manner through health insurance.

The clause. Under National Health Insurance Bill, 2007, employees especially
those in the formal sector (both public and private) are to pay four per cent of
their monthly earnings to the insurance scheme. Additionally, their employers
would also contribute another four per cent while those in the informal sector
or those with no job will be mobilised under saving schemes where the same
percentage would be deducted for the insurance.

Research findings. A study by the World Health Organisation in 2008 revealed
that Ugandans put 22 per cent of their earnings on health care and six per cent
of the poor, who have the highest number of health bills, have to sell their
assets to meet medical bills.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1148


                       Copyright 2014 Nation Media Group
                 Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.Syndigate.info
                              All Rights Reserved


                             232 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

UAE companies to provide mandatory health insurance for all under draft law

LENGTH: 518  words


A draft federal law will ensure health insurance for all employees in the
country, with employers risking minimum fines of Dh10,000 for each uncovered
worker.
And the draft states that any sponsor who tries to charge an employee for
providing them with health insurance can be fined up to Dh30,000, reports Al
Ittihad, the Arabic-language sister paper to The National.


A federal authority will be established to oversee health cover, and to transfer
the employee's benefits when they move from one provider to another.
As it stands, only Abu Dhabi has mandatory insurance, with 98 per cent of its
workers covered.
Dr Haider Al Yousuf, director of health funding at Dubai Health Authority,
welcomed the draft, saying it would "make sure weaker members of society are
protected".
"The principles of a mandatory health insurance law means it has to have teeth,"
Dr Al Yousuf  said. "Therefore, the fine should be higher than the cost of
insuring a worker."
The draft says sponsors must submit proof of cover for each worker
electronically to relevant authorities. Any person who gives incorrect details
for a health insurance service or benefit will be fined Dh10,000 to Dh30,000.
Penalties of between Dh100,000 and Dh500,000 will be imposed on any insurance
company or healthcare provider practising without a licence from the relevant
health authority.
Failure to keep workers' details confidential will mean a fine of Dh50,000 to
Dh200,000.
The law has been welcomed by members of the medical sector.
"It's definitely a good idea," said one Abu Dhabi healthcare worker.
"So many people are coming without health insurance to our hospital but we are
helpless to help them, especially labourers. It's very sad.
"Hopefully this will mean more people have health insurance. It's important that
people have health insurance.
"People in the UAE come here to earn money and they are working for a company,
so the company should take care of them."
Abu Dhabi pharmacist Dr Hussein Haddad agreed.
"Here in the UAE the medical treatment is very expensive, and procedures and
medicine compared with other countries is expensive," Dr Haddad said.
"Many employees are on low salaries so they cannot afford any treatment for
themselves."
Dr Nisar Ahmed, insurance manager at Abu Dhabi's Burjeel Hospital, said health
insurance was a necessity that any employer should provide.
"It's just asking that they are physically fit and taken care of," Dr Ahmed
said, adding that health care in the UAE was "quite expensive now".

"An average person, he will not be able to afford one inpatient admission of
even two days.
"Employers can have the security that if their employees are taken care of they
will have more productivity and more efficiency in their work."
Other parts of the draft law include rules to ensure anyone who provides proof
of coverage will receive treatment, regardless of whether they attend a centre
listed with their insurer.
Coverage must be continued in the event of a dispute between insurer and
healthcare provider, and insurance companies will be banned from running
healthcare centres and vice versa.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                   F3 Edition

Health care in14th District

BYLINE: By James Fuller jfuller@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 631 words


When it comes to the costs of health care, none of the four candidates for the
14th Congressional District agree on the best route to more affordable medicine.

Incumbent Democrat Bill Foster, Republican Randy Hultgren, Green Party Candidate
Dan Kairis and Libertarian write-in Doug Marks all believe the recently passed
health care reform law is flawed. But only two candidates believe the law is so
bad it must be repealed.

Hultgren told attendees of a luncheon in St. Charles last week that changes
created in the new law do nothing to address the cost of health care. He said he
would've voted against both the major Democratic versions of the law and will
work to undo "Obamacare."

"I think Republicans blew it on this," Hultgren said of the new law. "But I
think Democrats blew it even more. We need to get rid of what we've got. Let's
repeal it."

Hultgren said he's particularly disappointed in what's become known as the "1099
provision" of the new health care law. The provision requires companies to
submit a report to the IRS for every business-to-business transaction made that
exceeds $600. Critics view the provision as

a nightmare of paperwork and accounting for as many as 30 million small
businesses.

"This is going to kill small businesses," Hultgren said.

Although he voted in favor of the new health care reform law, Foster was one of
239 Democrats who recently voted to repeal the provision. That vote failed to
receive a two-thirds majority, meaning the provision remains on the books for
now. Foster has pledged to work to repeal the provision permanently. He's also
spent quite a bit of time explaining why he supported the overall health care
reform changes.

Among those reasons, Foster has said requiring more people to have insurance
will spare people who've always had insurance from footing the bill for the
uninsured through cost increases. Foster has also said eliminating pre-existing
conditions as a means of disqualifying someone from insurance coverage was
important to keep people from dying simply because they don't have or can't
afford health insurance.

Marks said the government forcing people to buy health insurance is one of the
major problems he has with the new law.

"They are taking away from the free market by mandating everyone gets covered,"
Marks said.

"And as government puts more and more controls on these insurance companies,
they are going to drop out of the business. Then we'll have a full,
government-controlled insurance plan. That's socialism."

Marks favors private health savings accounts and an end to employers forcing
their workers to have insurance coverage through them. He favors a consumer
environment more like getting auto insurance but using a 401(k)-type account
restricted to use for medical needs. Marks also believes health insurance
companies should be required to do business in all 50 states to increase
competition. None of that, Marks said, is delivered in the health care reform
Congress recently delivered.

"I would run, sprint and dance all the way down to repeal that sucker," Marks
said.

Kairis isn't ready to go as far as repealing the new law. He said that would
take people who couldn't get health insurance before back to the old problem of
falling into bankruptcy when a catastrophic medical emergency occurs. Kairis
favors the elimination of health insurance companies in favor of a health tax.
He said he'd rather have the government try to run the health insurance system
with lower overhead than private companies.

"We really have a publicly-financed health care system already," Kairis said.

"The public is just paying it through their health insurance premiums. The
problem with the new law is it might not change anything, and more people are
going to be paying millions to the health insurance industry."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             234 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             June 7, 2000 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Doctors to declare gap costs

BYLINE: DARREN GRAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 509 words


CANBERRA

Doctors must warn patients with private health insurance in writing about
medical "gap costs" under a new health law passed by the Senate yesterday.

Wherever possible, the declaration of gaps must come before hospital treatment
begins.

The Democrats and the Opposition combined to include the change in new
legislation dealing with private health insurance gap cover schemes.

Last night a spokeswoman for Health Minister Michael Wooldridge said the
minister welcomed the passage of the legislation.

Although the change applies only to patients covered by a new "no-gap" or "known
gap" private health insurance policy, the Opposition and the Democrats hope to
soon broaden the disclosure of gap costs.

The gap - the difference between what the doctor charges and what Medicare and
the health insurer pays - is arguably the biggest disincentive to taking out
private health insurance. The Age reported recently that Australians with
hospital insurance paid about $215 million a year in out-of-pocket charges.

The law - which is expected to pass the lower house today - effectively
enshrines the principle of informed financial consent regarding doctors'
charges. Opposition Health spokeswoman Jenny Macklin said that, for the first
time, patients would be told what they could expect to pay before treatment.

The Democrats and the Opposition hope to attach an amendment to a health law
expected to be debated in Parliament this month which would require all doctors
- regardless of a patient's insurance status - to inform patients of medical
gaps before treatment.

The new health insurance legislation passed by the Senate yesterday will enable,
for the first time, funds and doctors to develop "no-gap" insurance products
without striking a contract. Doctors have been regular critics of contracts.

The Australian Medical Association last night described the new law as "landmark
health insurance legislation".

Federal AMA president Kerryn Phelps urged the government to scrap all contracts
that were the basis for no-gap products. "Patients should now be asking for
no-contract gap products. No contract means no interference," she said.

Democrat amendments to the law will also require doctors to declare whether they
have a financial interest in medical services, such as radiology or pathology
services, which they refer a patient to. This amendment will only apply to
treatments performed under a new "no-gap" or "known-gap" scheme.

Other amendments require an independent review of gap cover schemes to be tabled
in Parliament before the end of 2002 and health insurers to provide an annual
report to the federal Health Minister regarding their gap cover scheme.

The legislation will also allow the Health Minister to revoke a gap cover scheme
and requires the details of no-gap schemes to be published on the Internet.

Health funds have a strong incentive to develop "no-gap" schemes. If they do not
have them in place by the end of this month, their policy-holders will no longer
be able to claim the government's 30 per cent rebate on premiums up-front.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2000 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             235 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday

Health Alliance to aide in meeting health insurance mandates

BYLINE: Sharon Dunn, Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 860 words


Sept. 29--A PATH TO GUARANTEED -- and affordable -- health insurance is about to
be open for Weld County's uninsured, and residents won't be on their own in
navigating the complications.

The state's health insurance exchange, Connect for Health Colorado, is set to
open Tuesday for residents to enroll as a part of the federal Affordable Care
Act's mandate for all residents to obtain health insurance by Jan. 1.

And the Northern Colorado Health Alliance, the Weld County hub for the state
exchange, will be there with aides on the ground, online and on the phone to
help residents get from A to B, officials say.

"We want consumers to really understand this is not a political agenda for us,"
said Stephanie Keener, coordinator for the NCHA in Weld County. "We're here to
help people meet the requirements of the law and understand the requirements. We
cannot sway someone to one plan or another. We are just here to assist."

Regardless of politics that continue in Washington, the Affordable Care Act is
the law and has been for three years.

"While Congress fights, the laws are the laws, and we do have the requirements,
and we've got organizations in place to get people enrolled," said Mark Wallace,
CEO and medical director for NCHA. "I think we have to remind people that it's
not unusual for Congress to fight, and we tweak a lot of laws we already have in
place. If they can overcome their standoffs, eventually, they'll iron out some
things. But for now, it's full steam ahead. This is the law."

Residents with health insurance may have already noticed preventative services
are now fully covered under their own plans. And beginning this month, insurers
will no longer be able to turn people away for pre-existing conditions and
everyone will be paying the same for insurance regardless of their sex -- it's
all based on income levels.

The insurance mandates begin in January, and by 2015, the pay-for-performance
model for doctors will begin.

With an estimated 829,000 uninsured residents -- more than 37,000 of which are
in Weld County -- Colorado is one of the few states that opted to set up its own
health insurance exchanges when the Affordable Care Act became law, opting to
run the program as a state rather than under the stewardship of the federal
government.

The state set up Connect for Health, a database which sorts 150 different health
plans all approved to offer basic insurance coverage under the new law,
including mental health coverage and expanded preventative care services for all
ages.

The health exchange is open to all uninsured residents, as well as small
business owners of 50 employees or less that cannot afford to offer insurance.
It operates like a Travelocity site, comparing differing plans based on people's
needs and affordability. And, people can research, sign up and buy it all
online.

Or, they can try it out and come back to it -- shop anonymously. If you're
covered through an employer, you can compare rates to see where you can get the
best deals -- all insurance plans on the exchange are private. They are not
government-run.

The new law also imposes penalties every year for failure to sign up, but it
also provides tax credits to residents to help make the premiums affordable.

There are waivers for those whose resulting premiums would be still be too
expensive, or if premiums are above a certain percentage of their gross income.
But officials expect that to be a rare insurance. Insurance premiums, though not
out yet, are expected to be much less than what some anticipate.

"With the premiums we're anticipating, it's not going to be easy to make that
waiver," Wallace said. In New York, for example, premiums through health
exchanges were 50 percent less than what residents typically would pay,
according to the New York Times.

According to the Times, "Beginning in October, individuals in New York City who
now pay $1,000 a month or more for coverage will be able to shop for health
insurance for as little as $308 monthly. With federal subsidies, the cost will
be even lower."

The affordability comes in the competition among insurers, the increased number
of payers into the system, as well as federal tax credits that will be doled out
to those who qualify. No longer will America's insured, for example, pay for the
uninsured's medical bills at the emergency room through higher premiums.

"You'll be very surprised as to how affordable it is," Keener said. "The whole
point of the law is to have affordable health care. It isn't to price people out
of the marketplace."

Navigating the strange world of insurance plans, premiums, co-pays and coverage
ares won't be easy. That's where Wallace and the Northern Colorado Health
Alliance come in.

The NCHA has nine aides who will be on hand at area libraries and in the office
beginning this week. The staffers can help people sign up, answer questions, and
assist with the entire process.

"And, we're free," Keener said. "We'll spend an hour to 90 minutes with someone"
to help them navigate these new territories.

___ (c)2013 Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune (Greeley,
Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130929-GY-Health-Alliance-to-aide-in-meeting-health-insurance
-mandates-20130929

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2013 Greeley Tribune


                             236 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            October 17, 2010 Sunday

Florida v. US // Key ruling in challenge to ObamaCare

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 166 words


COLUMN: IN OUR OPINION

A federal judge in Pensacola, Florida, on Thursday took a crucial step toward
answering a question that could undermine major portions of the Obama
administration's comprehensive health care reform law. Judge Roger Vinson ruled
that key portions of a Florida lawsuit challenging the law's penalties for those
who refuse to purchase health insurance should proceed.

In his decision, Judge Vinson pointed to apparent inconsistencies in the
language employed by the government, noting that the law nowhere refers to the
penalties as taxes, yet government lawyers portrayed the penalties as taxes
during hearings in September - apparently to bring them under Congress'
authority to regulate interstate commerce.

We firmly believe it is unconstitutional to fine an individual for refusing to
engage in an act of commerce, even one as advisable as buying health insurance.
Judge Vinson's ruling helps ensure the nation's highest court will settle that
question in the forseeable future.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A federal judge in Pensacola, Florida, on Thursday took a crucial step
toward answering a question that could undermine major portions of the Obama
administration's comprehensive health care reform law. Judge Roger Vinson ruled
that key portions of a Florida lawsuit challenging the law's penalties for those
who refuse to purchase health insurance should proceed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             237 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            April 25, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REPUBLICAN SENATORS PICK APART RENDELL'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN

BYLINE: TRACIE MAURIELLO, POST-GAZETTE HARRISBURG BUREAU

SECTION: STATE; Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 323 words

DATELINE: HARRISBURG


Gov. Ed Rendell's proposal to provide health insurance for 800,000 uninsured
Pennsylvanians isn't looking so healthy itself now that it's in the hands of
state lawmakers.

Republican senators, who control the chamber by a 29-21 margin, picked it apart
yesterday during a joint hearing of the Insurance Committee and the Banking and
Industry Committee.

There is little support for a provision requiring businesses in the state to
provide health insurance for their workers or be subjected to a wage tax of 3
percent to 3.5 percent of payroll.

"There are no votes for it. It's not going to happen," said Sen. Jake Corman,
R-Centre. "We just need to dispose of it and move on. Let's get to the things we
can agree on."

He and Sen. Pat Browne, R-Lehigh, called yesterday's public hearing a waste of
time.

Testimony, which came from attorneys, business leaders and Rendell
administration officials, centered on whether the governor's health insurance
proposal constitutes a mandate for employers to provide insurance.

Critics claim that such mandates conflict with the 1974 federal Employee
Retirement Income Security Act, which says employers cannot be required to offer
health insurance, and the state constitution, which requires uniform taxation.

The governor's office says there are no conflicts.

The plan calls for a uniform wage tax for all employers and provides a credit of
the full tax amount for businesses that offer health insurance, said Rosemarie
Greco, Mr. Rendell's director of health care reform.

"The General Assembly can enact uniform taxes and give uniform tax credits.
That's what this proposal does," she said.

Opponents say that's a semantic difference that may not survive a court
challenge.

A federal appeals court overturned a similar law in Maryland in January. There,
the state mandated that companies pay health insurance premiums equal to 8
percent of payroll or pay the difference to the state to subsidize Medicaid
programs.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tracie Mauriello can be reached at tmauriello@post-gazette.com or
1-717-787-2141.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             238 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 25, 2014 Friday

Washington: It Works! New Data on Health Insurance and the New Health Care Law

LENGTH: 342  words

DATELINE: Washington


The National Women's Law Center has issued the following news release:

If you had any doubt that the new health care law is helping women and their
families get health insurance - and given the Chicken Little-level hysteria that
seems to still affect critics of the new law, you can be forgiven for harboring
a few doubts - a new survey released yesterday should calm those fears.
According to Gallup, the uninsured rate for adults in states that have
implemented both major coverage components of the Affordable Care Act has
fallen, on average, 2.5 percentage points in the first three months of full
implementation. These 21 states and the District of Columbia, which expanded
coverage through Medicaid and established their own health insurance
marketplaces (including those running "partnership" marketplaces), have widened
the gap in average rates of uninsurance between themselves and states that have
not taken both of these steps.

Not only is the sky not falling, but the law is working as it should. Which is
great - we should all celebrate these early results. But it also means that we
can't take a much-deserved break now that health care enrollment has largely
closed for 2014. As states and women's health advocates look towards 2015, 2016
and beyond, some key next steps should include pushing remaining states to
expand coverage through Medicaid and urging additional states to establish their
own health insurance marketplaces. The Gallup data shows us that the states that
have leaned in to the new health care law have seen the greatest return on their
efforts - namely, a larger and faster-growing proportion of their adult
population with health insurance. Chicken Little went to go see the king after
an acorn dropped on her head (and in most versions of the story, that didn't
work out so well for her). With this data, and more that is sure to follow, we
can educate the public and our policymakers about how to make sure we have a
happy ending, by making the most of the new law.

For more information please visit: http://www.nwlc.org

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             239 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           November 26, 2013 Tuesday

Green light for mandatory health insurance for all Dubai workers

LENGTH: 652  words


Employers will provide compulsory health insurance for every worker in Dubai
under a major scheme approved on Tuesday. The long-awaited scheme, which also
covers employees' spouses and children for as long as they live in the emirate,
will come into effect next year.


It extends cover to domestic staff and visitors to Dubai.
"Health insurance is a form of security and it is very important for every
individual to know that if he needs access to health care it is easily
available," said Essa Al Maidoor, director general of the Dubai Health
Authority.
Valid health insurance will be a prerequisite to obtaining a residency visa.
The plan has been years in the making, originally due to be introduced four
years ago, and is loosely based on the Abu Dhabi model.
Mr Al Maidoor said the Health Insurance Law was passed this week by Sheikh
Mohammed bin Rashid, Vice President and Ruler of Dubai.
"We would like to thank His Highness Sheikh Mohammed and we are committed to
fulfil his vision and ensure every individual knows that if he needs access to
health care, it is easily accessible," he said.
"The law is fundamental to ensure smooth delivery of basic health insurance to
everyone living in the emirate, which roughly means more than 3 million people,
including nationals and residents with Dubai visas."
Mr Al Maidoor said the DHA had studied 12 of the best health insurance systems
in the world.
It will take about three years for the population to be fully covered, with
about a third now insured. The Government will be responsible for insuring UAE
nationals.
Coverage will be rolled out in phases from next year until mid-2016, with all
workers requiring at least the essential basic package.
Mr Al Maidoor said the average cost of providing the basic insurance would be
about 1.5 per cent of an employee's salary and employers would have the option
to top up the basic package.
The plan to insure visitors to Dubai will be introduced in the later stages.
The law will ensure growing investment in the healthcare sector in Dubai and the
UAE, and was the product of "very, very hard work" by those involved, Mr Al
Maidoor said.
He said the DHA had wanted to ensure everything was ready before launching the
scheme.
"Anything like this has to be done right and properly, without any negative
impacts," Mr Al Maidoor said. "Our role is to guarantee a proper, comprehensive
service."
Abu Dhabi, the only other emirate with mandatory insurance, has 98 per cent of
its workers covered. Daman is the main insurer in the emirate.

All Dubai workers will be given insurance cards to replace their DHA cards, said
Dr Haider Al Yousuf, director of health funding at the authority.
"For residents, the health insurance law sets forth the employer's
responsibility to secure insurance to cover the employees he sponsors," Dr Al
Yousuf said.
Only registered insurance companies with health insurance permits from the DHA
would be able to provide insurance.
"This is to provide everyone with the basic right to health care in a well
regulated model," Dr Al Yousuf said.
"This stems from the Government's fundamental goal to provide happiness and
security to the people of the country."
He said the law stipulated the roles and responsibilities of all stakeholders.
Failure by employers to provide insurance carries fines of between Dh500 and
Dh150,000. Repeated breaches carry a maximum fine of Dh500,000.
Under the DHA's original plan, employers would pay the Government between Dh500
and Dh800 a year for each employee, who would register with an outpatient clinic
for basic healthcare services.
The plan was delayed partly because of the economic downturn. A new proposal, in
2011, cut out the Government, requiring companies to buy private health
insurance for their staff.
As in Abu Dhabi, Dubai is operating an online clearing house for every claim.<p
class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             240 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                  July 5, 2005

Bupa set to proceed with challenge to insurance law

SECTION: Ireland; In the Courts; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 403 words


Bupa is to continue its High Court constitutional challenge to the legislation
which allowed the Health Insurance Agency (HIA) to recommend that Bupa make
risk-equalisation payments to its rival health insurance company, the VHI.

Last week, the Minister for Health decided not to pursue the risk-equalisation
measure recommended by the HIA which, had it gone through, could have meant Bupa
paying the VHI about EUR 35 million a year.

Yesterday, Mr Justice John Quirke was told that, in light of the Minister's
decision, Bupa was no longer pursuing legal action against the HIA. However,
Bupa was continuing its challenge to Section 12 of the Health Insurance Act 1994
and intended to advance its claim that the legislation breached an EU directive.

The judge said he hoped to have the constitutional challenge heard next term.

Bupa plans to call evidence in relation to risk-equalisation schemes and will
oppose the VHI being represented at the hearing which could last two weeks.

Mr Michael Collins SC, for Bupa, said the Minister's decision meant that his
client was not under an immediate risk of having to pay the VHI.

However, the matter of hearing his client's constitutional challenge was urgent
because, in six months' time, the Minister had to review the matter again. The
HIA would come back into the picture because there was a statutory obligation to
carry out a review every six months. Bupa hoped to call oral evidence in
relation to risk-equalisation schemes.

Mr Gerard Hogan SC, for the State, said the matter was overwhelmingly urgent.
The issue (of payment) was definitely under review and, given the major
constitutional challenge Bupa had commenced, it was imperative the matter be
heard very quickly.

Mr Paul Gallagher SC, for VHI, said it was entitled to be represented at the
hearing. It was not just the payment which was crucial. If the risk-equalisation
scheme was declared invalid, it would have serious consequences for the VHI and
its reserves - it could no longer look to the scheme to supplement the
deficiencies that it would suffer through the absence of a risk-equalisation
scheme.

Mr Collins said his client would oppose the VHI's legal standing to be
represented at the Bupa hearing. The only parties entitled to be represented
were his clients and the State.

The judge agreed to a two-week adjournment when the progress of the action will
be reviewed.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2005 The Irish Times


                             241 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                             August 22, 2016 Monday

Rep. Lombardo, others wrong to criticize insurance cap extension

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 273 words


In reading the recent article, "Retirees' health insurance latest battleground,"
I found it ironic that state Rep. Marc Lombardo criticized the Legislature for
voting to extend the moratorium on increasing insurance rates for municipal
retirees, saying that it's wrong for legislators to insert themselves between
employees and municipalities.

Because that's exactly what the Legislature did when it passed the Municipal
Health Reform Law in 2011.

Prior to that "reform" law, all aspects of health insurance were negotiated
between municipalities and their workers. Health insurance benefits were
negotiated as part of contractual wage and benefit packages through collective
bargaining between the parties.

But then, the Legislature did exactly what Rep. Lombardo denounces and inserted
themselves between employees and municipalities by passing the Reform Law and
stripping municipal employees of their bargaining rights in regard to health
insurance.

The reform law curtailed bargaining rights for municipal workers and allowed
municipal officials to engage in an expedited process to unilaterally implement
plan design changes locally or to join the state's Group Insurance Commission.

Since the reform was signed into law in July 2011, 235 cities, towns and school
districts have used or leveraged the law to implement cost-saving plan design
changes at the expense of municipal employees.

The moratorium was included as part of the law to help protect retirees on a
fixed income. It was absolutely the right and fair thing to do to extend the
moratorium, and hypocritical of Rep. Lombardo and others to criticize it.

MICHAEL SULLIVAN

Plymouth

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             242 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                            December 25, 2016 Sunday

Over 4m Dubai residents have health insurance; do you?

BYLINE: Staff Report

LENGTH: 307 words


The Dubai Health Insurance Law No 11 of 2013 was adopted under the directives of
His Highness Shaikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime
Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai.

The Dubai Health Authority (DHA) announced that 98 per cent of Dubai
residents-more than 4 million- now have health insurance.

Humaid Al Qatami, Chairman of the Board and Director General of DHA said that
this big accomplishment adds to Dubai's numerous achievements, making it among
the pioneers in the health field.

Read on:Travel insurance: What you should know before plan

He said that exceeding the 4 million mark is a testimonial to the level of
awareness that Dubai residents have about the importance of the insurance law in
preserving their safety and health. He added that it also reaffirms their trust
in the health services, programs and initiatives of the authority.

Make a choice:Dubai health insurance deadline: Dh650 policy or Dh10,000 fine?

According to the Dubai Health Insurance Law that came into effect in January
2014, the legal liability for every sponsor is to provide an essential insurance
package- fixed between Dh550 and Dh700- so that those with salaries under
Dh4,000 receive adequate cover.

Did you know:UAE announces new price limits for car insurance

Dr Haidar Al Yousuf, Director of Health Funding at DHA said that all the
insurance companies are working nonstop to cope with the companies and
individuals who want to get the health insurance. He added that there has also
been large number of online transactions on the insurance company's websites.

Read on:Only 9% UAE residents ready to buy home insurance

Al Yousef also said that it is expected that the rest of the residents who did
not complete the procedures will do so in the upcoming days.

news@khaleejtimes.com

http://imgs.syndigate.info/28/44/65/148268541793.jpg



LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2016 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             243 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Massachesetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 12, 2010 Monday

EDITORIAL: To our good health

BYLINE: Cape Cod Times, Hyannis, Mass.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 602 words


Apr. 12--With all the misinformation flying across the Internet about the
recently passed national health insurance reform, state officials have developed
a useful link on a Web site to answer some frequently asked questions.

The site, (www.mahealthconnector.org, click the "health care reform" icon) was
developed by the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority, an
independent state agency created by the state's health care reform law of 2006.
The Connector helps Massachusetts residents find health insurance coverage.

Here is a partial list of the questions and answers:

Is national health insurance reform good for Massachusetts?

Yes. It will support and expand health insurance programs that are already in
place and working well here.

Federal funding for Massachusetts' Medicaid and Commonwealth Care programs will
increase by nearly $5 billion between 2014 and 2020.

Also in 2014, new federal tax subsidies will help people who earn up to 400
percent of the federal poverty level afford health insurance. Eligibility for
Massachusetts' subsidized program currently ends at 300 percent.

How do these percentages translate?

Today, an individual with an annual income of more than $33,000 does not qualify
for a public subsidy for insurance. In 2014, the limit will be about $43,000.

Today, a family of four with a yearly income of more than $66,000 does not
qualify for a public subsidy for insurance. In 2014, the limit will be about
$88,000.

Massachusetts residents will also benefit from expanded funding for community
health centers, assistance with prescription drug costs for seniors, and tax
credits for small employers.

Will national reform change my health insurance coverage?

Most Bay Staters will not see changes right away. Massachusetts already has many
of the consumer protections that will now be federal law.

For example, Massachusetts law does not allow insurers to deny coverage to
people with pre-existing medical conditions. Massachusetts also expanded
opportunities for parents to keep young adult children on their health plan
until the age of 26.

How does national health insurance reform help small business owners?

Employers with 25 or fewer employees and average annual wages of less than
$50,000 per employee can qualify for tax credits, beginning this year. They must
contribute at least 50 percent toward the premium for a health plan for their
employees.

From 2010 through 2013, this tax credit will offset up to 35 percent of the
employer's contribution, depending on the company's size and average annual
wage. The credit is capped at 25 percent for nonprofit employers.

In 2014, the maximum credit will increase to 50 percent of the employer
contribution for coverage purchased through an insurance exchange. The Health
Connector is Massachusetts' exchange.

...There will be new federal penalties for people who do not enroll in an
insurance plan, if they can afford it.

The Massachusetts law was the model for national reform, but there are
differences. State and federal officials will work to resolve them. Most of
these differences that need to be worked out do not take effect until 2014, so
state and federal officials have plenty of time to work them out.

To see more of the Cape Cod Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.capecodonline.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Cape Cod Times, Hyannis, Mass.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100412-CA-EDITORIAL-To-our-good-health-0412

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                         Copyright 2010 Cape Code Times


                             244 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            February 12, 2017 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

HEALTH COVERAGE

BYLINE: MICHELLE ANDREWS

SECTION: SMARTER LIVING; D; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867  words


Short-term health plans have been around for decades, bridging coverage gaps for
people who are between jobs or have recently graduated from school, among other
things. After the health care law passed, some people gravitated toward them
because they were willing to trade comprehensive coverage for a cheaper sticker
price - even if it meant paying a tax penalty for not having the comprehensive
coverage required in the law. Sales increased.

Now, as Republicans look for ways to weaken the health law's coverage
requirements and explore the possibility of not enforcing the requirement that
people have health insurance, short-term plans may be poised to grow even more.
If that happens, consumer advocates warn it could be bad for consumers.

As their name suggests, short-term plans provide coverage for a limited period
of time, often six months or less. They generally don't cover such things as
preexisting conditions, maternity services or prescription drugs. The policies
typically have maximum coverage limits of about $1 million. Insurers can turn
people down if they're sick and may decide not to renew someone's policy. All of
these practices are prohibited in plans that qualify as individual insurance
under the Affordable Care Act.

Precisely because of these limitations, however, the premiums are typically a
lot cheaper than those for ACA-compliant coverage. In the fourth quarter of
2016, the average monthly premium a shopper would pay for a short-term plan sold
through online insurance vendor ehealth.com was $124, compared with $393 for
someone who bought a regular Obamacare plan and didn't qualify for premium
subsidies.

When the health law passed, insurers increasingly began offering short-term
plans that stretched the definition of "short," sometimes providing coverage for
as long as 364 days.

"Carriers were exploiting a loophole in the law that defined a health insurance
plan as one that was 365 days," said Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at
Georgetown University's Center on Health Insurance Reforms. "If they were
shorter they didn't have to comply with ACA protections."

Short-term plans serve a tiny but growing proportion of the roughly 22 million
people who have coverage on the individual market. At the end of 2013, before
the health law's major reforms took effect, there were approximately 108,800
people covered by these policies, which earned premiums of $97.5 million,
according to figures from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
Two years later, roughly 148,100 people had short-term plans and premium
earnings have grown to $160.5 million.

Some insurers have taken notice. Online health insurance vendor Health Insurance
Innovations launched Agile Health Insurance in the spring of 2015 to focus on
sales of short-term plans. In the third quarter 2016, Agile sold 21,000
short-term policies.

"These short-term plans are not regulated like Obamacare plans, so carriers have
a lot of flexibility in benefits and pricing," said Sam Gibbs, Agile's executive
director. "It's almost like the old individual market before the ACA."

And that's just the problem, said some policy experts.

"To many consumers it looks like health insurance, except it's cheaper," said
Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Kaiser Family Foundation. But the plans
don't protect people when unforeseen events occur such as a car accident or a
cancer diagnosis. With a short-term plan, if you get sick or you're in the
hospital when your plan comes up for renewal, "it won't be renewed," Pollitz
said. (Kaiser Health News is an editorially independent program of the
foundation.)

Not all insurers embrace widespread sale of short-term plans. "The big health
insurance companies are really mixed on this," said Timothy Jost, emeritus
professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law and an expert on the
health law. "They see this as a seriously destabilizing force in the market,
this crap coverage."

Last October, the Obama administration issued a final rule that would make it
more difficult for consumers to buy short-term plans to substitute for regular
Obamacare plans. The regulation, which takes effect April 1, said short-term
plans must be less than three months in duration. People can request a renewal
of the policies, but insurers can turn them down. The policies and related
materials also have to prominently display a warning that they don't satisfy the
law's requirement that people have health insurance.

Some hope that the rule may be changed or rescinded by the Trump administration
or overturned by the new Congress under the little-used Congressional Review
Act. Neither option can happen at the stroke of a pen, however.

Health insurance brokers and agents are one group that would like to continue to
sell longer term short-term plans.

"Our folks do a lot of business with short-term plans," said Marcy Buckner, vice
president of government affairs at the National Association of Health
Underwriters, an industry group. The regulation is one that the group will
request that the Trump administration rescind.

"In most areas [a short-term plan] is cheaper, and it's some consumers' way of
saying, 'I don't need all of those things,'" said Buckner.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             245 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             June 30, 2009 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

Readers write

BYLINE: For the Journal-Constitution

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 488 words


HEALTH CARE

Government caused disparity in insurance

"Individual coverage frustrates Georgians" (News, June 21) ignores the
fundamental reason for disparity between employer-provided group health
insurance and private individual health insurance: government interference. It
is not "economies of scale" or having an HR department to advocate on an
employee's behalf that account for the fact that group health insurance offers
coverage with greater options and breadth than individual plans. From ERISA
laws, to the creation of HMOs to mandated employer-provided coverage, to COBRA
and HIPAA laws, actions taken by the federal government are responsible for
creating this inequity in the marketplace, by eliminating a market in which
companies are free to compete. As insurance companies have been forced to tailor
their group products to the government's demands, they have offset the costs of
government compliance in the only other area of their businesses where they are
freer to make actual business decisions --- individual health plans. The only
solution is to free insurance companies, employers and private citizens like me
from the shackles of regulations.

Jennifer Casey, Acworth

GOP needs to lay off tired phrases in debate

The Republican Party's opposition to some sort of national health care plan is
becoming tiresome. It is obvious to me that the lack of universal health
coverage is one of America's biggest problems. America ranks very low among
industrialized countries in many measures of health status, and poor people
receive markedly different medical services than affluent people. Both political
parties should try to work together to come up with a plan that solves some of
the problems in our health care system. But, all I hear from Republicans and
conservatives are phrases like "socialized medicine," "government takeover of
health care" and "rationing of health care." These phrases are tired mantras;
not helpful, and designed to derail any attempt to reform the existing
non-system. Republicans have some good ideas, and some valid criticisms of
President [Barack] Obama's plan. Can't they be constructive in helping to shape
a new system, rather than being the party of "no"?

Larry J. Pett, Atlanta

JUDICIARY

It's about time someone investigated judge

Re: "GBI files complaint over judge's conduct" (Metro, June 14), I am elated. I
lived in that county for 20 years. This investigation is long overdue. I am
among many others who would be more than happy to pay for a full and complete
investigation of Judge Kristina Cook Connelly. I compiled much over the years
which was sent to state and federal agencies, begging for their intervention in
the kangaroo court proceedings that occurred under Connelly's reign. Finally,
the rusty wheels of justice are beginning to turn. I look forward to honesty,
integrity and judicial equality being restored to the Lookout Mountain Judicial
Circuit.

Pat Horton, Atlanta

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2009 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             246 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday

County shut out on health meetings

BYLINE: By Keith Howard, Eagle Boston Bureau

SECTION: STATE; Headlines

LENGTH: 438 words


BOSTON -- Some Western Massachusetts legislators are angry over what they say is
the failure of state officials to plan public information meetings about the new
health care reform law in their districts, even though sessions have been
offered in other parts of the commonwealth since June.

Rep. William "Smitty" Pignatelli, D-Lenox, said the closest meeting scheduled is
in Chicopee this Saturday, about an hour's drive from his district.

"Unfortunately, they think that's Western Massachusetts," Pignatelli said. "If
there is an area that has a field, they think that's Western Mass."

He was among a group of legislators representing three Western Massachusetts
counties that wrote a letter asking for more outreach by the Commonwealth Health
Insurance Connector Authority, the group in charge of administering the state's
new mandatory health insurance law.

State Sens. Benjamin B. Downing and Stanley Rosenberg, along with state Reps.
Stephen Brewer, Denis Guyer, Stephen Kulik and Christopher N. Speranzo, signed
the letter.

The group complained that no meetings have been held to date in Berkshire,
Franklin or Hampshire counties, despite a Nov. 15 deadline recommended by the
Connector to enroll in health insurance. Those without insurance by Dec. 31 will
face a tax penalty of $219.

"We in the western part of the state were a little disappointed. (The
Commonwealth Connector) really didn't make it within a manageable distance of
our constituents," said Downing, D-Pittsfield.

The state Legislature established the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector
Authority as part of the mandatory health insurance law to make sure that people
understand the options available to them.

The Connector Authority began reaching out to people, starting outside of Fenway
Park in Boston, before the Red Sox began their season.

Downing said his constituents are getting postcards warning that they will be
penalized, but with no instructions on what to do.

"We need a physical body to sit and explain. They (Commonwealth Connector) have
an obligation to Western Mass.," he said.

The legislators said that many of their constituents live outside of Boston news
outlets. Getting information from the Connector's Web site,
www.mahealthconnector.org , also can be difficult because the area has no access
to high-speed Internet.

"There are 32 communities in Western Massachusetts which have no access to
broadband. Of the 48 communities I represent, only 11 of them have access,"
Downing said.

Officials with the Commonwealth Connector said they understand the legislators'
concerns and are planning a forum in Western Massachusetts in the near future.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            April 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                 METRO EDITION

Online tools aim to help with federal health law

BYLINE: JACKIE CROSBY; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 281 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new site uses true-or-false questions to help users figure out the
Affordable Care Act.


A number of online tools are cropping up to help people figure out how the
federal health care law will affect them in 2014, when the most significant
provisions of the law kick in. Two of the biggest changes will require that all
citizens have insurance and that insurers no longer reject those with
pre-existing conditions.

The latest website launched Wednesday, and aims to help Minnesotans figure out
how the law will change health insurance coverage. The site -
myhealthcarefuture.org - was funded by a coalition of the state's major health
insurance companies and is a collaboration with the Children's Defense
Fund-Minnesota, Citizens League, Minnesota Chamber of Commerce and MN Community
Measurement.

The website takes consumers and small business owners through a series of true
or false questions to help

clear up misconceptions about the federal Affordable Care Act. Perhaps most
valuable is the "Resources" tab that provides links to state-run websites,
offers information tailored to individuals and small businesses in Minnesota,
and points to consumer-friendly resources from the federal government and
others, such as the Kaiser Family Foundation.

The state of Minnesota's website on health insurance exchanges (www.mnsure.org)
has information about how the exchange will work for individuals, families and
small businesses beginning in October. An online calculator helps consumers
determine whether they qualify for subsidies or tax credits on the exchange,
known as MNsure, and how much insurance might cost.

Exact prices of premiums won't be known until at least May 17, when insurance
companies submit rate requests to the Department of Commerce.

Jackie Crosby · 612-673-7335

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             248 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            November 25, 2013 Monday

Obamacare in disarray even after President Obama's tweak

BYLINE: OUR VIEW

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 532  words


President Barack Obama bowed to reality when he made further tweaks to his
signature law, the Affordable Care Act.

It was an overdue admission from Obama that Obamacare, as it is also known, is
failing. Millions of people have had their individual health insurance policies
canceled, and the Obamacare website is still broken after its Oct. 1 debut. It
now seems unlikely the website will be completely fixed by a new Nov. 30
deadline.

The rollout of Obamacare in Florida has been a debacle. Only 3,500 Floridians
signed up the first month -- in a state with 3.8 million uninsured residents.
And, according to reports, at least 300,000 state residents were faced with
losing health insurance coverage before the president allowed an extension of
individual insurance policies.

The question now is if the ACA can be salvaged. If so, it may take a change in
the law -- and that means congressional approval -- not another dubious
presidential edict.

Obama has gotten quite good at tweaking his signature law. But his latest tweak
has already raised questions about what authority the president has to change
the law without Congress.

Obama said he would allow many of the individual health insurance policies --
previously deemed "substandard" by new Obamacare guidelines -- to stay in effect
for another year.

Almost immediately, this raised questions. Washington state's insurance
commissioner, Mike Kreidler, said he would not agree to continue the canceled
policies.

"I have serious concerns about how President Obama's proposal would be
implemented," said Kreidler, "and more significantly, its potential impact on
the overall stability of our health insurance market."

Another concern is how the private insurers will react. Are they really going to
resurrect individual health insurance policies they plan to cancel, so they can
then cancel them a year from now?

And are those policies even legal, even after the president's proclamation?

The ACA passed Congress in 2010 and received the president's signature. Congress
needs to be involved in mending it.

President Obama has done everything he can to avoid that path. Congress is
half-controlled by the Democrats, who have a majority in the U.S. Senate, and
the Republicans, who control the House of Representatives. The GOP has tried to
repeal Obamacare dozens of times.

Obama did tweak the law by giving waivers and extensions to employers, unions
and more. But he avoided anything that would get at the law's heart -- the
individual mandate. Forcing people to have health insurance, through a tax, was
a back-door attempt to do what has never been done before -- to force national
health care coverage.

But it was easier to pass the law than to implement it. The health insurance
mandate has somehow canceled serviceable individual insurance policies for
millions of Americans -- which they were explicitly promised they could keep.

Obama realizes how bad it all looks and sought to mitigate the political damage.

But the president needs to worry more about the structure and integrity of the
law and its administration.

Now, Obama has to go to Congress for help salvaging his signature law, or
Obamacare may collapse and cause further nationwide damage.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2013 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2013 News-Journal Corporation


                             249 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                          September 29, 1998, Tuesday

Let people control their health plans

BYLINE: BY SUE A. BLEVINS

SECTION: EDITORIAL/OPINION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 511 words


Right now, the most debated U.S. health-care issue is whether individuals should
be allowed to sue their health plans, especially managed-care plans. The
Democrats argue that current federal law should be changed to permit individuals
to sue plans that deny them medically necessary care. The Republicans respond
that allowing individuals to sue their plans and employers would raise insurance
premiums and increase the number of uninsured individuals. Both parties have
identified a serious problem. Individuals are increasingly losing control over
their health-care decisions. But, unfortunately, neither party has the right
solution. The key to giving individuals true control over their health care is
neither to encourage lawsuits nor to restrict them. Instead, individuals need to
own their health policies. Individuals - not employers - should be the ones
choosing their health plans and signing contracts with health insurers.
Employers don't choose and sign contracts for your fire insurance or your
automobile insurance. So why are they choosing your health insurance? And
employers don't get to decide who repairs your house or who fixes your car. So
why should they be allowed to choose who fixes your body? They shouldn't! The
main reason that workers rely on employers for health insurance is because of
the federal tax law. Currently, employer-sponsored health insurance is fully
excluded from taxation, but individually purchased health insurance is not. This
means that a worker earning $25,000 a year would have to pay approximately $540
more for health insurance if he purchased it individually rather than through
his employer. Consequently, the government manipulates the health insurance
market, placing individuals at an unfair disadvantage for purchasing health
insurance on their own. Yet neither the Democrats' nor the Republicans' bill
addresses this very important issue. Neither puts the patient back in the
driver's seat when it comes to choosing health care. The only way patients will
have true choice in health care is if they become the purchaser and owner of
their own health-insurance policies. Congress could easily put patients back in
charge, without encouraging or restricting lawsuits, by changing the federal tax
law for health insurance. Right now, members of Congress are debating how to
spend the anticipated budget surplus. Why not give individuals a tax credit for
health insurance? Then, if employers fail to meet the needs of their employees,
individuals can buy insurance on their own. Something as personal as health care
should not be chosen by employers, lawyers, federal officials or the courts. It
should be chosen by individuals and their doctors (or other practitioners) of
choice.

The Journal of Commerce welcomes opinion articles of up to 750 words on issues
of public policy. They may be e-mailed, without attachments, to
gstorey(AT)mail.joc.com; or mailed to Editorial Director, The Journal of
Commerce, Two World Trade Center, 27th Floor, New York, N.Y. 10048; or faxed to
(212) 837-7007.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                             250 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            March 12, 1998, Thursday

HEALTH-INSURANCE LAW FOR WORKERS CHANGING JOBS MISSES ITS GOAL

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 5

LENGTH: 61 words


Law intended to guarantee that Americans will not lose their health insurance
when changing jobs is not working out as planned; government auditors find
insurance companies are charging 140% to 600% of standard premiums for people
who try to use the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act to
convert their group policies to individual coverage (S)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             251 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 10, 2015 Friday

Court rules federal law overrides some Missouri restrictions of health insurance
navigators

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: Toronto


Toronto Money Exchange has issued the following press release:

An appeals court ruled Friday that Missouri can't limit health insurance
navigators' ability to help people obtain insurance under President Barack
Obama's health care law -- a ruling that advocates say could have implications
for other states that have instituted similar restrictions.

The 8th Circuit Court in St. Louis blocked some parts of a Missouri law that
limits the information certified counsellors authorized by the health care law
could give people seeking health insurance. However, the court said the state
can institute licensure requirements for navigators and counsellors.

At issue was a 2013 Missouri law that had set limitations on people helping
others to sign up for health insurance. The court ruled that those limitations
conflict with federal rules that supersede them.

"The court made clear that consumer assisters in Missouri are unrestricted by
those provisions and they can help enrol people in health insurance," said Jay
Angoff, a lawyer in the case who used to oversee implementation of the health
care law for the federal government.

The Missouri law had been on hold since January 2014 while courts considered the
matter.

The court blocked a prohibition on navigators or certified application
counsellors giving advice on health plans or discussing health plans not listed
on the federal healthcare.gov website. The court's decision also blocks a
requirement for counsellors to direct consumers who have had insurance through
an agent or broker to talk to an insurance provider instead.

Those requirements would have limited the help community groups could provide to
people trying to sign up for health insurance, Angoff said.

Dale Wrigley, the director of engagement and advocacy for the St. Louis Effort
for AIDS, one of the parties in the lawsuit, said there were concerns that they
would not even have been able to tell people eligible for Medicaid to apply for
it because that might qualify as advice.

"There were questions of whether we would've been able to give that advice on
whether doctors were included in a plan," he said.

Friday's decision was specific to Missouri's law, but Angoff said at least a
dozen other states have enacted at least one similar limitation on the health
care law.

Nanci Gonder, a spokeswoman for Attorney General Chris Koster's office, said the
attorney general would talk to bipartisan leadership before determining the next
step in the case.

For any query about this article or other content requirements please email:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             252 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Ruidoso News (New Mexico)

                             July 12, 2012 Thursday

Martinez administration plans for health insurance exchanges

BYLINE: Hal Rhodes

SECTION: OPINION COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 644 words


Upon Reflection

Just two days before the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the constitutionality of
President Obama's health care law, Gov. Susana Martinez's administration in
Santa Fe announced the creation of a task force charged with developing a state
health insurance exchange.

One of the major features of that law, known as the Affordable Care Act, is that
each state must institute health insurance exchanges by 2014 for the purpose of
insuring a competitive insurance marketplace in the state, offering choices in
health plans and assisting consumers in understanding the insurance options
available to them.

The goal is to provide small businesses and private individuals greater leverage
and information in selecting affordable health insurance policies appropriate to
their needs and employees.

Many states embraced the idea of insurance exchanges, both to increase their
number of insured residents and as a way to control spiraling health care costs.

A number of other states, notably those with hard-line Republican governors bent
on undoing the president's health care measure, have refused even to consider
health insurance exchange.

It's a shortsighted posture for Republican politicos who normally rail against
any sort of federal intervention in state affairs.

The fact is, should any state fail to institute its own insurance exchanges by
2014, the federal government is obligated by law do it for them.

It is shortsighted, as well, because in states where exchanges are already being
used, they have helped many people and small businesses obtain affordable
insurance which heretofore had been unavailable to them.

A case in point is Massachusetts, where polls consistently show that state's
exchange (called The Connector) to be one of the most popular health insurance
reforms pushed through by Mitt Romney during his term as governor. Indeed, the
president has credited Romney's reforms as the model for of his own health law.

Nonetheless, a slew of Republican governors have pledged not to allow exchanges
in their states, among them Chris Christie of New Jersey, Scott Walker of
Wisconsin, Rick Scott of Florida, and Bobby Jindal of Louisiana.

So you have to wonder, given the partisan vitriol to which top GOP politicians
seem prone since the Supreme Court gave thumbs up to the president's health
reform law, whether Gov. Martinez would have permitted her Health Department to
buck her party's anti-Obamacare tide had it chosen to announce its insurance
exchange task force two days after that decision rather than two days before.

In any case, a few Republican governors (darn few) are proceeding to create
exchanges in their states, including Alabama where Gov. Robert Bentley issued an
executive order moving forward with his state's exchange quite some time ago.

Poor states like Bentley's Alabama, Jindal's Louisiana and Susana Martinez's New
Mexico only stand to gain from health insurance exchanges, since the power of
numbers has historically impressed the insurance industry.

Giant corporations and large institutions will be the first to admit that the
sheer size of their insurance pools routinely help to temper escalating premium
costs for their employees enrolled in "group" policies. There's no reason
whatsoever for states not to use their collective clout to that end.

But this is a presidential election year and reason has long since flown the
coop out there on the campaign trail where nonsense is proffered as truth and
balderdash passes for brilliance.

It has created some seriously ill-informed voters.

Last week, the often sassy weekly newsmagazine, The Week, reported on
aYouGov.com poll which found that "63 percent of Republicans still say they
believe Iraq had weapons of mass destruction when the U.S. invaded in 2003."

And "among Republicans who say Iraq had WMDs, 64 percent believe President Obama
was born in another country."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 Ruidoso News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                             253 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

How the health care law affects you

BYLINE: Community

SECTION: HEADLINES

LENGTH: 1067 words


On Wednesday, Gov. Mitt Romney signed a massive health care bill that will
require everyone to have health insurance by July 1, 2007.

Many of the particulars will be worked out in the coming months, but here is
what the bill as currently written means to you if you are:

* An individual or family earning up to three times the federal poverty level.
That's equivalent to as much as $29,400 for an individual, $39,600 for a family
of two, $49,800 for a family of three, or $60,000 for a family of four:

If you are not eligible for Medicaid, you will be able to receive Commonwealth
Care Health Insurance. The newly created Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector
will run the program.

You will pay no income tax on the money you use to buy health insurance, which
could be equal to a 30 percent discount on your monthly premiums.

You also will be eligible for state subsidies that will be set based on your
household income. But that subsidy hasn't been determined, nor has the total
cost of the health plan.

If you or a member of your family has a health insurance plan offered through an
employer but can't afford it, the employer's contribution to your health plan
will instead be given to the Connector. If you or a family member work multiple
jobs, multiple employers can pay toward the cost of your health insurance.

There will be no deductible for anyone between 100 percent and 300 percent of
the poverty line, but there will be a monthly premium.

For anyone under 100 percent of the poverty line -- which is $9,800 for an
individual -- there will be no deductible and no monthly premium.

* An individual making more than three times the poverty level but not receiving
health insurance from an employer. You will be able to buy health insurance
through the new Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector, and will be able to buy
the same plan as small businesses. Officials estimate that that could result in
a 24 percent reduction in the cost of premiums.

You will be able to pay for health insurance using pre-tax dollars -- the same
way you might contribute to a 401(k) plan or a Health Savings Account. That
could yield as much as a 30 percent discount in monthly premiums.

Both individual and family plans will be available.

* An individual earning more than three times the federal poverty level but who
doesn't want health insurance. You are the obvious loser in the health insurance
bill.

Everyone in Massachusetts must have health insurance by July 2007. Those who
don't will lose their state income-tax exemption in the first year, which could
cost you $189 as an individual or $378 as a couple. The second year, you will be
assessed half the annual cost of one of the new, low-cost health plans. That
could be from $1,200 to $5,000.

There are some possible outs, however. If your religious beliefs prohibit you
from seeking health care, you are exempt; likewise, if you can prove you have
enough money to pay for your own medical expenses without insurance, you are
exempt.

Also, if the state concludes that there are no affordable health plans, the
penalty will not be enforced.

* An individual between the ages of 19 and 26. If you do not participate in a
health insurance plan at work and are not covered by a parent's plan, you will
have the option of signing up for a special insurance program for people 19 to
26.

The program will be administered by the new Health Insurance Connector.

The plan has not been created, but the idea is that it will be a stripped-down
insurance offering that will be significantly cheaper than traditional health
insurance, in part because 19- to 26-year-olds are a healthier population. The
cost is still unknown.

Also, the new law allows people to stay on a parent's plan for up to two years
after they no longer qualify as a dependent. So if your mother or father has a
health insurance plan and is already paying a family rate, it would be cheaper
to stay on that plan as long as possible.

n A small-business owner with 11 or more employees. You will have to either
offer health insurance to your employees or pay a penalty of $295 a year for
each full-time employee. (This assumes that the Legislature overrides Romney's
veto of this provision as expected.)

If a single employee receives free care from a hospital three times, or if your
business has five or more instances of employees receiving free care in a year,
you will be hit with a "free rider" surcharge. The first $50,000 of treatment
per employee will be exempted. Beyond that sum, you could be forced to pay
between 10 percent and 100 percent of the cost of care.

Business owners will get some help, however.

The state is expanding its Insurance Partnership program, which helps small
businesses pay for health insurance.

And if you have 50 or fewer employees, you also will be able to use the state's
new Health Insurance Connector to buy insurance, which should give you easy
access to cost-effective plans and make them more attractive to your employees
by allowing them to spend pre-tax dollars.

* An individual who receives health insurance through an employer. Nothing in
the health care bill should have a direct effect on you. In theory, however, the
new law could lead to a reduction in the cost of health insurance.

The logic works like this: Insurance is designed to pool the money of everybody
-- the healthy and the sick. The sick are supported by the money of the healthy.

By requiring everyone to have insurance, the logic goes, low-risk people who
have been willing to go without insurance will jump into the risk pool,
contributing dollars rather than spending them.

At the same time, hospitals have been passing on the costs of treating the
uninsured to health insurance plans by building the expense into the rates they
charge insurers such as Blue Cross Blue Shield.

With everyone in the state required to have health insurance, that practice will
stop, lowering rates. If rates are lower, insurance premiums should go down.

* Anyone over the age of 65. You will not be directly affected by the law and
will continue to be covered by Medicare or private health insurance plans.

* A child. All children will be eligible for some form of health insurance.

Sources: Material was gathered through interviews with the Massachusetts
Hospital Association, Health Care for All and local health officials, and was
taken from the health care bill passed by the Legislature and from its summaries
of that law.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             254 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            July 27, 1994, Wednesday

The pizza price wars

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 14

LENGTH: 541 words


To hear some of America's corporate leaders tell it, the "employer mandate"
proposal for President Clinton's health-care reform plan amounts to a death
sentence for businesses. They simply will not survive, those executives say, if
they're required to pay for part of their employees' health insurance.

But here is an interesting fact: Some of the companies that say they can't
afford to provide coverage for their American workers have found a way to afford
it - and continue to thrive - in countries where employer mandates are already
the law.

The Health Care Reform Project, an advocacy group that favors universal
health-care coverage, went after two such companies - McDonald's and Pizza Hut -
in recent newspaper ads. The group had planned to air a TV version, but the
threat of legal action by Pizza Hut prevented that.

The ad said many of the corporations' American workers don't get health-care
coverage through their jobs. But all McDonald's and Pizza Hut employees in
Germany and Japan get at least part of their health insurance paid for by the
companies because the law in those countries requires it.

At first, Pizza Hut hinted at libel suits against any TV station that aired such
an ad. But when company president and CEO Allan Huston appeared last week before
the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee, he conceded that the ad's facts
were correct. He went on to call the tone of the ad "mean-spirited." The head of
McDonald's declined to appear before the committee.

Huston also debunked the infamous $ 20 pizza that Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas and
other opponents of employer mandates have been tossing around. Dole has claimed
that Pizza Hut can provide the same health benefits to American workers that it
does for workers overseas only if American consumers are willing to pay the same
$ 20 per pizza that people in Germany and Japan have to pay.

But Huston admitted that that is not so. Health-care benefits don't come close
to accounting for the price of pizza in those foreign countries, Huston
acknowledged. Outside estimates using the companies' own figures project that an
$ 11 pizza would cost about $ 12 if employer mandates were in place.

Pizza Hut's chief was not completely contrite during his committee appearance.
He said McDonald's and Pizza Hut are being unfairly singled out by health-care
reform advocates. He said Pizza Hut, whose employees are eligible for basic
health-care benefits after six months on the job, is ahead of others in the
industry.

On those points, Huston is right. There are many employers of minimum-wage and
part-time workers who don't provide health-care coverage. Those businesses get a
free ride when the cost of their employees' health care gets shifted to
companies that do provide coverage for workers.

If employer mandates are enforced, businesses that provide little or no
health-care coverage for their workers will have an added expense. At the same
time, some companies that now provide health benefits will save money in the
long run.

Overall, providing universal coverage through employer mandates will help
control the current spiral of health-care costs in America. That would be good
for business, no matter how Pizza Hut, or anyone else, slices it.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH942090138

GRAPHIC: Photo: A pizza.

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                             255 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Indianapolis Business Journal

                                October 31, 2011

WellPoint CFO: Light penalty undermines mandate;
Insurer worried about rising costs from health reform law

LENGTH: 694 words


WellPoint CFO: Light penalty undermines mandate Insurer worried about rising
costs from health reform law

As constitutional challenges to the health reform law's mandate to buy insurance
advance, WellPoint Inc.'s chief financial officer is reiterating that the
company does not object to the mandate, just to its modest penalties.

Wayne DeVeydt, speaking Oct. 21 at the Columbia Club downtown, praised the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 for its success at extending
insurance coverage to more people, as well as acknowledging that his industry
makes itself "an easy villain" for politicians.

But he also criticized the law for further hiking the cost of health care and
health insurance.

The chief target of DeVeydt's opprobrium was the law's combination of requiring
insurance companies to take all comers-regardless of health status-while fining
individuals what he described as small amounts for failing to buy coverage.

"I would like to buy life insurance the moment I'm about to die," said DeVeydt,
who has been CFO for Indianapolis-based WellPoint since 2007.

That's what he expects many Americans to do with health insurance once they are
required to buy coverage in 2014. They will not buy it until they have a major
illness for which they need treatment.

By 2016, the health reform law will ramp up fines on individuals without health
insurance to $695 per year or $2,085 for families. However, the fines could run
as high as $12,000 per year for those earning $100,000 to $500,000 per year,
according to an analysis by the Congressional Research Service.

The average family policy costs $15,000, according to the California-based
Kaiser Family Foundation.

Until fines get a lot closer to the price of health insurance, DeVeydt said,
many people won't buy coverage-especially the young and healthy, whose unused
premiums offset the high cost of care for older patients.

"Would you ever feed the meter if feeding the meter costs more than the
[parking] ticket?" DeVeydt said in another analogy. "People say that's not going
to happen. It is going to happen."

Still, DeVeydt said the individual mandate is necessary to achieve a goal of
universal health insurance. Currently, about 84 percent of Americans are covered
by some form of health insurance, either public or private.

"If you really want to cover everybody, you really have to have it," he said.

In September, a federal appeals court in Atlanta ruled that the mandate was
unconstitutional, differing from an earlier decision by an appeals court in
Cincinnati that upheld the law.

The cases are likely to be considered by the U.S. Supreme Court, perhaps as
early as next spring.

WellPoint provides health benefits for 34.4 million people, more than any other
U.S. company. The company and key rivals have seen their customer bases grow
this year, in part because some employers are hiring again amid signs the
economy is improving.

In the third quarter, WellPoint added 169,000 customers-with the majority coming
from small and midsize businesses-pushing the gains for the year above 1
million.

"The company's lowest-cost position in its markets enables attractive pricing,
which is a point of ever-increasing sensitivity among small employers," David
Windley, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville, Tenn., told Bloomberg News.

WellPoint earned $683.2 million in the third quarter, down 7.6 percent from the
same quarter a year ago, when it earned $739.1 million.

On a per-share basis, the results appear better because WellPoint has
repurchased nearly 42 million shares in the past year, a 10-percent reduction of
its shares outstanding.

In the quarter, the company recorded per-share profit of $1.90. Excluding
investment gains, the company would have earned $1.77 per share, 3 cents higher
than in the third quarter last year.

The company was able to add customers despite cutting selling, general and
administrative expenses $185 million, or nearly 3 percent, this year, WellPoint
CEO Angela Braly said in a statement.

The enrollment growth in the latest quarter was the company's second-strongest
in the last three years, Jason Gurda, an analyst at Leerink Swann in New York,
told Bloomberg.

*

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 IBJ Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             256 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           February 2, 2013 Saturday

Town, union officials to either embrace state plan or new plan of their own to
cut health care costs

BYLINE: , By Dick Lindsay,Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 489 words


Sunday February 3, 2013

LEE -- Lee wants to join the nearly 200 cities, towns and school districts that
have collectively saved more than $200 million under the state's 18-month-old
municipal health care reform law.

Town officials and municipal union leaders are working toward a deal intended to
reduce the increase in Lee's health insurance premiums for fiscal 2014 starting
July 1, according to Town Administrator Robert Nason.

"The plan we're looking to propose would meet the needs of the workers and be
affordable to [taxpayers]," Nason said. "Health insurance is one of our biggest
budget breakers."

The nearly $2.9 million in health insurance costs accounts for 14 percent of the
town's $20.2 million operating budget for fiscal 2013, which ends July 1. The
$2.9 million reflects a nearly 5 percent increase from fiscal 2012, atop the 10
percent hike the previous budget year.

A state law enacted in July 2011 allows municipalities and school districts to
join the state-sponsored Group Insurance Commission system or develop their own
health insurance plan comparable to savings under the GIC.

Gov. Deval L. Patrick's administration recently cited statewide savings of $207
million in municipal health care costs under the new law.

"With labor at the table, municipal health care reform has had a powerful and
immediate impact on municipal finances across the commonwealth, while
maintaining quality, affordable health care for working families," Patrick
stated in a press release.

Under the law, communities can force the issue by adopting and using a provision
creating a timeline both a municipality and union officials must follow to reach
an accord on health insurance savings or join the GIC.

Last week, the Lee Board of Selectmen unanimously approved acceptance of the
provision, but indicated using it to reach a health insurance cost-cutting plan
will be a last resort.

"Just because we voted this doesn't mean we're going to evoke this," said
Selectman Gordon Bailey.

Nevertheless, the 114-member Lee Education Association -- the teacher's union
that represents the majority town employees -- is concerned about having the
state law hanging over its head.

"Having that legislation out there, we don't need it knowing we have a good
process in place," said LEA President Ginger Armstrong.

Armstrong was referring to the current cordial negotiations between the town and
union officials that began in mid-December. Both sides are gathering information
to help them craft the best plan possible for paying future health insurance
costs, according to Town Treasurer Donna Toomey.

"We're moving in the right direction, we just don't have al the possible [health
insurance] rates yet," Toomey said.

Town officials and the eight municipal bargaining units hope to reach an
agreement on a more cost effective health insurance plan by Lee's Annual Town
Meeting in early May.

To reach Dick Lindsay:
rlindsay@berkshireeagle.com ,
or (413) 496-6233.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             257 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                              June 29, 2012 Friday
                          2 - All-round First Edition

US Supreme Court deals Obama a big victory on healthcare reform

BYLINE: BRAD NORINGTON, WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 754  words


THE US Supreme Court has delivered Barack Obama a huge political victory after
upholding the constitutional validity of his signature healthcare law.

A court majority early today ruled the US President's plan for introducing
individual healthcare by requiring all Americans to carry health insurance was
valid because the provision was appropriate as a tax.

In an early reading of the judgment, the court knocked back the Obama
administration's defence of compulsory health insurance based on an application
of the interstate commerce clause allowing the US government to regulate the
health market.

But the court accepted that the penalty for people not carrying health insurance
-- a tax -- was an allowable exercise of federal government power under the US
constitution.

The decision is a big boost for Mr Obama as he faces a presidential election in
November. The health law will now stand as the most significant achievement of
his first term and he can confidently go to voters with the knowledge that his
reforms can proceed.

When the law was passed by the US congress in March 2010, few on Mr Obama's side
thought a constitutional challenge had a hope of succeeding.

Many Democrats, including then house Speaker Nancy Pelosi, scoffed at the
suggestion.

As recently as last month, Ms Pelosi, now Democratic minority leader, said her
party was ``ironclad'' on the constitutionality of the healthcare law. She
predicted a 6-3 court decision in favour.

Mr Obama has repeatedly expressed his confidence in the law's constitutionality,
but he also warned that a decision ruling against it would amount to judicial
activism out of step with modern precedent and the community.

Some Democrats had gone further, claiming a decision to strike out the law's
main components would prove conservative judges were really Republican
partisans.

Mr Obama's healthcare law was challenged by 26 Republican states opposed to the
mandatory health insurance provision. As the case worked its way up lower courts
with mixed results, the administration refined its legal argument.
Solicitor-General Donald Verrilli said during three days of Supreme Court oral
submissions in March that the health law was not based on forcing people to buy
a product they did not want.

Rather, he argued, the law used the interstate commerce power of the
constitution that allowed congress to regulate the health insurance market. At
some point everyone would be forced to enter this market. And a proposed penalty
for not buying health insurance amounted to a tax, Mr Verrilli argued.

The Obama administration's outlook turned bleak when Mr Verrilli was subjected
to tough questions. Among those grilling him were Chief Justice John Roberts and
judge Anthony Kennedy, two conservative judges that Democrats had hoped would
accept modern precedent and be part of a 6-3 ruling in favour.

Chief Justice Roberts asked Mr Verrilli why the government could not force
people to buy mobile phones if its case was based on healthcare being
``unpredictable and often involuntary''.

``You don't know when you're going to need police assistance,'' the judge said.

Justice Kennedy soured the hopes of Obama supporters when he said the government
had placed a ``very heavy burden of justification'' in relying on the authority
of the US congress to make health insurance compulsory. Early on, Democrats had
thought they were safe with the Obama plan because compulsory private health
insurance was originally a Republican-supported idea to avoid government-funded
healthcare.

Republicans have since changed their tune, opposing the ``individual mandate''
point-blank. Politically, Republicans have argued that the recovery period after
a recession was the wrong time for Mr Obama to impose new costs for the
government and consumers.

Healthcare reform was meant to be Mr Obama's big-ticket policy to extend
coverage to millions without insurance coverage, and to regulate insurers that
have historically discriminated against the chronically ill and people with
pre-existing medical conditions.

Without the health changes intended to start in 2014, Mr Obama's first term
would look bereft of major domestic achievement. He has abandoned climate change
legislation and struggled to revive the economy as unemployment has stayed above
8 per cent.

Mr Obama can boast about the passage of financial regulations law to oversee
banks since the global financial crisis, but this legislation passed in 2010 is
still bogged down in detail as congress members haggle over how it would work in
practice.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             258 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

Will health overhaul provide better care for U.S. workers?

BYLINE: Grace-Marie Turner, Jim McDermott; For the AJC

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1282 words


Yes.

Entrepreneurs will better afford coverage, options will increase.

By Jim McDermott

As we continue to slowly climb out of the worst economic recession since the
Great Depression, I am constantly taking stock of what Congress must do to bring
us back to prosperity.

In 2008, we were losing more than 750,000 jobs a month, borrowing hundreds of
billions for two wars, and borrowing even more to make up for the Bush tax cuts
for the rich.

But since President Obama took office, we have taken major steps forward in
putting the economy on the road to recovery. And while the economy is still
struggling to get on its feet, what seems to have gotten lost in the headlines
is how the recently passed health reform legislation will help our economy down
the road.

Back in 2008, just about everyone was clamoring for meaningful health reform.
The reason was simple: Health care costs were stifling American prosperity.

We answered their call, and I believe health reform will help American
businesses and workers in three primary ways: ensuring small businesses can
afford health care for their employees, making certain workers can take home a
greater share of their wages, and promoting entrepreneurship.

You'll never hear a politician argue about the value of small businesses ---
they are the backbone of our economy. But insurance companies can charge them
extremely high rates because they are insuring a smaller number of people, and
if even one employee gets sick, everyone faces a higher cost.

So small businesses are left with two bad choices: pay insurance companies
exorbitant rates or provide little or no health insurance to employees.

This is a decision that is crippling small-business owners' ability to be
competitive, and it's the American workers who will ultimately suffer. Health
reform started to change this.

First, many small businesses will be eligible for tax credits to help pay for
health insurance. Second, for those small businesses that still can't afford
health insurance, beginning in 2014 their employees will be able to buy health
insurance in the state or regional exchanges, many of whom will receive
financial assistance to help defray the costs of insurance.

But the health reform law won't just help small businesses --- it's designed to
help every American worker by ensuring that they'll get to take home more of
their paycheck. Because of the rise of health care costs, employers have had to
reduce wage increases in order to maintain the same level of benefits for their
employees.

One thing the health reform law stresses is preventive care --- which can save
costs down the road and will be a mandatory free benefit. Further, new
regulations will require insurance companies to use more of consumer dollars
toward actual health care services.

The law was also crafted to help promote entrepreneurship. A recent article in
U.S. News and World Report indicated that as many as 25 percent of American
workers decide against starting their own businesses because they will lose the
benefits they get through their employer, will be forced to pay unaffordable
premiums or denied coverage altogether. Between the tax credits and increased
competition through insurance exchanges, entrepreneurs will be better able to
afford health coverage. Finally, the reform law will require insurance companies
to take all consumers regardless of pre-existing conditions.

I know that this law is far from perfect, and I know that we are going to have
to continue to improve it over the next several years, but it's still a major
step forward. This legislation will undoubtedly help our workers and our
businesses, both large and small, afford health coverage. Politicians of all
stripes should recognize the opportunity the health reform law presents to
propel our country forward.

U.S. Rep. Jim McDermott is a Washington state Democrat

No.

Businesses will drop health plans, hire fewer workers due to costs.

By Grace-Marie Turner

Americans were promised they would save money and that their jobs and health
insurance would be more secure if health reform passed. But the promises already
are being broken, and workers will pay the price for ObamaCare's failures.

Health costs will rise, taxes will go up, millions will lose the health
insurance they have now, wages will flatten, and businesses will find it harder
to create new jobs. This is not a prescription for a more prosperous future.

Soaring costs: President Obama said that by the end of his first term in office,
families' health costs would be $2,500 lower. But the Congressional Budget
Office says families who buy their own health insurance will pay $15,200 a year
for a policy by 2016 under ObamaCare but only $13,100 if the law hadn't been
enacted. That means families will pay $2,100 more, not $2,500 less --- a
difference of $4,600 a year.

The government will, for the first time, tell Americans how much they must spend
on a government-mandated health insurance policy. Some people will get
subsidies, but most will not. For many, health insurance may be the first or
second biggest expense in their family budget. Those who don't comply will be
fined on their taxes.

The new law did nothing to deter lawsuit abuse, so doctors will continue to
practice defensive medicine, driving health costs ever higher and making it
harder for firms to continue providing coverage and pay workers decent salaries.

New taxes: The new law levies $500 billion in new taxes to pay for its
entitlement expansions. The administration's own actuary, Rick Foster, said
these taxes will "generally be passed through to health consumers in the form of
higher drug and devices prices and higher premiums." In other words, the middle
class will pay.

Less coverage and fewer jobs: The health law will also swell the deficit. The
former director of the Congressional Budget Office, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, says
that the subsidies for health insurance in the health law will cost $1.4
trillion, not the $450 billion estimated by the CBO.

That's because as many as 35 million people will lose their health insurance at
work since employers will have a strong financial incentive to drop coverage and
dump workers into taxpayer-subsidized plans.

Under the law, companies face only $2,000 in fines if they don't offer coverage
but would pay an average of $20,000 if they provide health insurance for workers
with families.

Firms that do continue to offer insurance will have a hard time paying the high
premiums and still offering pay raises.

Hiring new workers, particularly entry-level employees, will be a risk fewer
employers will be willing to take. Low-income workers are most threatened: If an
employer can't justify paying their salaries plus mandatory health costs,
workers may very well lose jobs.

Stymies innovation: And if health is wealth, all of us will suffer as money that
medical companies would have spent on research into new treatments and cures is
instead taken up in federal taxes to pay for new entitlements.

If U.S. firms cut their research spending, medical innovation will be reduced.
We may never know of the new treatments for cancer or the cure for Parkinson's
disease that a key scientist would have found if her lab hadn't closed.

Higher health costs, lost jobs, lower wages, higher taxes and less medical
innovation --- American workers will not be more prosperous as a result of
ObamaCare. We need health sector reform, but this isn't it.

That is why poll after poll shows a strong majority wants ObamaCare repealed and
replaced with sensible reform that doesn't wreak havoc with our health sector
and economy.

Grace-Marie Turner is president and founder of the Galen Institute, which is
partly funded by the drug and medical industries.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2010 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             259 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             April 26, 2013 Friday

Uninsured Population Swells in Advance of U.S. Health Law

LENGTH: 427  words


Almost half of working-age adults in the U.S. had inadequate health insurance or
no coverage at all last year, a widening deficit that the Affordable Care Act
should mitigate, according to data from the Commonwealth Fund.


About 84 million were uninsured or underinsured, 3 million more than when the
2010 health law was signed and 20 million more than in 2003, the New York-based
nonprofit group, which advocates for better health care, said today in a report.
About 80 million adults who had medical conditions said they chose not to see a
doctor or fill a prescription because of the cost.
At least 85 percent of these people will become eligible for some type of
subsidized or government health insurance under the U.S. health law when the
core parts of it take effect in January, the Commonwealth Fund said. Younger
adults are benefiting from existing provisions as the proportion of people ages
19 to 25 who were uninsured at some point in the year fell to 41 percent from 48
percent in 2010.
"It will be critical to continue to monitor the effects of the law as the major
provisions go into effect in 2014 and beyond to ensure it achieves its goal of
near-universal, comprehensive health insurance," Sara Collins, the vice
president for affordable health insurance at the Commonwealth Fund, in a
statement.
Of the 84 million people cited by the group, about 55 million were uninsured
during 2012. About 30 million were underinsured, meaning they had coverage that
provided "inadequate protection from health-care costs," measured by the amount
spent out-of-pocket for care compared with their income, the group said.
State Exchanges
The U.S. health law is projected by the Congressional Budget Office to extend
health insurance to about 27 million people by 2021. The Commonwealth Fund calls
it "a fundamental transformation in their health insurance system."
The potential success of the health-care system overhaul relies heavily on a
series of state-run exchanges that are supposed to open in October. The
exchanges will serve as marketplaces for people who lack insurance at their jobs
and help them enroll in subsidized plans for 2014. Medicaid, the federal-state
health system for the poor, also will be expanded in many states to cover adults
earning wages near the poverty level, who are largely ineligible now unless they
have children.
A requirement already in effect that made insurers let families keep children in
their plans until age 26 led to a 1.9 million drop from 2010 in the number of
young adults without insurance, according to the report.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             260 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                         September 29, 1993, Wednesday

Beyond the abortion war

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 12

LENGTH: 477 words


President Clinton is right in his prediction that the inclusion of abortion
coverage in his administration's health plan will spark a bloody battle on the
floors of Congress.

But first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton is also correct in saying, "We're striking
the right balance." Under their plan to provide all Americans with comprehensive
health insurance, the Clintons have quietly included abortion coverage under
"pregnancy-related services." But they've done so with this caveat: Those
hospitals and physicians morally opposed to performing abortions don't have to
do them.

It's called a "conscience exemption," and it is an acceptable proviso if it
moves this country a step closer to providing national health insurance while
safeguarding a woman's right to abortion.

Already, however, the anti-abortion forces are girding for battle against the
proposal. And some abortion-rights supporters may oppose the exemption for
health-care workers who oppose abortion. "We're not going to make people on the
extremes of this issue happy," concedes Mrs. Clinton, who has spearheaded the
administration's health-care reform.

It would be unfortunate if the issue of abortion stymied the nation's first real
chance at comprehensive health-care reform.

Supporters of choice should be pleased that the administration's plan includes
abortion coverage as a standard benefit. That represents a significant change
from earlier hints emanating from the White House that it would leave the
decision of whether to include coverage up to individual plans.

But Tuesday's vote in the Senate upholding the 17-year-old Hyde amendment that
bans the use of federal funds for abortions marked a significant defeat for
abortion-rights supporters and could foreshadow a similar fate for the Clinton
plan. Already, Rep. Henry Hyde, the amendment's author and a key abortion foe,
is promising to fight against abortion coverage as a standard health-care
benefit.

Whether abortion opponents like it or not, the laws of the land protect a
woman's constitutional right to an abortion. However, no right should be
reserved for women of means while denied to those who can't afford it. The
Clinton plan would correct the inequity that now exists. At the same time, no
person should be forced to do something he or she is morally opposed to, and the
Clinton plan protects that right as well.  It is time this country moved beyond
the divisive battle over abortion. Signs suggest that time may soon be here.
Recent efforts to step up the availability in this country of RU-486, the
French-manufactured abortion pill, could soon make this very public debate moot.
Under the Clinton health plan, the prescription drug would no doubt be covered.

And when that occurs, the debate over abortion will return where it belongs: to
the private discussions between a woman and her physician.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH932730094

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                             261 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday

Mixed signs for health-insurance reform

BYLINE: By Matt Murphy, mmurphy@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 346 words


BOSTON -- Results have been mixed for state health officials pressing to sign up
the uninsured for health insurance before the end of the year.

Far more residents living at or near the poverty level have enrolled in
state-subsidized health-insurance plans than expected, potentially putting
significant pressure on the state budget to keep pace.

The number of people purchasing private insurance through the state or directly
through insurance companies, meanwhile, has been smaller than targeted.

The Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority is urging all residents
without health insurance to enroll by Nov. 15 in order to avoid a $219 surcharge
on their tax returns next year.

The state's landmark health-care reform law requires all Massachusetts residents
to have health insurance by Dec. 31. Penalties will increase in 2009.

Those who enroll by Nov. 15 could have their new plans active by Dec. 1.

Delaying enrollment could prevent health benefits from kicking in until after
the New Year, according to Richard Powers, spokesman for the Health Insurance
Connector Authority.

With little more than a month to go before the end of the year, anywhere from
150,000 to 300,000 people in Massachusetts are still without health insurance.

Where the state has had success is among those residents who qualify for
subsidized health plans.

More than 127,000 people, as of Oct. 1, had signed up for health insurance
through Commonwealth Care, the state's subsidized program for individuals
earning less than 300 percent of the federal poverty level.

Another 55,000 new residents have enrolled in MassHealth, the state's Medicaid
program.

The rate of enrollment in Commonwealth Care has outpaced projections, according
to Powers, who said the health connector authority estimated an enrollment of
136,000 by July 1, 2008.

The state Division of Health Care, Finance and Policy estimated there were
370,000 uninsured residents in Massachusetts at the time health-care reform was
passed in April 2006.

The U.S. Census Bureau, meanwhile, estimates that number to be between 500,000
and 600,000.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             262 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday

Minnesota House passes health exchange bill; moves to Senate on Thursday

BYLINE: By Christopher Snowbeck csnowbeck@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Legislature; News; Health

LENGTH: 882 words


DFL lawmakers in the state House pushed through a key provision of the federal
health care overhaul by voting Monday, March 4, to create a health insurance
exchange for Minnesota.

The 2010 federal law calls for the creation of state-level health exchanges
where individuals and small businesses can buy coverage beginning in October.

The marketplaces are meant to make it easier for consumers to comparison shop
for health insurance. Federal subsidies that will be available for many shopping
on the exchange should fulfill the federal law's goal of increasing the share of
Americans with health insurance, according to proponents.

"Health insurance is a most vexing and daunting task for consumers," said Rep.
Joe Atkins, DFL-Inver Grove Heights, who sponsored the health exchange bill in
the House. "Many of us think that there really is a need to create a health
insurance marketplace where we can have robust competition."

House Republicans opposed the bill, saying the health exchange would drive up
costs, limit consumer choice and threaten privacy.

"We are in need of reform here in terms of the insurance industry," argued Tara
Mack, a Republican from Apple Valley. "But this is the wrong direction -- this
is a vast government overreach."

The bill passed the DFL-controlled House on a 72-58 vote. One Republican voted
for it; one Democrat voted against it.

The Senate is scheduled to vote Thursday on its version of the bill, which
differs in how it funds the ongoing operations of the marketplace.

The Senate bill also would give the health exchange's board of directors more
power to limit health plan options -- an issue that proved divisive Monday among
House DFLers.

The federal health law requires almost everyone in the United States to have
health insurance coverage beginning in 2014 or pay a tax penalty. The health
exchange will be a key mechanism for people who now lack coverage to buy health
insurance.

Democratic-Farmer-Labor Gov. Mark Dayton has been planning for Minnesota's
health exchange for more than a year by tapping $110 million in federal grants.

The exchange will consist of a website and call center for consumers to learn
about health insurance options. Some 1.3 million Minnesotans, including many
covered through public health insurance programs, are expected to obtain
coverage through the exchange by 2016.

If Minnesota doesn't create a health insurance exchange, Atkins said, the state
would be forced to adopt a marketplace designed by the federal government.
Wisconsin, for example, is one of more than 20 states that will adopt a federal
model.

Keeping control in Minnesota means customer service would be provided closer to
home, Atkins said, adding that state officials believe Minnesota's marketplace
will be less costly.

The state expects to spend about $60 million per year to operate the exchange
once it is fully enrolled. In the bill passed by the House on Monday, those
costs would be covered by withholding up to 3.5 percent from the value of health
insurance premiums sold on the health exchange.

"This is the most significant health insurance reform in Minnesota in the past
50 years," Atkins said.

Republicans questioned whether the bill lacks privacy protections. They also
criticized conflict-of-interest standards that would limit the ability of
insurance company executives to serve on the exchange's board of directors.

"This is a socialist-style medical bureaucracy, and it will not work," said Rep.
Jim Newberger, a Republican from Becker.

Rep. Joe McDonald, R-Delano, said: "This bill actually makes me sick to my
stomach."

Even so, Atkins and Republicans found common ground on a few amendments. One
change offered by Republicans, for example, blocked the exchange from
disseminating a person's history of tobacco use or gun ownership to anyone
outside the marketplace.

Meanwhile, Atkins opposed an amendment sponsored by Rep. Patti Fritz,
DFL-Faribault, that would ban health plans on the exchange from covering
abortions. It passed 71-58, with support of 12 DFLers.

Democrats have a 73-61 majority in the House, and therefore had the votes to
push forward the legislation. But floor debate suggested tension within the
party on whether the health exchange board should have the power of an "active
purchaser."

As originally introduced, Atkins' bill would have let the health exchange board
exclude products from the marketplace that it deemed poor values for consumers.

Insurance companies objected, saying they could spend millions to prepare
products for the health exchange only to be shut out from the competition.

Last week, Atkins amended his bill so that insurance companies would be
guaranteed a chance to sell a minimum of two products before the board could use
its active purchaser powers. The move was intended to lure insurance companies
into the market, Atkins said, and make sure consumers would have plenty of
choices.

But Rep. Tina Liebling, DFL-Rochester, called for going back to the original
language as the bill likely moves to a conference committee between House and
Senate leaders.

"I believe that it's really removed from the bill one of its most important
features, and that is the power of the board to select plans," Liebling said.

Christopher Snowbeck can be reached at 651-228-5479. Follow him attwitter.com/
chrissnowbeck.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A sign reading House of Representatives from the Minnesota State
Capitol Building. details. (Pioneer Press: Ben Garvin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             263 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Day (New London, Connecticut)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday

New year means new health insurance laws for Connecticut

BYLINE: Judy Benson, The Day, New London, Conn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 693 words


Jan. 07--The beginning of 2012 ushered in seven new requirements for health
insurance coverage provided by employers to Connecticut residents that
proponents say will save lives and money in the long run.

"An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure," said state Sen. Joseph Crisco
Jr., D-Woodbridge, co-chairman of the state legislature's Insurance and Real
Estate Committee, referring to the new requirements for breast MRIs,
colonoscopies and prostate cancer screening and treatment.

The other new requirements pertain to coverage for ostomy supplies, pain
medications, clinical trial costs and bone marrow testing.

Opponents predict the new laws will have a negative effect, however, driving up
the costs to employers of providing health insurance and ultimately making the
state less business-friendly.

"The fact that we have seven new or expanded mandates is pretty daunting," said
Eric George, associate council of the Connecticut Business and Industry
Association, adding that he expects some employers will drop coverage. "Small
employers are already stretched as far as they can go."

About half of the state's employers will be affected by the new requirements,
George said. These are the companies that purchase coverage for their employees
through private insurers, versus companies that pay the coverage costs
themselves and contract with private insurers to administer the plans.

Before the new laws, George said, there were 60 state-mandated requirements for
employer health insurance plans. According to the Council for Affordable Health
Insurance, a national advocacy group for the insurance industry, these accounted
for 25 percent to half of the premium costs in Connecticut.

Crisco said he believes the CBIA's concerns are exaggerated, and that the new
requirements will actually save money and lives in the long run by detecting
cancers earlier and providing better health care for state residents.

He referred to the one that mandates coverage for breast MRIs for women with
dense breast tissue, or who are at increased breast cancer risk due to family
history or other factors.

MRIs can detect some cancers that routine ultrasound testing does not,
particularly in women with dense tissue. With earlier detection, more of these
cancers can be treated earlier and more successfully, he said.

State Rep. Betsy Ritter, D-Waterford, said she believes the new requirements
will have a positive effect on health care.

"They are a reflection of robust health care coverage, not punitive an any way,"
said Ritter, who is co-chairwoman of the legislature's Public Health Committee.
"These are simply the right thing to do."

According to a 2011 analysis by the University of Connecticut's Center for
Public Health and Health Policy, the breast MRI coverage will add 92 cents per
person per month to the cost of health insurance. At least four of the state's
largest insurers already cover the test, which can cost about $2,000.

The other new mandates were not included in the UConn analysis, but will be part
of an analysis that will be done this year, said Donna Tommelleo, spokeswoman
for the state Insurance Department.

Along with the breast MRI coverage, the other new requirements are:

--coverage for compatibility testing for bone marrow transplants for people who
sign up for the National Bone Marrow Donor Program.

vcoverage for patient care costs associated with clinical trials for those with
disabling or life threatening chronic diseases.

--additional coverage for more than one colonoscopy per year ordered by a
physician; and for equivalent pay for physician services for colonoscopies or
endoscopies regardless of whether they are performed in a hospital or private
office.

--coverage of up to $2,500 annually for ostomy supplies and appliances, up from
$1,000.

--elimination of insurers' policies that an insured person use generics or
over-the-counter pain medications first when a brand-name pain medication is
prescribed by a physician.

--coverage for screening and treatment for prostate cancer.

j.benson@theday.com

___ (c)2012 The Day (New London, Conn.) Visit The Day (New London, Conn.) at
www.theday.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120107-NL-New-year-means-new-health-insurance-laws
-for-Connecticut-0107-20120107

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NL


                             Copyright 2012 The Day


                             264 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     October 29, 1995, Sunday, ALL EDITIONS

'Loophole' allows illegals Medicaid care

BYLINE: Laura Williamson; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: STATE NEWS, Pg. 1G

LENGTH: 504 words


Every month, Georgia's public health clinics provide prenatal care for up to 300
illegal immigrants. The bills go to Medicaid.

The women are not covered by the joint state and federal health insurance
program for the poor. But Medicaid pays anyway.

State health officials said they are only bending, not breaking, the law by
sliding illegals through a loophole in federal rules that pays $ 300 to $ 500 in
doctor bills for any pregnant woman who applies.

"It's just a quirk in the law that allows us to take care of pregnant women,
even though we know they're illegal," said Dr. James C. Crutcher, district
health director for Gwinnett, Rockdale and Newton counties.

But federal Medicaid officials aren't so sure. Sally Richardson, director of the
Medicaid bureau for the U.S. Health Care Financing Administration, said the
money is not intended to serve illegal immigrants and that if Georgia is using
it for that purpose, her agency will look into it. "This is the first time I've
heard about it," she said.

The practice is the kind of thing that angers conservatives who charge that
immigrants - both legal and illegal - abuse the U.S. welfare system. Others say
that providing prenatal care to illegal immigrants is necessary to protect
children who will become citizens the moment they are born.

The immigrant debate has become part of the budget battle now raging in
Congress, and the state Department of Medical Assistance would have to stop the
practice under a welfare bill pushed by House Republicans.

The legislation would make it illegal for states to spend any public money -
including their own state funds - on most services for illegal immigrants. It
would severely restrict the number of legal immigrants eligible for public
health and welfare programs.

Georgia provides prenatal care for illegal immigrants through a program called
"presumptive eligibility," which presumes that every pregnant woman who applies
for benefits will be entitled to them. The program covers the cost of her care
during the time it takes to process her application, and coverage is available
to everyone, including citizens who might not otherwise qualify for Medicaid.

But for the illegal immigrants, social workers routinely resubmit the
application when it is denied because the woman is not a legal U.S. resident,
extending her eligibility another month. They do that until she delivers her
baby, public health officials said. The delivery cost is covered under a program
for which illegal immigrants are eligible.

Carolyn Ferrell, director of the office of policy and development for DMA,
defended the aid as a way to prevent low-birthweight babies, who often die or
have extensive medical problems.

"You can call it a loophole, but it really is beneficial to the family and it's
beneficial to the state," Ferrell said. "Essentially, what we're talking about
are unborns that will become American citizens. The state has a very real
interest in all citizens having the best start possible."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution


                             265 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            June 3, 1992, Wednesday

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF IRS agents to use aliases to avoid angry taxpayers

BYLINE: By Ernie Freda STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 5

LENGTH: 529 words


The tax collector is going undercover. Internal Revenue Service officers - the
most often assaulted of all federal law enforcement officials, with 267 assaults
last year and 391 in 1988 - soon will be able to use phony names for their
protection when dealing with tax scofflaws.

"We are unarmed," said one, Shirley Garcia, an IRS revenue officer in New
Carrollton, Md. "It's a very, very dangerous job." Her telephone book listing
and car registration are under relatives' names. The aliases won't prevent
attacks on the job, of course, but angry taxpayers have been known to file fake
liens on officers' property, place their names on junk-mail lists, make
threatening phone calls to their homes and file phony tax forms using their
names.

The pseudonym option was approved after an arbitration board settled the matter
following a seven-year dispute between the IRS and the National Treasury
Employees Union. But Philip Proffit, executive director of the National
Coalition of IRS Whistleblowers, a taxpayer advocacy organization, doesn't care
for the idea. "Now they're trying to escape accountability by hiding behind
a.k.a.'s," he said. The new policy will go into effect when a system is designed
to register the fake names with supervisors.

STOP THE BOMB! About 200 small-business owners met separately Tuesday with
President Bush and Democratic members of Congress in an appeal for health
insurance reform. Members of HEAL - the Health Care Equity Action League - are
opposed to national health insurance and urged Congress and the White House to
work for reforms within the existing system. Gerry Harkins, president of
Southern Pan Services in Atlanta, said his company and its 150 employees no
longer can cover the cost of health insurance premiums. "We don't know if we'll
get any federal help or not," Mr. Harkins said. "But, as a small-business man,
I'm just waiting for a bomb to go off. We just want President Bush and Congress
to quit being mad at each other and do something together."

KEMP CLARIFICATION: Housing Secretary Jack Kemp took issue Tuesday with a
magazine report, saying he was misrepresented regarding administration efforts
to win congressional approval of President Bush's urban agenda. The Newsweek
article quoted Mr. Kemp as saying, "Everything I say goes down a black hole."
Mr. Kemp said he has been using that comment consistently, but that it
"reflected my frustration with the inaction by . . . Congress, not the
president."

IRAN CONDEMNED: The House on Tuesday called on Iran to stop oppression of the
Baha'i community, Iran's largest religious minority, and condemned the summary
execution of a Baha'i leader.

The House passed a resolution calling on Iran to "emancipate" the Baha'i from
threats against their lives and property and restrictions on their professional
and religious activity.

It condemned the killing in March of Bahman Samandari, a Baha'i leader in
Tehran. Mr. Samandari was executed in Tehran's Evin Prison "without even the
pretense of formal charges or a trial," according to Firuz Kazemzadeh, a Yale
University professor and spokesman for the 110,000-strong Baha'i community in
the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                             266 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   Al Riyadh

                            February 19, 2017 Sunday

27 health insurance companies cover 12 million private sector employees

BYLINE: Riyadh

LENGTH: 369  words


Riyadh

There are 12,052,017 private sector employees in Saudi Arabia covered by medical
insurance, according to the latest statistics.

Health Insurance Council spokesman Yasser Al-Maarik said that the Council
supervises and monitors health insurance services rendered to more than 40% of
the Kingdom's inhabitants.

Al-Maarik further noted that as many as 27 qualified health insurers and nine
claim management companies provide healthcare services via more than 4,543
approved health service providers to all insured individuals. He confirmed that
the Council of Health Insurance often receives complaints from individuals,
particularly those in the private sector, against their employers for refusing
to provide them and their family members with health insurance.

He pointed out that the Council observes confidentiality in the complainants'
data to protect them from possible pressure. He stated that employers are
obliged to provide health insurance to all employees and their family members,
including children up to the age of 25.

Article 14 of the Cooperative Health Insurance makes it compulsory for employers
to pay health insurance premiums for every employee or face penalties up to the
value of the annual subscription per employee. He may also be permanently or
temporarily barred from recruiting employees.

He added that the Council spares no effort in ensuring the rights of all parties
in the insurance contractual relationship, especially the employers and the
insured policyholders and beneficiaries. It develops the required regulatory,
supervisory and control mechanisms, making constant improvements to the health
insurance market dynamics.

Al-Maarik said that the quality of the health insurance program may be further
upgraded by introducing initiatives and projects such as the Saudi Health
Insurance Bus (SHIB), Customer Relationship Management (CRM) System and
digitization of the Council's operations. These upgrades also include

regular reviewing and updating of the Health Insurance Law and the Standard
Insurance Policy, besides improving health insurance governance and increasing
the operational capacity of the health insurance sector.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/308/1048/44/148751333495.jpg



LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1048


                      Copyright 2017 Alyammamah Press Est
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             267 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

ABCs of Obamacare: a glossary for consumers

SECTION: WIRE; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 295 words


(AP) Major new laws come with their own jargon, and President Barack Obama's
health care overhaul is no exception.

Affordable Care Act - The most common formal name for the health care law. Its
full title is the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.

Employer mandate - A federal requirement that companies with 50 or more workers
pay a penalty to the government if one of their workers obtains taxpayer
subsidized coverage through the law. Delayed one year to Jan. 1, 2015.

Individual mandate - A federal requirement that virtually everyone in the United
States has health insurance, either through an employer, a government program or
by buying his or her own plan. Effective Jan. 1, 2014. Exceptions for financial
hardship and religious objections.

Essential health benefits - Basic health benefits that most health insurance
plans will have to cover starting in 2014.

Marketplaces - Online health insurance markets in each state where consumers can
get private health insurance, subsidized by the government.

Medicaid expansion - The health care law also expands the federal-state
safety-net program to cover more low-income people.

Metal levels -The four levels of coverage available through exchange plans,
called bronze, silver, gold, and platinum.

Pre-existing condition - An ongoing or past health problem.

Tax credits - Government health insurance subsidies for individuals will come in
the form of tax credits. The money will be paid directly to the consumer's
health plan, to help cover premiums.

Tax penalty - The fine levied on individuals who disregard the individual
insurance mandate. It starts small and gets bigger in subsequent years. In 2014
it's $95 or 1 percent of taxable income. By 2016, it's $695 or 2.5 percent of
taxable income, whichever is greater.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2013 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             268 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2010 by the Pennsylvania Bar Association
                            The Pennsylvania Lawyer

                               July/August, 2010

                            The Pennsylvania Lawyer

                           32 Pennsylvania Lawyer 36

LENGTH: 2026 words

ARTICLE: WHAT HEALTH CARE REFORM MEANS TO LAW PRACTICES

By Mark E. Battersby

Mark Battersby is a freelance writer based in Ardmore who specializes in tax and
financial topics. He is a frequent contributor to The Pennsylvania Lawyer.

TEXT:


 [*37]  The massive and controversial federal Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act of 2010 and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010
include more than $ 400 billion in so-called revenue-raisers and new taxes on
employers and individuals. The centerpiece is, of course, the well-publicized
mandate for most Americans to obtain health insurance.

Health care reform carries with it a number of new tax rules, such as new
penalties for individuals who choose to remain uninsured, tax credits and other
sweeteners for employers participating in new insurance pools, new penalties for
larger employers that don't provide insurance (or provide insurance deemed
inadequate or unaffordable), plus a voucher system for certain lower-income
employees who choose not to be covered by their employer's health plan.

Supporters of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act predict that an
estimated 3.6 million small business owners will qualify for tax credits for
health care beginning this year, receiving almost $ 40 billion in assistance
over the next decade. A large percentage of the 26 million small business
employees currently uninsured also will receive help.

What impact will this massive overhaul of health care have on your law practice?


The new law provides $ 40 billion in tax credits -- direct reductions of their
tax bills -- for small businesses, including small law practices, to help them
offer employee health insurance coverage if they choose to. According to our
lawmakers, more than 60 percent of small employers, or more than 4 million firms
and businesses, will be eligible for these credits.

The Internal Revenue Service has already begun encouraging small businesses to
explore and, if qualified, claim the new small employer health insurance credit.
The credit was created for eligible small businesses either to maintain their
current health insurance coverage or to begin offering health insurance coverage
to their employees.

Small law practices offering health insurance to employees as part of their
compensation and contributing at least half of the total premium cost now
qualify for this tax credit. The law practice must have no more than 25
full-time equivalent (FTE) employees and the employees must have annual FTE
wages that average no more than $ 50,000 in order for the small law practice to
qualify for tax credits of up to 35 percent.

Employers with fewer than 10 employees and average employee wages below $ 20,000
per year are eligible for the full health care employer health credit. The new,
temporary sliding-scale small employer health insurance credit is worth up to 35
percent of a small law practice's  [*38]  premium costs in 2010. On Jan. 1,
2014, this rate increases to 50 percent. Employee wage limits will be indexed to
the Consumer Price Index for Urban Consumers beginning in 2014.

Self-employed lawyers, including partners and sole practitioners, 2 percent
shareholders of an S corporation and 5 percent principals in a professional
practice are not treated as employees for purposes of the small employer health
insurance credit. In fact, a special rule prevents sole practitioners from
receiving the credit for themselves or their family members.

Self-employed lawyers and other professionals can, of course, deduct the cost of
health insurance for themselves and their spouses and dependents. Thus, if an S
corporation pays accident and health insurance premiums (under a plan
established by the S corporation) on behalf of a more-than-2-percent shareholder
who is also its employee and who must include the value of the premiums in his
or her gross income, the shareholder is permitted to deduct the cost of the
premiums paid on his or her behalf.

Penalty for Remaining Uninsured

Starting in 2014, the new law requires nearly all Americans to have health
insurance through an employer, a government program or direct purchase. That
year, new insurance markets will open for business, health plans will be
required to accept all applicants and tax credits will start flowing to millions
of people, helping them pay the premiums.

Those who continue to go without coverage will have to pay a penalty to the IRS,
except in cases of financial hardship. Fines vary by income and family size. For
example, a single person making $ 45,000 would pay an extra $ 1,125 in taxes
when the penalty is fully phased in, in 2016.

 [*39]  Employer Responsibilities

Prior to the passage of this reform, there was no federal requirement that
employers offer health insurance coverage to employees or their families. The
new law imposes penalties on some practices and businesses for not providing
coverage to their employees (so-called "pay or play").

The penalty for any month would be an excise tax equal to the number of
full-time employees over a 30-employee threshold during the applicable month
(regardless of how many employees are receiving a premium tax credit or
cost-sharing reduction) multiplied by one-twelfth of $ 2,000.

Fortunately, most law practices will not have to worry about this provision
because employers with fewer than 50 employees aren't subject to the pay or play
penalty. The new law exempts all small law practices or businesses with fewer
than 50 employees from the employer responsibility requirements that take effect
in 2014.

'Free Choice' Vouchers

After 2013, employers offering minimum essential coverage through an eligible
employer-sponsored plan and paying a portion of that coverage must provide
qualified employees with a voucher, the value of which could be applied to the
purchase of a health plan through a "health insurance exchange" (more about this
below). Qualified employees would be employees who do not participate in the
employer's health plan; whose required contribution for employer-sponsored
minimum essential coverage exceeds 8 percent, but does not exceed 9.5 percent of
household income; and whose total household income does not exceed 400 percent
of the poverty level for the family. The value of the voucher would be equal to
the dollar value of the employer contribution to the employer-offered health
plan.

Health Insurance Exchanges

Beginning in 2014, the new law creates state-based health insurance exchanges to
make health insurance both affordable and accessible for small businesses and
the self-employed. With the option of joining a large pool, small law practices
will have access to the same type of quality, affordable coverage that only
large firms currently have. Employees of small law practices and businesses will
be able to do one-stop comparison shopping for an affordable insurance plan that
offers lower rates, stable pricing from year to year and a choice of quality
plans.

Those who are employed by small law practices or businesses but who do not
receive insurance through their employers and are on the health insurance
exchange will have access to sliding-scale tax credits to help pay their
premiums. Effective in 2014, for those with access to the health insurance
exchange, sliding-scale tax credits are provided to individuals and families up
to 400 percent of the poverty level. This means that the tax credits phase out
completely for an individual with $ 43,320 in income and for a family of four
with $ 88,200 in income.

Additional Tax on High-Wage Earners

To help pay for making health insurance affordable for small businesses and the
middle class, the new law includes an increase in taxes for high earners.
Specifically, for tax years beginning after Dec. 31, 2012, the hospital
insurance or "HI" tax rate will be increased by 0.9 percent on anyone earning
over $ 200,000 ($ 250,000 for married couples filing jointly); these figures are
not indexed for inflation.

 [*40]  Also added to the withholding levy is "unearned" income.

Unearned Income Surtax

Beginning in 2013, a 3.8 percent surtax called an "Unearned Income Medicare
Contribution" will be placed on the net investment income of anyone earning over
$ 200,000 ($ 250,000 for a joint return). Net investment income includes
interest, dividends, royalties, rents, gross income from a trade or business
involving passive activities, and net gain from disposition of property (other
than property held in a trade or business). It should be noted that income
"actively" earned by anyone running a small, closely held practice or business
is exempt.

New Limit on Health Plan Contributions

The principals in many law practices, as well as their employees, have long
utilized health-care-related flexible spending accounts (FSAs), medical savings
accounts (MSAs) and health savings accounts (HSAs) to pay for medical expenses
with pretax dollars. An HSA goes along with a high-deductible insurance policy
and gives individuals a tax deduction for money saved that can be used for
health care expenses. A health care FSA has similar tax advantages, but
contributions to it are deducted from an employee's salary and money in the
account must be used by the end of the year.

The new law modifies the definition of qualified medical expenses for health
care FSAs and HSAs to conform them to the definition used for the medical
expense itemized deduction (excluding over-the-counter medicines unless
prescribed by a health care professional) beginning in 2011. The law also caps
health care FSA contributions at $ 2,500 per year after 2012, and the cap is
indexed annually for inflation after 2013.

 [*41]  There also are increases in the additional tax on non-qualified
distributions from HSAs, going from 10 percent to 20 percent, and on
non-qualified distributions from Archer MSAs, going from 15 percent to 20
percent.

New Reporting Responsibilities

For tax years beginning after Dec. 31, 2010, employers have to disclose the
value of the benefit provided by them for each employee's health insurance
coverage on the employee's annual W-2 form. Plus, while every practice and
business is already required to file an information return (Form 1099) for
payments made to individuals, a law practice paying any amount greater than $
600 during the year to corporate providers of property and services would have
to file an information report with each provider and with the IRS, effective for
payments made after Dec. 31, 2011.

Enforcement

It appears that the IRS will be hiring an additional 16,500 auditors to
administer compliance and assess fees/taxes/penalties.

The IRS will be responsible for overseeing a significant part of health care
reform, such as the administration of additional taxes on individuals and
employers, determinations of various exemptions from those taxes and oversight
of new information reporting requirements. Fortunately, many of the new
requirements have phased-in or delayed effective dates.

 [*42]  Simple Cafeteria Plans

Cafeteria plans allow employees to choose the benefits they want. To encourage
more employers to offer tax-free benefits to their employees, including those
related to health insurance coverage, the new law relaxes the cafeteria plan
rules. It does so by carving out a safe harbor from the nondiscrimination
requirements for cafeteria plans for qualified small employers.

For tax years beginning after 2010, a new employee benefit cafeteria plan to be
known as a Simple Cafeteria Plan is to be established. This plan will be subject
to eased participation restrictions so that small employers can provide tax-free
benefits to their employees, and it will include self-employed individuals as
qualified employees.

Summary

In 2014, law practices employing more than 50 workers will be required to
provide health coverage to employees and most people will be required to have
health insurance. The tax on high-cost or "Cadillac" policies will not go into
effect until 2018 and an increase in Medicare payroll taxes begins in 2013,
while the small employer health insurance credit available to small employers
for health-care-related expenses is effective in 2010.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicareProvidersReimbursementGeneral OverviewTax LawFederal
Income Tax ComputationDeductions for LossesPassive Activity Loss (IRC sec. 469)


                             269 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

US health insurance exchange to open in Oklahoma

LENGTH: 662  words


More than three years after President Obama's Affordable Care Act was signed
into law, Oklahomans without health insurance can finally start shopping for
coverage through an insurance exchange that has been bitterly opposed by the
state's highest elected officials.


The long-anticipated opening of the insurance marketplace will give Oklahomans
their first opportunity to explore the nation's health care overhaul legislation
that will create many changes in public and private health care coverage. Among
other things, the law requires all Americans to have health insurance, including
plans offered by employers and government programs such as Medicare or Medicaid,
or pay a penalty.
Oklahomans can begin enrolling in health insurance plans on Tuesday and
enrollment will continue for six months. Coverage begins Jan. 1 for those who
sign up by Dec. 15. Oklahoma is among 36 states where the federal government
will run the insurance marketplace in 2014.
Consumers can shop, compare and buy health insurance plans online via
healthcare.gov, through a call center, in person or by mail. Tax credits are
available for those with income between 100 percent and 400 percent of the
federal poverty limit.
Navigators who are trained to help consumers identify health plans they qualify
for and enroll will be available to help Oklahomans find insurance. In Oklahoma,
navigators will be Cardon Outreach in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Community Health
Centers, Inc., which has partners throughout the state, and Little Dixie
Community Action Agency, Inc., which serves southeastern Oklahoma.
The online site has links to every state market, including Oklahoma's.
Information released by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services last
week indicated that Oklahomans will pay less than the national average for
health insurance under the federal exchange, a position that was disputed by
state Insurance Commissioner John Doak, a staunch opponent of the law who
maintains health insurance rates will "skyrocket" when it is implemented.
"The HHS report is extremely misleading," Doak said. "No matter how you try to
dress it up, this federal law is unfair, unworkable and unaffordable."
The exchange will offer an average of 53 health plans from five different
companies.
Individuals will be able to choose between four levels of coverage for each
health plan - bronze, silver, gold and platinum. Bronze plans cost less, but
individuals will have more out-of-pocket costs when they seek care. Platinum
plans cost more, but individuals will pay less when they seek health care. There
are also catastrophic plans for young adults and those without affordable
options.

To enroll in a health care plan through the federal insurance marketplace,
individuals will have to provide basic information about themselves and their
income and learn about their eligibility for tax credits. They can then shop for
a health plan and enroll. Tax credits and premium payments will be made directly
to the insurance company.
Gov. Mary Fallin, an opponent of the health care law who voted against it as a
member of Congress from the 5th District, had planned to accept a $54 million
federal grant in 2011 to create a state-operated health insurance exchange.
Under pressure from Republican legislative leaders, she later rejected a
state-based insurance exchange under the health care law.
Fallin also turned down an expansion of Medicaid to provide coverage to
low-income, uninsured citizens. There are about 600,000 uninsured Oklahomans and
about 200,000 would have benefited from the expansion, state officials have
said.
Fallin's communications director, Alex Weintz, said that in spite of her
opposition to the law, the governor believes Oklahomans should be given accurate
information about its provisions and decide for themselves what to do.
"We are trying to help provide our constituents with the things they need to
decide whether they want to participate in the exchange," Weintz said.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             270 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday

Court can't rule on health care reform, says 4th Circuit

BYLINE: Pat Murphy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 280  words


A federal court lacked jurisdiction to decide that the recently enacted federal
health care reform law was constitutional, the 4th Circuit has ruled in vacating
judgment and ordering a dismissal.

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, enacted in 2010, amends the
Internal Revenue Code by adding a so-called "individual mandate" that imposes a
tax penalty on those who fail to maintain a minimum level of health insurance
beginning in 2014.

Liberty University sued the federal government, arguing that the individual
mandate exceeded the powers reserved to Congress under the Commerce Clause.

A federal court in Virginia upheld the individual mandate, as well as a
provision of the Act which provides for certain federal tax assessments against
"large employers" that fail to maintain a minimum level of health insurance
coverage for their employees. (See "Federal health insurance mandates are
constitutional," Lawyers USA, Dec. 6, 2010.)

But the 4th Circuit concluded that the district court was stripped of
jurisdiction by the Anti-Injunction Act, which prohibits pre-enforcement actions
that seek to restrain the assessment of a tax.

The court explained that the Anti-Injunction Act "forbids actions that seek to
restrain the Secretary [of the Treasury] from exercising his statutory authority
to assess exactions imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. The exaction imposed
for failure to comply with the individual mandate constitutes a 'tax[]' as
defined in the Code's assessment provisions. For these reasons, the
[Anti-Injunction Act] bars this action. "

U.S. Court of Appeals, 4th Circuit. Liberty University v. Geithner, No. 10-2347.
Sept. 8, 2011. Lawyers USA No. 993-3202.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             271 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                              May 9, 1994, Monday

Let's not give up yet on tricky health-care debate

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 10

LENGTH: 435 words


AS IF "HARRY AND LOUISE" didn't confuse folks enough on health-care reform, now
comes a barrage of TV ads to tout the single-payer plan, the government-run
Canadian model. Single-payer, despite the new ads, isn't going to fly. But what
will?

Five congressional committees are working on health care. What emerges may look
more like the Cooper-Breaux reform than the Clinton plan. We hope so.

We believe any plan approved should included these features:

Health insurance should be portable so people keep it when they lose or change
jobs. That requires some "safety net" insurance pool (referred to as
cooperatives or alliances).

Insurance companies shouldn't be allowed to refuse people with chronic illness
or pre-existing conditions.

Everybody who works should be able to get health insurance. That means requiring
all employers to offer insurance plans, but not mandating 50 to 80 percent
employer funding of premiums.

Small businesses need access to the same low rates large businesses get, through
cooperative purchasing pools. We think those will work best if they're
community-based, not government-run.

Poor people need help getting insurance. If they're below the poverty line,
their premiums should be subsidized. The Cooper-Breaux plan ensures that
families with children get help if they earn up to $ 28,000. We think that's
right.

Any plan must include preventive services, such as immunizations and mammograms.
Both the Cooper and the Clinton plans do.

Whether you agree with us on these reforms may depend on whether you want
universal coverage forced overnight - like the president - or whether you think
we should provide universal access, making sure everybody can have insurance if
they want it.

In all of this, what's to keep costs down? As Rep. Jim Cooper (D- Tenn.) points
out, market competition really hasn't been given a chance, because folks now
have to choose between apples and oranges. With "managed competition," all
providers will have to furnish the same basic benefit package and play by the
same rules.

The Congressional Budget Office said this week the Cooper plan, which meets all
of our prerequisites, will cover 91 percent of all Americans in its first year
and will cut the deficit by some $ 86 billion over the next decade. The Clinton
plan, which contains more government regulation, will cover 95 percent, the CBO
says, and will increase the deficit over the same period by $ 136 billion.

Our advice is this: Avoid the "universal coverage" buzzword; look at what needs
changing about our health-care system and how we can do it without going broke.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941310144

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                             272 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                  June 2, 2008

Florida passes bill to boost private health coverage for uninsured

BYLINE: By Doug Trapp, AMNews staff. Jun. 2, 2008

SECTION: GOVERNMENT; Pg. 7 Vol. 51 No. 21

LENGTH: 882 words



HIGHLIGHT: The state hopes to foster development of new, affordable options for
uninsured individuals and small-business employees.


  Florida lawmakers early last month adopted a bill that aims to increase access
to affordable health coverage by allowing insurers to offer plans not subject to
state benefit mandates.

Under the legislation, private health insurers would contract with the state
through a new program called Cover Florida to offer coverage options to anyone
who has been uninsured for at least six months. Eligibility would be faster for
people who have lost their jobs. The bill would require the state to approve at
least one statewide plan.

In addition, the measure would allow insurers and other companies to offer more
flexible insurance options and other products geared toward businesses with 50
or fewer employees through a new initiative called Health Choices. These
products also would be exempt from insurance mandates. About 3.8 million
Floridians lack health coverage.

The Florida Medical Assn. supports the legislation, which Gov. Charlie Crist is
expected to sign. "If this is done right, you'll vastly increase the number of
insured patients and give them things like catastrophic care they need and
perhaps preventive services they want," said David McKalip, MD, an FMA board
member and chair of its council on medical economics.

The Florida Assn. of Health Plans' 21 members are excited about the new
flexibility the bill would provide by exempting the new plans from the state's
health benefit mandates, said Jim Bracher, the association's executive vice
president. "The idea that you could develop a plan that would be more tailored
to the kinds of things that your potential customers would want, we believe is a
big plus."

Florida has about 50 health coverage mandates, which take two forms:
requirements for specific benefits, such as well-child care, and for services by
certain health care professionals, Bracher said.

Still, the legislation would require that insurers participating in Cover
Florida offer two types of plans: one with catastrophic and hospital insurance,
and one without.

The bill, expected to be implemented in 2009, emphasizes flexibility over
government control. A new entity, the Florida Health Choices Corp., would
oversee the program for small businesses. The 15-member body would develop
standards for insurers and other companies to meet, and review the new offerings
they develop. One product possibility is prepaid cards for health clinics, said
Rep. Aaron Bean, chair of the House Healthcare Council, which oversees health
care legislation.

"This is really bringing free market principles to health care," Bean said.
"We're going to see when government gets out of the way what the free market can
do."

Under the legislation, all plans would be offered to people no matter their
medical history, a requirement known as "guaranteed issue." However, the bill
would not prohibit the exclusion of coverage of new enrollees' preexisting
conditions for a certain period after enrollment, said Bracher.

Crist and other state leaders have said Cover Florida could result in premiums
as low as $150 a month for health plans with an array of basic, preventive care.
Bracher said requiring the plans to be guaranteed issue will make that goal more
difficult to reach.

The bill is expected to initially cost only $1.5 million, with all of that for
starting the Health Choices Corp. and its Web site, where consumers would be
able to access information about the new plans and products. The state would not
subsidize any of the new health plans or products nor require employers to offer
health benefits. Instead, the bill calls for tax credits for employers who
participate in the Health Choices program.

The legislation represents a compromise between House leaders on one side and
Crist and the Senate on the other. The Senate and Crist favored Cover Florida
only, but the House wanted to adopt both Cover Florida and Health Choices. "[At
first] they didn't understand the Health Choices plan," Bean said. But two days
before the legislative session ended, the two camps reached an agreement.

Florida acts to cover uninsured

The Florida Legislature recently adopted a bill with two systems to offer
affordable private health plans and other products to the state's approximately
3.8 million uninsured people. The bill would:

     ·     Create Cover Florida, a marketplace for a variety of basic,
          unsubsidized, guaranteed-issue, portable health plans for adults who
          have been uninsured for at least six months and are not eligible for
          public programs.
     ·     Exempt plans in Cover Florida from most state benefit mandates.
          However, the plans would have to cover at least office visits,
          prescription drugs, surgery, preventive care and durable medical
          equipment.
     ·     Require insurers in Cover Florida to offer at least two types of
          plans, one with catastrophic and hospital coverage, and one without.
     ·     Establish the Florida Health Choices Program, a way for businesses
          with 50 or fewer employees to give workers new options for using
          tax-exempt dollars on health plans, prepaid services, flexible
          spending accounts and other products. Employers are not required to
          financially contribute or even to participate, but the bill would
          allow businesses who do participate to receive tax incentives to be
          specified later.
     ·     Create the Florida Health Choices Corp. to oversee the introduction
          of these new products.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                             273 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 19, 2016 Friday

Bill status of An Act relative to the treatment of infantile cataracts

LENGTH: 660  words

DATELINE: New York



 Boston: General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has issue the
following bill status:



 Sponsors:



 Louis L. Kafka

 Status:



 SECTION 1. Chapter 32A of the General Laws, as appearing in the 2006 Official
Edition, is hereby amended by adding the following section:





 Section 17J. Notwithstanding any general or special law or rule or regulation
to the contrary, a health insurance policy that covers infantile cataract
surgery must provide coverage for aphakic lenses for treatment and
rehabilitation.  The coverage must include benefits for prosthetic contact
lenses or glasses, as required as medically necessary by the physician.



 SECTION 2.  Chapter 118E, is hereby amended by adding the following section:



 Section 61. Notwithstanding any general or special law or rule or regulation to
the contrary, a health insurance policy that covers infantile cataract surgery
must provide coverage for aphakic lenses for treatment and rehabilitation. The
coverage must include benefits for prosthetic contact lenses or glasses, as
required as medically necessary by the physician.



 SECTION 3.  Section 108 of Chapter 175 is hereby amended by adding the
following section:



 Section K. Notwithstanding any general or special law or rule or regulation to
the contrary, a health insurance policy that covers infantile cataract surgery
must provide coverage for aphakic lenses for treatment and rehabilitation. The
coverage must include benefits for prosthetic contact lenses or glasses, as
required as medically necessary by the physician.



 SECTION 4.  Section 110 of Chapter 175 is hereby amended by adding the
following section:



 Section N. Notwithstanding any general or special law or rule or regulation to
the contrary, a health insurance policy that covers infantile cataract surgery
must provide coverage for aphakic lenses for treatment and rehabilitation. The
coverage must include benefits for prosthetic contact lenses or glasses, as
required as medically necessary by the physician.



 SECTION 5.  Chapter 176A of the General Laws is hereby amended by adding the
following section:



 Section 8CC. Notwithstanding any general or special law or rule or regulation
to the contrary, a health insurance policy that covers infantile cataract
surgery must provide coverage for aphakic lenses for treatment and
rehabilitation. The coverage must include benefits for prosthetic contact lenses
or glasses, as required as medically necessary by the physician.



 SECTION 6.  Chapter 176B of the General Laws is hereby amended by adding the
following section:



 Section 4CC. Notwithstanding any general or special law or rule or regulation
to the contrary, a health insurance policy that covers infantile cataract
surgery must provide coverage for aphakic lenses for treatment and
rehabilitation. The coverage must include benefits for prosthetic contact lenses
or glasses, as required as medically necessary by the physician.



 SECTION 7.  Chapter 176G of the General Laws is hereby amended by adding the
following section:



 Section 4U. Notwithstanding any general or special law or rule or regulation to
the contrary, a health insurance policy that covers infantile cataract surgery
must provide coverage for aphakic lenses for treatment and rehabilitation. The
coverage must include benefits for prosthetic contact lenses or glasses, as
required as medically necessary by the physician.



 SECTION 8.  Chapter 176I of the General Laws is hereby amended by adding the
following section:



 Section 12. Notwithstanding any general or special law or rule or regulation to
the contrary, a health insurance policy that covers infantile cataract surgery
must provide coverage for aphakic lenses for treatment and rehabilitation. The
coverage must include benefits for prosthetic contact lenses or glasses, as
required as medically necessary by the physician.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             274 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Dubai makes health cover compulsory

BYLINE: Mahmood Saberi Senior Reporter

LENGTH: 320 words


Dubai A new law has made health insurance coverage compulsory for every resident
in Dubai starting next year.

Presently only a million residents are covered out of the more than three
million residents in Dubai.

Officials from the Dubai Health Authority (DHA) said many blue-collar workers
are not covered and this new law will ensure that everyone has access to
essential health services.

"The law is fundamental to ensure sooth delivery of basic health insurance to
everyone living in the emirate, which means over three million people, which
includes nationals (emiratis) and residents with Dubai visas," said Eisa Al
Maidoor, director general of the DHA.

He unveiled the law yesterday to the media. The Health Insurance Law was
approved by His Highness Shaikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, UAE Vice
President and Ruler of Dubai.

Officials said the insurance scheme will start to roll out next year and will be
completed by 2016. Many blue collar workers and many spouses of expatriates
presently do not health cover. When it goes into force, the new law will ensure
that no work or residence visa  would be renewed without a health insurance
cover.

An expatriate will pay for the coverage of his spouse  and  children. But
Haidar Al Yousuf, director of health funding at the DHA, said the Authority is
working with insurance companies for inexpensive basic coverage plans. The basic
package would cost Dh 600 for a year, he said.

Al Maidoor said the health facilities are prepared for the large number of
people that are expected at the hospitals and clinincs. He said 1500 more beds
will soon be avaialble at the health facilties in the emirate.

Presently, only Abu Dhabi is the only emirate which has made health insurance
manadatory. Earlier this year, Sharjah made health coverage compluslory for all
its governmet employees, both emiratis and expatriates.

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© Al Nisr Publishing LLC 2013.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2013 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             275 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                               September 25, 2009

Bill would end antitrust exemption for med-mal insurers

BYLINE: Kimberly Atkins

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 218  words


Calling the move necessary to stem rising health care costs, Senate Judiciary
Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy filed a bill that would end the antitrust
exemption for health insurance and medical malpractice insurance companies.

As lawmakers continue to debate health care reform legislation, Leahy, D-Vt.,
introduced the Health Insurance Industry Antitrust Enforcement Act, H.R. 3596,
to repeal the antitrust exemption that was established in the 1945
McCarran-Ferguson Act.

According to Leahy's office, the bill would repeal the federal antitrust
exemption for health insurance and medical malpractice insurance companies that
flagrantly violate antitrust laws. Such violations would include price-fixing,
bid rigging and market allocations.

The bill would also subject health insurers and medical malpractice insurers to
the good-competition laws that apply to other businesses.

"The lack of affordable health insurance plagues families throughout our
country, and the rising prices that hospitals and doctors pay for medical
malpractice insurance drains resources that could otherwise be used to improve
patient care," Leahy said in introducing the bill. "Antitrust oversight in these
industries will provide consumers with the confidence that insurance companies
are operating in a competitive marketplace. "

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Government activity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             276 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     April 27, 2000, Thursday, Home Edition

Clinton, GOP battle on Medicare drug plan

BYLINE: Bob Deans, Cox Washington Bureau

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: News; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: Washington

President Clinton and his Republican foes drew sharp battle lines Wednesday over
competing election-year plans for adding prescription drug benefits to Medicare,
the federal health insurance program for senior citizens.

Clinton said he was "encouraged" that Republicans have proposed such benefits,
and he insisted that they and congressional Democrats should be able to work out
compromise legislation this year.

But the president blasted the GOP proposal as too limited, calling it a "
phantom" plan that could not be paid for under the huge tax cut that
congressional Republicans endorsed two weeks ago in their $ 1.83 trillion budget
resolution.

"It would leave nothing left for a prescription drug benefit," Clinton said at a
White House event to spotlight the issue. "Any prescription drug plan that is
not adequately financed is not available in fact, is not affordable to all, and
therefore is not a real plan at all."

The Republican plan calls for $ 40 billion over five years to help pay for
prescription drugs for low-income Medicare recipients. It calls for subsidies
for other Medicare recipients who opt for privately run prescription drug
insurance coverage.

The approach is expected to be woven into a broader approach to Medicare reform
to be taken up by the Senate Finance Committee as early as May.

The problem of rising prescription drug prices was highlighted Wednesday by the
release of a report showing that prices for the 50 prescription drugs most
widely used by seniors have risen, on average, twice as fast as the inflation
rate over the past six years.

Of those, 11 drugs rose four times faster than inflation, according to research
compiled by Families USA, which advocates universal health coverage for all
Americans.

Democrats are finishing up their own proposal for a plan to spend $ 195 billion
over 10 years, providing a prescription drug benefit to any Medicare recipient
who wants the coverage.

By covering millions of Medicare beneficiaries, the White House claims, the plan
would let recipients take advantage of the same sort of volume discounts that
drugstores give participants in large private insurance plans.

Republicans criticize that approach as too big and unneeded. The GOP plan
provides help to those who most need it, the nation's poor, said Rep. J.C. Watts
(R-Okla.).


> ON THE WEB: AARP research: research.aarp.org/health/ib39.html

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                             277 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                             July 10, 2014 Thursday

HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUMS;
Refunds for state retirees in flux

BYLINE: Doug Finke State Capitol Bureau

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 517 words


Nearly $23 million of retiree health insurance premium money is sitting in a
special state account, and it continues to grow.

When it might be returned to retirees in the wake of last week's Illinois
Supreme Court decision is anyone's guess.

"Patience is what I would advise," said Springfield attorney Don Craven, who
filed one of the lawsuits challenging the insurance premium law.

Last week, the Supreme Court ruled that state-subsidized health insurance for
retirees is covered by the pension protection clause of the state constitution,
which says pension benefits cannot be diminished or impaired. It reversed a
lower court decision dismissing several lawsuits that challenged a 2012 law
imposing premiums on retiree health insurance. Prior to the law, people who
retired with 20 or more years of service were entitled to premium-free state
health insurance.

The Supreme Court sent the case back to Sangamon County Circuit Court for
further proceedings.

"Matters are somewhat in flux," said Springfield attorney John Myers, who worked
with Craven on the lawsuit. "The plaintiffs' attorneys are huddling, and I'm
sure the state's attorneys are huddling, as to what happens next. The decision
last week is a huge win, and all parties concerned have to figure out how to
implement it."

Since the law went into effect in July 2013, retirees have been paying premiums
on the health insurance. Those also covered by Medicare started paying 1 percent
of their retirement annuities for the insurance, while those not covered by
Medicare paid 2 percent.

Craven and other lawyers got the courts to agree that the money should be held
in an escrow account until the court challenges were resolved to ensure it would
be available for refund if the law was overturned. As of Wednesday, the state
comptroller's office showed nearly $23 million being held in the account.

For now, though, retirees are still paying into the fund, despite the Supreme
Court ruling. In fact, on July 1, the amount they pay doubled.

Nothing is going to change immediately. The Supreme Court won't formally send
the case back to Sangamon County until Aug. 7. Until then, there will be no
further action on the case, Craven said.

"The circuit court has to resolve this case in some final fashion, which we
would ask to be an injunction against any further (premiums) and reimbursement
of the escrow account," Craven said. "It will take an order of the court for
that money to be reimbursed. The escrow was established by order of the court
and can only be terminated by order of the court."

The court will also be the place to decide on how the money will be returned to
the retirees. For now, state officials said they are not working on plans to
reimburse the premium money.

"It's a little soon to be talking about reimbursements," said Abdon Pallasch,
assistant director in Gov. Pat Quinn's budget office. "There's no plans being
drawn up for reimbursement yet. We're not getting ahead of ourselves. The case
is remanded to the lower court and it proceeds."

Contact Doug Finke: doug.finke@sj-r.com; 788-1527, twitter.com/dougfinkesjr.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             278 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                   The Original Irregular (Kingfield, Maine)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                February 1, 2012

Health insurance reform law showing signs of promise

BYLINE: The Original Irregular staff

LENGTH: 742  words


Last session, the new legislative majority took bold steps to put Maine on a new
path toward prosperity and opportunity. The primary focus was on creating more
jobs and economic activity. Despite unprecedented economic difficulties and a
$900 million budget shortfall, we were able to apply common sense solutions to
Maine's short-term problems, while adopting significant reforms that will help
create a better future for all of us. Our efforts to transform state government
included: regulatory fairness and reform; pension reform; welfare reform; paying
outstanding debts (hospitals); elimination of fraud and waste (Maine Turnpike
Authority); and a $ 150 million tax cut (the largest in Maine history) targeted
toward job creation. To lower health insurance premiums for individuals,
families, and businesses, we also enacted Public Law 90.

Public Law 90 --PL 90-- is a market-based solution designed to ensure that
everyone has access to health insurance that is more accessible and affordable.
It seeks to fix a dysfunctional private insurance market that makes insurance
unaffordable, hinders job creation, and leaves more than 130,000 Mainers without
health insurance. Even though the new law has not been fully implemented, the
Maine Bureau of Insurance is providing policy makers with initial data and
analysis on PL 90's impact on health insurance rates. The results are very
encouraging, with some consumers seeing rate decreases for the first time in
recent memory. In the limited instances where rates went up, the information
that has been complied will guide our efforts to further improve the law this
session.

The analysis provided by the Bureau of Insurance comes from one of two
independent actuarial studies conducted by Gorman Actuarial, LLC to assess both
the impact of the federal Affordable Care Act, and PL 90 on Maine's health
insurance markets. The Gorman report on PL 90 contains several positive
findings, including:

* The individual market reinsurance program created by PL 90 may reduce
individual market premiums 12 to 15 percent.

* In PL 90's first year of operation, approximately 80 percent of the individual
market will experience lower premiums than they would have had in the absence of
PL 90.

* PL 90 reduces premiums by more than 20 percent for 30 percent of the market.
Without the [provisions in PL 90], about two-thirds of the market would receive
higher premiums.* PL 90 accelerates growth in the individual market. Enrollment
may grow 6 to 10 percent before 2014 because of lower premiums. Moreover, since
these market entrants most likely will be younger and healthier, they could
reduce premiums across the board by 3 to 5 percent.

The report also contains good news in the small group market for companies with
fewer than 50 employees. It estimates that in the first year alone, 84 percent
of the members in this insurance market should benefit. The fact that for the
first time there have been some premium decreases and smaller increases is even
more notable when you consider what has been occurring nationally in the health
insurance market. A recent Kaiser Family

Foundation study showed that nationally, health insurance costs increased
dramatically in 2011 compared to previous years.

We still need to find ways to lower rising health care costs, because they
ultimately drive up the cost of health insurance. Another variable is whether or
not the federal ACA is ultimately implemented; repealed by the next congress; or
struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court next spring. We designed PL 90 to comply
with the ACA if it goes into effect, or remain in place if the federal law is
reversed. Either way, the Gorman study predicts that the number of uninsured
will decrease significantly.

The legislature will be carefully reviewing the findings of both of these
independent reports and other analysis from health insurance experts. The
promising developments we are seeing at this early stage give us confidence that
our health insurance reforms will benefit individuals, families, and businesses
when fully implemented in 2014. We will continue to pursue common sense
solutions to the problems that have plagued state government for years.
Transforming state government in the midst of these severe economic times is
difficult, but Maine's future depends on all of us working together.

Senator Rodney Whittemore chairs the Insurance and Financial Service Committee.
Whittemore represents Maine Senate District 26.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Local Government

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ORI

                      Copyright 2012 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                     Copyright 2012 The Original Irregular


                             279 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

FOUR WORDS COULD UPEND OBAMACARE

BYLINE: KATIE SANDERS, Times Staff Writer

SECTION: NATIONAL; POLITIFACT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 841 words



HIGHLIGHT: Much is on the line in the pending Supreme Court ruling.


After years of political fighting and legal maneuvering, President Barack
Obama's signature health care law could collapse over the interpretation of four
simple words, "established by the state."

The clause, tucked into the 906-page law, is at the center of a Supreme Court
case seeking to derail federal tax subsidies in 34 states, including Florida,
that opted not to create a health insurance marketplace.

Without those subsidies, much of the infrastructure of the Affordable Care Act
could be in jeopardy. A decision is expected this month.

So why are the words "established by the state" so critical? And what is at
stake?

Our PolitiFact Sheet on the case, King vs. Burwell, explains.

- - -

The top line

Health insurance subsidies for millions of Americans hang in the balance.

The 2010 Affordable Care Act requires most Americans to have health insurance as
a way to drive down health care costs.

The law envisioned making health insurance more affordable by, in part, allowing
consumers to shop for plans in an online marketplace, allowing them to compare
rates for plans offered by several private companies in one place. Sixteen
states decided to set up their own health insurance marketplaces. The majority
did not, and by default, were placed into a federally run marketplace,
Healthcare.gov.

Not everyone who received a plan from the marketplace (or sometimes called
exchange) has to pay the full cost of their health insurance. Roughly 6.4
million on the federal exchange in 34 states qualified for subsidies based on
their income from the government to offset the cost.

Those subsidies are being challenged as illegal based on the wording of the
Affordable Care Act.

Under one model by the Rand Corporation, about 8 million people could end up
losing health insurance if the court agrees that the subsidies are illegal, even
more than the number of people who currently receive federal subsidies.

- - -

The details

The latest legal controversy comes down to one phrase in the law.

The argument pursued by plaintiffs in King vs. Burwell is simple: It is illegal
for the government to award subsidies to people who bought plans through federal
exchanges - because the law doesn't allow it.

The law states that the subsidies can be awarded in marketplaces "established by
the state."

Supporters of the Affordable Care Act say no one intended for subsidies to be
limited to the state exchanges. Obama said this should be "an easy case" for the
Supreme Court, and the federal government has argued that the rules developed
for marketplace subsidies should clearly apply to residents whose states chose
for the federal government to operate their exchange. In that way, the
Department of Health and Human Services acts as a stand-in for the state.

But the petitioners in King vs. Burwell - Virginia residents led by David King -
disagree. (Burwell refers to Sylvia Burwell, the current secretary of Health and
Human Services.)

As part of the health care law, people who would have to spend more than 8
percent of their income on health insurance are exempt. That exemption would
cover King, if not for the tax subsidies provided in the federal marketplace
that make him eligible.

- - -

The effect on you

If the Supreme Court decides the subsidies for plans purchased through the
federal exchanges are illegal, the financial consequences could extend beyond
the buyers who receive subsidies.

Rand health economist Christine Eibner says two more groups would see increased
costs: federal exchange planholders who do not receive subsidies and people who
purchase ACA-compliant, private insurance through the individual market.

These groups share a single risk pool that balances costs for people of various
ages and health conditions. The pool benefits from younger, healthier recipients
that help to lower prices, many of whom receive subsidies, like the rest of
Healthcare.gov buyers. But the younger users may decide health insurance is not
worth it for them without the subsidies and leave the pool.

"If you're in a state with its own exchange, you're likely protected either
way," Eibner said.

- - -

The big picture

The individual mandate could lose its teeth.

This decision could reduce the power of the individual mandate, the health care
law's centerpiece that requires most people to carry health insurance and
survived a court challenge of its own in 2012, in the states using the federal
exchange.

The collapse of the federal subsidy structure could increase premiums
nationwide. That, in turn, would send insurance costs beyond the 8 percent
income threshold and exempt millions more from having to purchase insurance.

The decision could also weaken the employer mandate, which hits businesses with
a tax penalty when employees receive subsidies for coverage on a government-run
exchange.

The employer mandate only comes into place for workers who receive subsidies
through the exchanges. "So if there is no ability to receive a credit, the
(employer) mandate can't be triggered," Eibner said.

Contact Katie Sanders at ksanders@tampabay.com Follow @katielsanders.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO - New York Times: Demonstrators gathered outside the Supreme
Court, which heard a challenge to the Affordable Care Act in March.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             280 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Virgin Islands Daily News, St. Thomas

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday

Government workers' new group health insurance plan now law

BYLINE: Aldeth Lewin, The Virgin Islands Daily News, St. Thomas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 417 words


Oct. 01--ST. THOMAS -- Gov. John deJongh Jr. signed the government's group
health insurance plan into law Friday, ensuring that government employees are
covered when the new fiscal year begins today.

The plan will keep benefits and costs about the same for government workers
during the next few years, with a slight decrease in premiums.

The plan signed Friday is a five-year contract with three insurance carriers to
supply coverage for medical, prescription, dental, vision, life and disability.

The Connecticut General Life Insurance Company -- CIGNA -- will be the
government's medical, prescription and dental insurance carrier. Aetna will be
the carrier for life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance,
and Standard Insurance will provide vision benefits under the territory's plan.

The total cost of the plan is expected to be about $122.1 million in Fiscal Year
2012, which is about .5 percent less than the $122.7 million anticipated for FY
2011.

The plan covers thousands of V.I. government employees and retirees and their
families, as well as employees and retirees of the University of the Virgin
Islands, the V.I. Port Authority, the Frederiksted Health Center and St. Thomas
East End Medical Center.

In the Virgin Islands, employees and retirees pay 35 percent of the premium
costs, and the government pays 65 percent.

Under the new plan, the biweekly employee medical and dental premiums will be
slightly lower:

- Single employee coverage will decrease from $94.63 to $94.11.

- Family coverage will decrease from $166.90 to $165.89.

- Coverage for single retirees younger than 65 will decrease from $94.63 to
$94.11.

- Family coverage for retirees younger than 65 will decrease from $169.91 to
$168.88.

- Coverage for single retirees older than 65 will decrease from $41.80 to
$41.41.

- Family coverage for retirees older than 65 will decrease from $70.24 to
$69.52.

As part of the government's agreement with CIGNA, Health Improvement Centers for
government employees and retirees will be established in each district. CIGNA
also will endow two four-year scholarships to the University of the Virgin
Islands Nursing School for students who will commit to work in the territory for
four years following graduation.

- Contact reporter Aldeth Lewin at 774-7882 ext. 311 or email
alewin@dailynews.vi

___ (c)2011 The Virgin Islands Daily News (St. Thomas, VIR) Visit The Virgin
Islands Daily News (St. Thomas, VIR) at www.virginislandsdailynews.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111001-1VI-Government-workers-new-group-health-insurance-plan-now-law
-1001-20111001

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1VI


                  Copyright 2011 The Virgin Islands Daily News


                             281 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 24, 2011 Monday

Law limits insurance company spending

BYLINE: Jim Hall, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 728 words


Jan. 24--A new provision in the federal health care reform law is forcing
insurance executives to reconsider one of the fundamental decisions they make:

How do they spend the premiums they get from customers?

Do they spend them on customers' medicines, hospital stays and doctor visits,
and on programs to improve health care quality?

Or do they spend them on administrative items such as salaries, advertising,
agent commissions, overhead and profits?

A provision of the Affordable Care Act that went into effect Jan. 1 sets minimum
spending levels for medical claims: 80 percent and 85 percent of premium
revenue, depending on the insurance plan.

Some companies met those levels in 2009, according to a U.S. Senate committee
report. But others, including Anthem, Virginia's largest health-insurance
company, did not.

In effect, the law directs spending and caps profits. It also imposes penalties
in the form of refunds on those companies that don't meet the statutory
minimums.

"The future is still uncertain as far as the full impact of this regulation,"
said Robert Zirkelbach, press secretary for America's Health Insurance Plans, a
trade association.

In Virginia in 2009, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield spent 73 cents of every
premium dollar on health care items and 27 cents on administrative items,
according to a report published in April by the U.S. Senate Committee on
Commerce, Science and Transportation.

Within the insurance industry, this division of the spending pie is called the
medical loss ratio.

In Anthem's case, the Senate report lists the company's 2009 medical loss ratios
as:

72 percent for health-insurance plans sold to individuals

67 percent for plans sold to small employers

79 percent for plans sold to large employers.

The new law sets the minimum ratios at 80 percent for the individual and
small-group market and 85 percent for the large-group market.

So if Anthem spends its premium revenue in 2011 as it did in 2009, the company
will have to offer rebates to its customers by Aug. 1 of next year.

A spokesman for Anthem declined to comment last week on its medical loss ratios,
referring all questions to America's Health Insurance Plans, the trade group in
Washington.

"This is an issue that affects the entire health care industry," said Anthem
spokesman Scott Golden.

Similar information for other Virginia health-insurance companies is not
available, according to a spokesman for the state Bureau of Insurance.

WellPoint, Anthem's parent company, met the loss-ratio targets in 2009 for all
of its small-group and large-group plans, according to the report.

Aetna, CIGNA, Coventry, Humana and UnitedHealth also met the minimum for
large-group plans. All but Coventry also met the minimum for small-group plans.

However, in the individual market, only CIGNA met the required minimum.

The law defines how the ratios will be calculated and also specifies disclosure
and reporting requirements for the companies. The National Association of
Insurance Commissioners helped develop the regulations.

Supporters believe that the law will help hold down the increasing cost of
insurance.

According to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, almost half of
those who purchase insurance in the individual market are in plans that spend at
least 25 cents of every premium dollar on administrative costs.

But Zirkelbach of the industry trade group said that the underlying cost of
medical care is what drives health-insurance premiums.

"Unless medical costs are brought under control, premiums are going to continue
to increase," he said. "It's going to continue to be difficult for people to
afford coverage."

Jim Hall: 540/374-5433

Email: jhall@freelancestar.com

$2.3 BILLION: Total collected from premiums

$1.7 BILLION: Total spent on medical claims

$600 MILLION: Total spent on salaries, advertising, agent commissions, overhead
and profits. -- From April 2010 report by the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation. Numbers are for 2009 for Anthem Health Plans of
Virginia.

To see more of The Free Lance-Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://fredericksburg.com/flshome. Copyright (c) 2011, The Free Lance-Star,
Fredericksburg, Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
more information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110124-FB-HLT-Law-limits-insurance-company-spending-0124-20110124

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2011 The Free Lance-Star


                             282 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 16, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW HEALTH INSURANCE LAW AWAITS DECISION

BYLINE: BARBARA FEDER OSTROV, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 519 words


The fate of a landmark health insurance program for California workers may rest
on a few words in a referendum petition.

In a state appeals court hearing Thursday in San Francisco, a three-judge panel
heard oral arguments -- but did not rule -- on whether Californians will be able
to vote to repeal a new law requiring many employers to offer health insurance
to workers.

At stake is whether the referendum may appear on the November ballot; its
appearance on the March ballot is unlikely because some ballots that did not
include the measure already have been printed and sent to overseas voters.

The law, known as SB 2, or the Health Insurance Act of 2003, was passed by
legislators last year and signed by former Gov. Gray Davis shortly before the
recall election. Nearly 1 million uninsured California workers would receive
health benefits under the law.

A coalition of businesses opposed to the law quickly gathered more than620,000
signatures for a 2004 ballot measure that would overturn it. But a Sacramento
County Superior Court judge in December ruled that the petitions used were
invalid because they did not say that small businesses will not have to provide
health insurance unless state lawmakers first approve a tax credit. The
coalition appealed that decision.

At the 1st District Court of Appeal hearing, judges pressed attorneys for both
sides with detailed questions about the semantics of such words as "mandatory"
and "program."

Daniel Kolkey, attorney for a coalition backed by a state restaurant association
and the California Chamber of Commerce, argued that voters should not be denied
the right to decide whether to overturn the new law because of an error made by
the state attorney general's office, which drafted a description of the law for
the petition.

The description characterized the law as a "mandatory" program for businesses
with 20 or more workers. Supporters of the law say that is incorrect: Businesses
with 20 to 49 workers are exempt from the law unless legislators first approve
tax credits. Deputy Attorney General Hiren Patel told the judges the description
was by law limited to a certain number of words and thus did not include
information about the exemption.

He and Kolkey argued that the "mandatory" description is essentially correct
because small businesses cannot opt out of the program if such credits are
passed. Robin Johansen, an attorney for the law's chief authors, Democratic
state Sens. John Burton of San Francisco and Jackie Speier of San Mateo, called
the petition "extraordinarily misleading."

SB 2 requires employers to purchase health insurance for employees or pay into a
state fund that would provide it. Employers with 200 workers or more would be
asked to provide health insurance to employees and their families by 2006.
Businesses with 50 to 199 workers would have to provide insurance for employees,
but not their families, by 2007. Companies with 20 to 49 workers would be
required to provide insurance only if they are given a tax credit to defray
costs. Businesses with fewer than 20 workers would be exempt.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             283 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

Many health-insurance appeals likely

BYLINE: By Hillary Chabot, hchabot@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 404 words


BOSTON -- State officials are girding for an onslaught of appeals when the
penalties for the state's landmark health-insurance law come into play next
month.

Nearly half of uninsured residents who filed for an exemption already have
received a pass, but state officials said they have no idea how many exemption
requests they might be facing next year.

"Will it require more resources? Yes. We're determining how may additional
people we might need at this point," said Jamie Katz, general counsel for the
Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority.

The new law requires residents to get health insurance by Jan. 1 or lose their
personal tax exemption in 2008, about $219 for most people. If residents don't
sign up by the end of 2008, they'll have to pay half the cost of the most
affordable health-insurance plan next time they file their taxes.

So far, 46 residents have sought exemptions, and 19 of those have been approved.
Out of the 27 applications that were denied, one resident appealed the denial.

The board voted to make it easier for those looking for exemptions to file
through their taxes by holding the penalty fees until the exemption request is
approved or rejected.

Board members are still considering how many new people to hire in order to cope
with the exemptions. While officials suggested 60,000 people would qualify for a
waiver earlier this year, Katz said exemption requests could come pouring in
from any number of those still uninsured.

About 300,000 people have signed onto health insurance since the law went into
effect on July 1, but there could be up to 300,000 additional uninsured
residents.

Board members also discussed an upcoming new contract with companies that
provide Commonwealth Care, a state-subsidized insurance program.

The new contract could eat a huge hole in the upcoming budget, considering the
large number of uninsured residents still in the state. The health-care law has
already taken a sizable bite out of the current budget, said Senate Ways and
Means Chairman Steve Panagiotakos, D-Lowell.

"It's estimated to cost us from $150 million to $300 million," Panagiotakos
said. "The costs increase every year, so it's got to increase somewhat."

Panagiotakos said the cost of the new health-care law and the faltering state
lottery will be two of the biggest factors in the budget. "Yellow lights are all
over the place, and we're going to have to heed them," Panagiotakos said.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             284 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

U.S. Supreme Court upholds key part of health-care legislation

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 550 words


WASHINGTON * The U.S. Supreme Court sent a clear message Thursday that President
Barack Obama's health care overhaul is here to stay, rejecting a major challenge
that would have imperilled the landmark law and health insurance for millions of
Americans.

The president's signature domestic reform, known as Obamacare is, as the
president himself put it, "reality."

The law, which was passed in 2010 without a single Republican vote, prevents
insurance companies from denying coverage because of "pre-existing" health
conditions. It requires almost everyone in the U.S. to be insured and provides
financial help to consumers who otherwise would not be able to afford it. The
United States is the only major world economy that does not have a comprehensive
state health care system.

The 6-3 ruling, which upheld financial aid to millions of low- and middle-income
Americans to help cover insurance costs regardless of local regulations in their
states, was the second major victory in three years for Obama in politically
charged Supreme Court tests of the law.

Obama greeted news of the health care decision by declaring the law is no longer
about politics but the benefits millions of people are receiving. "This is no
longer about a law," he said at the White House. "This is health care in
America."

Declining to concede, top Republican congressman John Boehner said members of
his party, who have voted more than 50 times to undo the law, will "continue our
efforts to repeal the law and replace it with patient-centred solutions that
meet the needs of seniors, small business owners, and middle-class families."

Several Republican presidential candidates said they would continue the fight,
ensuring it will be an issue in the campaign.

While the court's ruling was an important victory for Obama and Democrats, it
could also be useful for Republicans as the 2016 presidential and congressional
elections heat up. It takes them off the hook, to a degree, from needing to draw
up an alternative to Obamacare. Also, it leaves them with the issue to hammer
home with their base of support where the law is unpopular.

Other legal challenges to the law are working their way through the courts, but
they appear to pose lesser threats.

Chief Justice John Roberts voted with his liberal colleagues in support of the
law. "Congress passed the Affordable Care Act to improve health insurance
markets, not to destroy them," Roberts wrote in the majority opinion.

Nationally, 10.2 million people have signed up for health insurance under the
law. That includes 8.7 million who are receiving an average subsidy of $272 a
month to help cover their health insurance costs. Of those receiving subsidies,
6.4 million were at risk of losing that aid because they live in states that did
not have the appropriate mechanisms for it.

The health insurance industry breathed a sigh of relief.

The law's opponents argued that the vast majority of people who now get help
paying for health insurance coverage are ineligible for their federal tax
credits. That is because roughly three dozen states opted against creating their
own health insurance marketplaces, or exchanges, and instead rely on a federal
platform to help people find coverage if they don't have it through their jobs.
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             285 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday

Health insurance mandate upheld, goes into effect in 2014

BYLINE: By Andrew Edwards and Jim Steinberg

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 593 words


Related story: UPDATE: State and local politicians react to health care ruling
Storify: Social media jabs mainstream on breaking news tactics, failings

The Supreme Court's 5-4 decision today to largely uphold President Obama's
health care law may eventually transform the way millions of Americans obtain
and pay for health insurance, as long as the law survives additional political
challenges.

"We have to assume, just like in the 1970s, when HMOs were introduced, that
there is a new health regime for for health care in the United States," said Jay
Starkman, CEO of Florida-based Engage PEO.

Engage PEO provides human resources work to small- and medium-sized businesses.

The business community's reaction to the law's potentially costly mandates is
mostly negative, said Starkman, who also praised some aspects of law for making
it harder for insurers to rescind coverage and allowing young adults to remain
on parents' healt plans until the age of 26.

For many households and businesses, the health care law's most controversial
provisions - mandatory insurance - will not go into effect until 2014.

If the law, frequently referred to as "Obamacare" is still in effect at that
point individuals and employers must choose between paying for health insurance
or a tax penalty to the IRS.

The Supreme Court affirmed Congress' power to levy such a tax in its 5-4 ruling
today.

Whether Congress continues to exercise that power depends upon the outcome of
this November's elections.

Republican challenger Mitt Romney pledged to sign a repeal of the law if he
defeats Obama, but he would also need his party to take control of the Senate
for a repeal to reach the Oval Office.

If the law remains in place, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office
estimates the law will result in up to 33 million people obtaining insurance by
2016.

Roughly 26 million people, many of whom would be illegal immigrants, would live
inside the United States and not have insurance at that point.

As of 2014, individuals who choose not to pay for health insurance would pay a
tax penalty of $95 or 1 percent of household income.

Employers who choose not to provide health insurance would have to pay $2,000 to
$3,000 in penalties for each full-time worker lacking coverage.

Those amounts are significantly less than typical health insurance premiums.
That's why San Bernardino consultant Joe Henehan predicts the law's supporters
will ultimately fail in their intention of getting enough new healthy people on
insurance rolls to provide more affordable coverage.

"The person that is sick won't buy insurance, and the healthy person won't buy
insurance until they need to, and that means insurance premiums will also go
up," Henehan predicted.

Most employers who provide coverage say they will not drop it in 2014, even
though the penalties on those who don't offer affordable coverage is less than
what many pay for insurance.

Stater Bros. Markets CEO Jack Brown said the grocery company provides health
insurance to its 18,000 employees and has never considered dropping coverage
because of the health care law.

"I can't make their (other employers') decisions, but at Stater Bros., as you
know, we won't treat our employees that way," Brown said.

The CBO estimates that about 3 million to 5 million people who otherwise would
have had employer coverage will lose it.

Some of those people will be eligible to buy insurance through new state
marketplaces, possibly with the aid of government subsidies.

The Associated Press contributed to this report

Reach Andrew @InlandBizz.

Reach Jim @JSteinbergsRoad.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (John Valenzuela/Staff Photographer) Dr. Deborah Behringer visits with
patient Betty Cockrum, Thursday afternoon at Redlands Community Hospital, June
28, 2012. The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld most of President Obamaâ s
health-care reform law in a 5-4 ruling.
Patient Dusty Cockrell, 34, of Ontario is examined by neurologist Rosemary
Chequer, M.D., as Cockrell's eight-year-old son Gabriel Lopez watches nearby at
Arrowhead Regional Medical Center in Colton on Wednesday, June 27, 2012.
Steve Remus, 55, of Fontana waits to be seen in the outpatient room at Arrowhead
Regional Medical Center in Colton on Wednesday, June 27, 2012.
Patients wait in line to check into the emergency room at Arrowhead Regional
Medical Center in Colton on Wednesday, June 27, 2012.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             286 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

GUEST COLUMN;
Children lose if health bill fails

BYLINE: Jay E. Berkelhamer; For the AJC

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 594 words


The Affordable Care Act became law on March 23, 2010. More than one year later,
many of its significant victories for children's health have already taken
effect, with many more yet to roll out over the next few years.

Yet the law's constitutionality is being challenged in a series of upcoming
court actions, including a June 8 proceeding in the 11th Circuit Court of
Appeals. Should this or any other pending lawsuit find the health care law
unconstitutional, many of its strong child health protections could be undone.
This would be a devastating blow for children's health here in Atlanta and
across the country.

Let me tell you why.

Currently under the law, no child can be denied health insurance coverage
because of a pre-existing condition. These conditions can range from some of the
most common and easily treatable such as asthma to potentially life-threatening
ones such as childhood cancer. What this protection means for so many children
here in Atlanta is something many of us take for granted: access to health care
services.

Not only does this access help pediatricians monitor and treat complex
conditions before they flare up, but it also helps save our health system money
in the long run by keeping these conditions in check with preventive care.

Oftentimes an early diagnosis can be the difference between a routine test and a
trip to the emergency room. Before health reform became the law, some of our
nation's most vulnerable children who needed immediate, specialized care were
left without any options to access it.

It broke my heart to see children suffering needlessly simply because they did
not have health insurance.

Now thanks to the Affordable Care Act, many of these children are getting the
care they need to stay healthy.

The focus of the 11th Circuit's case is whether one specific provision of the
law --- which in 2014 requires all individuals to purchase health insurance or
pay a small penalty --- is constitutional. Without this key provision, the law's
child health protections, including the ban on pre-existing condition
exclusions, cannot take effect.

This lawsuit fails to understand the value of the Affordable Care Act for
children.

An overwhelming majority of Americans have already taken responsibility for
their own health insurance and automatically comply with the individual mandate
provision because they have insurance through their employer, public programs
such as Medicare or Medicaid, or because they purchased their own plan.

Health insurance works most effectively when everyone participates. An insurance
market that doesn't require healthy people to contribute to the very care they
rely on when they become sick would cause premiums to spiral out of control,
leaving many people who need insurance the most without access to any affordable
care.

Requiring everyone to purchase health insurance balances this scale and makes
possible important protections such as the ban on pre-existing condition
exclusions for children.

Throughout my career as a pediatrician, I have seen the terrible consequences of
families not being able to access timely and appropriate services because of
inadequate health insurance.

This can become a thing of the past, but not without the law we all came
together to pass just over a year ago.

Challenging the Affordable Care Act in a courtroom or in the halls of the
Capitol is not the answer. Our children are better off because of this law, and
we owe it to them to make sure it takes effect.

Dr. Jay E. Berkelhamer of Atlanta is a past president of the American Academy of
Pediatrics.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2011 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             287 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Tyler Morning Telegraph (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 9, 2012 Monday

Tyler-area businesses concerned about health care costs

BYLINE: Dayna Worchel, Tyler Morning Telegraph, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 737 words


July 09--Some Tyler-based employers are saying it is too soon to speculate on
what the effects of the recent U.S. Supreme Court decision on health care reform
will be on their health care costs.

But those that did comment thought their cost to provide health insurance to
employees would increase, along with the employee's share of the costs.

On June 28, the court upheld all portions of the Affordable Care Act, which
President Barack Obama signed into law in March 2010, with the exception of
penalizing states that don't comply with the Medicaid expansion. The law
includes the mandate that virtually all Americans buy health insurance.

In a 5-4 decision, the justices agreed the penalty someone must pay if one
chooses not to buy health insurance is a type of tax. According to the ruling,
those who do not comply with the mandate to purchase health insurance by 2014
must make a "shared responsibility payment" to the Internal Revenue Service
along with their taxes.

The act states that the IRS is prohibited from using "several of its normal
enforcement tools such as criminal prosecutions and levies."

Sam Dawson is the president of Southside Bank, which has about 600 full-time
employees throughout East Texas with locations also in Austin and Dallas-Fort
Worth.

"We're pretty comfortable that it will cost the company and its employees
additional funds," Dawson said of the law.

The bank's employees have been paying about 12 to 15 percent of the cost of
their health care plan, Dawson said. He said that he anticipates that the cost
of the insurance for the employee will continue to escalate in the next few
years but said he is uncertain about how much the cost will increase.

Dawson said the bank had anticipated the ruling would occur, and that they had
been doing some planning.

"We know it won't get cheaper. When you put that many people on a plan, you
can't do it without some infusion of cash," he said of the health care law.
Dawson said he was surprised that the law was upheld.

"We still think it's unconstitutional," he said.

Another banking official in Tyler agrees that it's too early to tell what the
effects of the law will be on his institution, and said they still are figuring
out what the effect will be.

"The devil is in the details, coverage is expanding, nothing is free, so some
companies will wind up paying more in premiums and deductibles," Keith Chambers,
chief financial officer of Austin Bank, said.

The bank has about 100 full-time employees in Tyler and about 450 throughout
East Texas, Chambers said.

Red Brown owns three companies in Tyler: Texas Water Systems, Ameritex Drilling
Co. and Texas Pump and Water Systems, which employ a total of 50 people.

"Any impact that the law will have on a larger company will go down to a smaller
company," Brown said. He has owned his companies for 12 years, he said.

Brown said he just got through reviewing his health insurance costs for the
upcoming year, and said he expects they will rise by 8.6 percent. The government
will just continue to get larger as a result of the law being upheld, he said.

He said he thought the U.S. was headed toward socialized medicine because of the
new law. "The medical community is a free enterprise community. When you change
the free-market system, you remove all of the competition," Brown said.

Jim Hedrick, a business transaction attorney from the Potter-Minton law firm in
Tyler, said last week there is disagreement about whether health insurance
premiums will go up or down. But the legal battle is largely decided, he said.
The Supreme Court has no control over the setting of health insurance premiums,
Hedrick said.

The Medicaid expansion penalties portion of the law was not upheld because the
Supreme Court held that it was unconstitutional, Hedrick said. The federal
government reimburses states for a portion of Medicaid. The new law expanded
greatly the scope of Medicaid and who was covered and also increased funding to
the states, Hedrick said.

The federal law told the states that if they didn't go along with the expansion,
they would cut off all of the state's funding, Hedrick said. The law now is that
the federal government still can go forward with the expansion plan, but they
can't penalize the states if the states don't agree, he said.

___ (c)2012 Tyler Morning Telegraph (Tyler, Texas) Visit Tyler Morning Telegraph
(Tyler, Texas) at www.tylerpaper.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120709-TY-Tyler-area-businesses-concerned-about-health-care-costs-20120709

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TY


                     Copyright 2012 Tyler Morning Telegraph


                             288 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday

Ten things you need to know about the law

LENGTH: 248  words


1) The law applies to the entire emirate of Dubai, including the development
areas and free zones.
2) It applies to nationals, residents, visitors, employers, sponsors, healthcare
providers, health-insurance companies, third-party administrators,
health-insurance brokers and any other individual decided by the Executive
Council.


3) It requires companies to directly buy private health insurance for their
staff.
4) The government will be responsible for bearing the cost of health insurance
for Emiratis.
5) It is the responsibility of the employer or sponsor to enrol all employees in
to the mandatory health-insurance scheme and to insure the scheme is up to date
and valid at all times. Any costs must be borne by the employer.
6) All employees must have, at the minimum, an essential benefits package. It is
at the employer's discretion to provide any additional coverage.
7) Breaches of the law can carry a minimum fine of Dh500 and a maximum fine of
Dh150,000, while those with repeat offences could be hit with fines of up to
Dh500,000.
8) The health-insurance card will be valid for one year and will have to be
renewed annually.
9) Only registered insurance companies with Health Insurance Permits, obtainable
from the DHA, will be able to provide insurance schemes and packages.
10) The law will come into effect next year.
* Jennifer Bell
<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>Copyrights © 2013 Abu Dhabi Media Company, All
rights reserved.Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2013 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             289 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday

Senator takes aim at health care law;

BYLINE: KEVIN O'HANLON

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 514 words


Omaha Sen. Beau McCoy has renewed his challenge of the federal health care
reform law, which he argues is unconstitutional because it mandates that most
people buy health insurance.

McCoy introduced legislation (LB219) Monday that would allow people to elect to
not have health care insurance. Requiring most people to have insurance was a
cornerstone of President Barack Obama's election campaign.

Several lawsuits have been filed challenging the federal health care law. Among
them is one brought by 20 states, including Nebraska, contending the law's
requirement that nearly all Americans carry insurance is unconstitutional. It
also challenges whether the federal government can require states to expand
their Medicaid programs.

Last year, McCoy introduced a similar measure in the form of a proposed
constitutional amendment, which would have been put before voters to approve. It
never got to the floor for debate.

The federal health care law would extend coverage to 30 million uninsured
Americans, including those with pre-existing conditions - a reason often cited
by insurance companies for denying coverage.

McCoy's bill also would prohibit a penalty or fine for declining health care
coverage or for participating in a particular health care plan.

Last week, he introduced a bill that would prohibit the use of federal dollars
funneled to the so-called health care exchange under the law to pay for
abortions. McCoy said mandated insurance coverage, fines for not carrying health
insurance and federal money being used to pay for abortions are the main reasons
many people oppose the law.

"I believe those three components ... are probably what the majority of
Nebraskans that I talk to - and probably the majority of Americans - have issues
with,'' McCoy said.

Jennifer Carter, with Nebraska Appleseed, which promotes health care access, has
said there was broad agreement that health care in this country was broken and
something needed to be done.

When people do not have health insurance and get sick or suffer a catastrophic
injury, it drives up health care costs, she said Monday. "The rest of us pay,"
she said. "The goal is to make it less expensive for everybody."

Carter also said she was dubious a state law could override federal law. U.S.
District Judge Henry Hudson of Virginia recently ruled that Congress overstepped
its constitutional power when it imposed the health insurance mandate. Hudson
said the mandate exceeds the Constitution's Commerce Clause, which is not due to
take effect until 2014.

"Despite the laudable intentions of Congress in enacting a comprehensive and
transformative health care regime, the legislative process must still operate
within constitutional bounds," Hudson wrote.

But two other judges hearing similar lawsuits have upheld the mandate. The issue
is expected eventually to reach the U.S. Supreme Court.

The Commerce Clause says Congress can "regulate commerce ... among the several
states." But the Supreme Court has struggled for years to define what activities
that covers.

Reach Kevin O'Hanlon at 402-473-2682 or kohanlon@journalstar.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                             290 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday

Dubai plans law on basic healthcare for all

LENGTH: 742 words


DUBAI - Dubai is heading towards private health insurance for all residents that
will be governed by an insurance law, according to a senior health official.

Once rolled out, the law will mandate basic healthcare to an estimated two
million people from all strata of society in Dubai. It is loosely based on
existing regional models such as the Daman Health Insurance in Abu Dhabi and the
national insurance system in Saudi Arabia.

The regulatory framework of Dubai's mandatory health insurance law is ready and
is currently being reviewed by the Dubai Executive Council. "Timelines for
implementation will be announced soon after the law is in place," said Dr Yousuf
Haider, Director of Health Funding Department at the Dubai Health Authority.

"The proposal is in good shape right now and is in the final stages of approval.
Once this is done, it will be ready for implementation," he said without
mentioning an expected date for its [#x2028]approval.

Implementation in phases

The law stipulates that the sponsor will be responsible for providing insurance
cover to those under his sponsorship, be it his family or employees. The law,
like all regulatory frameworks, will also address penalties for non-compliance.
The regulation replaces an earlier health funding model that was deferred by the
Dubai government in 2008 after the global economic climate became unviable for
its implementation.

"The Health Funding Department has been working on the law while keeping in mind
employers, providers and insurance companies," said Dr Yousuf. "Though many
companies provide insurance cover to their employees, it is done randomly and is
not mandatory," he explained.

An estimated 500,000 people currently have some form of private health insurance
in Dubai. "Once the law is fully implemented and over the period of time
suggested, everyone in Dubai will have private insurance," he said.

Companies that will have the lowest impact in terms of the premium on daily
operations will come under the law first. "A lot of multinational companies and
more established local companies already have private health insurance. So these
people will automatically plug into the system," he explained.

"But then as the rollout process advances, for example, companies with 500 to
1,000 employees from different sectors will also come into the law gradually."

Dr Yousuf also said that the upcoming insurance model was right for Dubai as per
the changing economic climate. "We take into account the cost of doing business.
This is not supposed to be a burden on businesses but should add to the economy
- not only to the health sector but to the economy across the board."

Two million to benefit

"From a provider's point of view, the target population is now two million
people. And from the investors' and private healthcare facilities view point,
this is fantastic news because it means that funds in the system are available,"
he said.

A recently held Dubai Household Survey revealed that 77 per cent people from the
low income bracket in Dubai do not have any health cover. "The law is all about
protection and we want to ensure that the weakest members of the society are
protected by health insurance," explained Dr Yousuf.

"So, at the moment, a poor labourer whose salary, for example is Dh1,000 and is
sick and does not have health [#x2028]insurance, could either lose all of his
salary in treatment or save it only if the employer decides to get it
reimbursed. So, the aim is that the poor and vulnerable members of the society
should not go into financial ruin and take money out of their food or basic
requirements."

All beneficiaries, however, will also have to contribute to access basic
healthcare. "There will always be co-payment in any insurance system which
ensures that people don't overuse these services unnecessarily."

Dr Yousaf said the new model suits the large percentage of expatriate
population. "There are large groups that require healthcare at a reasonable cost
and decent coverage," he added.

Before Abu Dhabi came up with its mandatory health insurance system Daman, only
100,000 expatriates out of an estimated population of 1.46 million were
medically insured. Since the implementation of the system in January 2007, the
number of insured people has increased 10-fold. The basic Daman plan covers
examination, diagnostic and treatment services provided that the insured pays
Dh20 for every new visit and Dh10 when referred to a [#x2028]specialist.
[#x2028] asmaalizain@khaleejtimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2011 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             291 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday

Lawmakers approve abortion rider bill;

BYLINE: KEVIN O'HANLON

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 383 words


Nebraska is set to join five other states in banning private insurers from
paying for abortions unless the customer buys a separate rider for the extra
coverage.

Lawmakers gave 37-7 approval Thursday to the bill, (LB22) by Sen. Beau McCoy of
Omaha, that also would restrict insurance coverage of abortion in policies
offered through the health insurance exchanges that will be established by the
federal health care reform law. The law allows states to opt out of such
coverage.

An abortion would be allowed to protect the life of the mother. It does not make
an exception for pregnancies resulting from rape or incest.

The bill now goes to Gov. Dave Heineman for his signature.

According to the Guttmacher Institute, which tracks abortion statistics, only
Idaho, Kentucky, Missouri, North Dakota and Oklahoma have laws restricting
insurance coverage of abortion in all private insurance plans written in the
state, including those that will be offered through the health insurance
exchanges. Rhode Island passed a similar law, which was blocked by a court.

All five states have exceptions allowing abortion if a mother's life is in
danger. Oklahoma also has an exception for rape and incest.

In all five states, additional abortion coverage is available only through
purchase of a separate rider and payment of an additional premium.

The health care exchanges were created last year, when President Barack Obama
signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The state-level
health care exchanges, which will not be in place until 2014, are meant to help
people and small businesses buy affordable private health insurance plans. The
exchanges are meant to offer a choice of health insurance plans, establish
common rules for things such as pricing and help consumers understand their
options.

But even before the national health care law was brought into the abortion
debate, 12 states, including Nebraska, already had banned or restricted abortion
coverage for public employees.

A 1976 federal provision known as the Hyde Amendment prohibits the use of
federal funds for abortion coverage for Medicaid recipients, except in the case
of rape, incest or danger to the mother's health. Congress has allowed
exceptions to the ban.

Reach Kevin O'Hanlon at 402-473-2682 or kohanlon@journalstar.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                             292 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   March 27, 1996, Wednesday, JOURNAL EDITION

Pass insurance reforms a even one at a time

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 388 words


TWENTY-FIVE MILLION Americans could benefit immediately from proposed health
insurance legislation before Congress that would achieve two important
objectives: prevent denial of insurance on the basis of pre- existing conditions
and guarantee portability of insurance when workers lose or change jobs.

Bills to do both have passed committees in the Senate and House. But with a vote
scheduled this week on the House floor and one later this month in the Senate,
partisan politics threatens to sidetrack even those simple steps to relieve
worker insecurity. The Democrats are fearful the GOP might get credit for
progress on the health reform the Clintons botched two years ago, and House
Republicans want to be sure any reform they approve is something different from
the bipartisan Senate bill which bears the name of Democratic Sen. Ted Kennedy.
The other Senate sponsor is retiring Kansas Republican Nancy Kassebaum.

The equivalent House measure is sponsored by Rep. Marge Roukema (R- N.J.), but
House Republicans want to add several other proposals a medical savings
accounts, malpractice reform, an increase in insurance tax deductibility for the
self-employed, and tax breaks for investing in long-term care insurance. While
all of those are meritorious a especially Medical Savings Accounts a they carry
a fiscal impact that the simpler measure does not carry. So Republicans like
Roukema and Kassebaum argue for keeping the issues separate.

There's good reason not to delay. Almost 80 million Americans have pre-existing
conditions that make changing jobs a health insurance risk, and 40 million
working Americans a mostly with small companies a have no insurance at all. Even
the Independent Insurance Agents of America, which worked for defeat of the
Clinton plan, is supportive. The measure allows an insurer to exclude someone
with a pre-existing condition for up to a year, but no longer.

The House ought to approve the Roukema bill separate from the more expensive
omnibus measure sponsored by Rep. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill). By the same token, the
president and House Democrats should stop pretending that Medical Savings
Accounts only apply to the rich and offer bipartisan support.

Incremental changes are the only way health reforms are going to work. Surely
Congress has learned that by now.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution


                             293 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday

U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia says federal health care
mandate is constitutional

BYLINE: Pat Murphy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 282  words


The individual mandate in the new federal health care reform law is
constitutional, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia has ruled
in granting a dismissal.

President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
into law in 2010. Section 1501 of the Act, known as the Minimum Essential
Coverage Provision, imposes a tax penalty on those who fail to purchase a
minimum level of health insurance beginning in 2014.

In this case, five individual plaintiffs sued the federal government, seeking a
declaration that §1501's individual mandate is unconstitutional. Specifically,
the plaintiffs contended that the statute exceeds Congress' authority under the
Commerce Clause.

The court disagreed, deciding that "Congress had a rational basis for its
conclusion that the aggregate of individual decisions not to purchase health
insurance substantially affects the national health insurance market.
Consequently, Congress was acting within the bounds of its Commerce Clause power
when it enacted §1501 in order, as Chief Justice Marshall said, 'to prescribe
the rule by which [interstate] commerce is to be governed. '"

Similar conclusions have been reached by federal judges in Michigan and the
Western District of Virginia, whereas the Act has been declared unconstitutional
by federal judges in Florida and the Eastern District of Virginia.

The court in this case further rejected the plaintiffs' alternative contentions
that the individual mandate unconstitutionally burdens their Christian beliefs
and violates the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.

U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. Mead v. Holder, No. 10-950.
Feb. 22, 2011. Lawyers USA No. 993-2686.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             294 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Financial Post (Toronto, Canada)

                     August 30, 1986, Saturday, ALL EDITION

Canadian Life and Health Insurance Association Inc.

SECTION: SECTION 1; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: Toronto,Ontario


  Robert Begin, Chairman of the Board of the Canadian Life and Health Insurance
Association Inc.,is pleased to announce the appointment of Gerald M. Devlin,
Q.C., as President.

Mr. Devlin has eight years'experience with the Association as Executive Vice
President. Previously, he was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at a
major Canadian life insurer. He is a graduate of the University of Toronto and
Osgoode Hall Law School and a member of the Law Society of Upper Canada. He was
appointed a Queen's Counsel in 1975.

Over the past 25 years,Mr. Devlin has served the Canadian Bar Association in a
variety of executive capacities. He has worked as President and Director of the
Thomas More Lawyers Guild of Toronto, Director of Catholic Family Services and
Director of Community Contacts for the Widowed.

The Canadian Life and Health Insurance Association Inc. is the oldest
organization of insurance companies (life and health) inNorth America. Its
membership includes 109 Canadian, American, British and other European companies
representing 99 per cent of the life and health insurance in force in Canada.




LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: APPOINTMENT NOTICE

                       Copyright 1986 Financial Post Ltd.


                             295 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

Universal healthcare unveiled

BYLINE: Luiz Sanchez

LENGTH: 1046 words


Doctor Abdel Hamid Omar Abaza, assistant to the Minister of Health and
Population, speaks to the Daily News Egypt
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE

Egypt's Ministry of Health is unveiling the new universal healthcare law which
will provide every Egyptian with compulsory comprehensive health coverage. After
years of complaints, in February the Parliament's Health Committee reported 65
per cent of Egyptians were unhappy with the country's national health insurance
scheme, so there will be high expectations of the health minister. The new law
will supplant the current healthcare system once the final points of the law are
finalised and the law itself is accepted by the government.

Doctor Abdel Hamid Omar Abaza, assistant to the Minister of Health and
Population, spoke to the Daily News Egypt. The health bill will be a public
scheme aimed at providing full coverage for every Egyptian citizen in need of
emergency medical assistance and will be enforced through severe penalties which
include heavy monetary fines and/or imprisonment, depending on the infraction.

Thank you for meeting me today Dr Abaza. How do you feel this new health
insurance law will improve the health sector?

It will improve the health sector because it will cover all Egyptians. It will
be under the control of a new committee which is going to contract with all the
people working in the medical field, be they public or private. There will be a
separation between those providing the service and those controlling and
covering the service. This separation is going to make the follow-up and the
checking of the medical service on a very high level because right now the group
providing the service is also the group monitoring the service, which is of
course not very correct.

There have been rumours that the ministry may privatise health insurance-

Not at all, whoever said so did not read the law because this new organisation
which is going to be added is a public organisation and will be under the
control of his Excellency the Prime minister. So no, there will be no
privatisation.

How will this law cater for the Egyptians that cannot afford to pay for the
insurance?

There will be no increase in costs for anyone. On the contrary, the poor people
will be covered by the government. The government will take over around 20 or 30
percent of the population who are unable to pay the cost, so there is no burden
on the poor.

Will this health insurance be mandatory?

It is mandatory. Even if you have, and this is a very crucial point, a private
insurance you may go with your private insurance but you have to pay the public
insurance as a way of covering for the poor people. At this moment in time we
are against an opt out option.

So if you still have your own private health insurance, can you make use of the
new mandatory insurance?

Yes you can make use of both.

And regards to medicine; There have been complaints that local pharmaceuticals
have a hard time competing against their overseas counter-parts and so medicine
is often too expensive for many Egyptians living below the poverty line. Will
this new health insurance law tackle this issue?

Yes of course as I mentioned before the government will pay for the poor and the
medicine in Egypt is the cheapest in the world. Many people from Arab countries
come to Egypt to buy their medication and take it back to their country. So we
already have a very cheap medical system, but at the same time we are going to
push the governmental companies to increase the number of medicines available
and will be prescribed by its scientific name, not by the trade name, which will
help a lot in reducing the price of medicine.

In regards to private insurance, people are welcome to do that.

Are there any plans in cooperating with international organisations to improve
the quality of healthcare in Egypt?

At this moment we don't have such plans but as soon as the medical insurance law
is issued and applied we can cooperate with international groups to be involved
inside this insurance.

Does this new law make any mention of people with special needs?

Doctor Abdel Hamid Omar Abaza, assistant to the Minister of Health and
Population, speaks to the Daily News Egypt
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE

Everyone is covered by this new law. The farmers, people without jobs, people
with special needs, the homeless and those that have no syndicate. They will all
be covered by this law.

But how will the most destitute, those who have no homes and no identification,
benefit from this law?

The Ministry of Social Solidarity has a list of these families, and they will be
covered by the government. They will be given an insurance card which they can
use at the hospitals.

You mentioned earlier that the health insurance law will be very comprehensive.
What sort of treatment will the law cover?

The law covers all forms of treatment except vaccinations and primary healthcare
which is by law the responsibility of the Ministry.

Once the law is enacted, will it be implemented in Cairo first and spread from
there, or will the Ministry apply it everywhere simultaneously?

It will be applied everywhere.

Are there any long-term plans to expand the medical services provided by the
ministry of health?

We have a long-term plan of course, but at this moment in time we don't have the
budget to hire new employees. When things improve on the general level we can
expand.

So many people in Egypt also work outside of the formal sector receiving cash
money, such as those in the tourism industry, and so there is very little record
of their earnings. How will these people deal with being covered under the
health-care if they don't have a salary?

They may not have a salary but they will have a syndicate. Any group of people
with a syndicate will deal with the syndicate. It will take the money from them
directly but if they do not have the money to pay the syndicate the government
will cover them.

But what of those that do not belong to a syndicate?

This is one of the main problems we are facing but at this moment a group of
people who do not have a syndicate or a body that represents them does not
exceed ten percent, so it is not a big deal. We will depend on them to come to
us to pay for them.

Will this also cover drug abuse?

Addiction and drug abuse is not covered by the health insurance law.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2012 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             296 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday
                                   L2 Edition

Congressional hopefuls on opposite sides on health care

BYLINE: By Madhu Krishnamurthy mkrishnamurthy@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 523 words


Americans have barely started to get familiarized with the 6-month-old health
care reform law that went into effect March 23.

Republican candidate Joel Pollak, who is challenging incumbent Democrat Jan
Schakowsky for the 9th Congressional District seat on Nov. 2, thinks the
Affordable Care Act law ought to be scrapped.

In a recent interview with the Daily Herald editorial board, Pollak said
legislators should go back to the drawing board and draft a law that lowers the
cost of health insurance.

"I think it's a sign -- Congress already is considering changes to that law
because nobody bothered to read 2,300-plus pages of legislation -- that we do
need to scrap

it and start over," Pollak

said.

"I think that we should be able to provide every American with health insurance,
I just don't think that every American should have to get health insurance from
or through the government."

Barring reversal of the new law, the Skokie attorney and former Democrat says
the debate over health care should go forward, starting with reforms "that will
drive down the cost of health insurance and create real competition in insurance
markets like allowing people to buy insurance across state lines."

Pollak said he supports tort reform, saying it would help lower the cost of
malpractice insurance and defensive medicine, and believes in expanding medical
savings accounts that individuals

can used for health expenditures.

"This law that passed does not do that, does not address the overall problem of
cost," he said.

"Many of the budget projections that were made turned out to be faulty."

Schakowsky, who is running for her seventh term in the U.S. House of
Representatives, rejected the idea that tort reform will provide significant
cost savings.

"It is not the litigiousness that is costing, and even defensive medicine plays
a very small part in the increase (in health insurance rates)," she said.

Schakowsky said tort reform blames the victim, "somebody who has been hurt by a
medical mistake to have to bear the brunt of that. I believe in the civil
justice system and juries, not legislators to decide how much is a just
compensation."

The Evanston Democrat said she is co-sponsoring a bill with California Sen.
Diane Feinstein that would allow the federal and state governments the ability
to review insurance rates and modify them. Twenty-four states already have such
oversight powers.

"So that if it is shown that there is no justification for a rate increase, that
rate could actually be modified," Schakowsky said.

Schakowsky said also wants to revisit the idea of public option health insurance
-- which Democrats gave up to get the law passed. The Congressional Budget
Office estimates it would save $68 billion over seven years, she said.

"This, at base, for me is a moral issue," Schakowsky said, "that the United
States of America, like every other developed nation in the world, says to its
people, 'We will not let you die for lack of health insurance like 45,000
Americans do right now.'

"I think going forward, like with Medicare, like with Social Security, there
have always been changes. I think we can make adjustments as we go along."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jan SchakowskyJoel Pollak

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             297 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 14, 2016 Thursday

ADA urges lawmakers to reexamine McCarran-Ferguson

LENGTH: 345  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Chicago: American Dental Association has issued the following news release:



 The ADA submitted written testimony April 12 to the Senate Judiciary
subcommittee on antitrust, competition policy and consumer rights, urging
committee members to reexamine the antitrust exemption enjoyed by health
insurance companies as a result of the 1945 McCarran-Ferguson law.





 "The current debate regarding health care reform requires serious consideration
of any and all means to introduce competition and make health insurance
affordable for all Americans," wrote the Association, which has long contended
the ability to collude on payments gives health insurance companies an unfair
competitive advantage.



 "An important step toward achieving these objectives is eliminating the
outdated antitrust exemption that grants health insurers special status, and
permits them to ignore the competitive rules that apply to every other U.S.
business."



 The state action doctrine, the Association said, provides a "more comprehensive
and systemic solution to the problem the McCarran-Ferguson Act was originally
intended to address -- i.e., state and federal regulatory conflict -- so that
the Act exists today primarily as an historical vestige whose complicated terms
have resulted in misinterpretation and mischief."



 The Association concluded by saying it "strongly supports" the Competitive
Health Insurance Reform Act, introduced last year by Rep. Paul Gosar. That bill
would authorize the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department to
"enforce the federal antitrust laws against health insurance companies engaged
in anticompetitive conduct" and would not interfere with the states' ability to
enforce their own regulations, antitrust statues and consumer protection laws.



 "When competition is not robust, consumers are more likely to face higher
prices and less likely to and less likely to benefit from innovation and variety
in the marketplace."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             298 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday

ADA urges lawmakers to reexamine McCarran-Ferguson

LENGTH: 345  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Chicago: American Dental Association has issued the following news release:



 The ADA submitted written testimony April 12 to the Senate Judiciary
subcommittee on antitrust, competition policy and consumer rights, urging
committee members to reexamine the antitrust exemption enjoyed by health
insurance companies as a result of the 1945 McCarran-Ferguson law.





 "The current debate regarding health care reform requires serious consideration
of any and all means to introduce competition and make health insurance
affordable for all Americans," wrote the Association, which has long contended
the ability to collude on payments gives health insurance companies an unfair
competitive advantage.



 "An important step toward achieving these objectives is eliminating the
outdated antitrust exemption that grants health insurers special status, and
permits them to ignore the competitive rules that apply to every other U.S.
business."



 The state action doctrine, the Association said, provides a "more comprehensive
and systemic solution to the problem the McCarran-Ferguson Act was originally
intended to address -- i.e., state and federal regulatory conflict -- so that
the Act exists today primarily as an historical vestige whose complicated terms
have resulted in misinterpretation and mischief."



 The Association concluded by saying it "strongly supports" the Competitive
Health Insurance Reform Act, introduced last year by Rep. Paul Gosar. That bill
would authorize the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department to
"enforce the federal antitrust laws against health insurance companies engaged
in anticompetitive conduct" and would not interfere with the states' ability to
enforce their own regulations, antitrust statues and consumer protection laws.



 "When competition is not robust, consumers are more likely to face higher
prices and less likely to and less likely to benefit from innovation and variety
in the marketplace."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             299 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 12, 2016 Tuesday

ADA urges lawmakers to reexamine McCarran-Ferguson

LENGTH: 345  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Chicago: American Dental Association has issued the following news release:



 The ADA submitted written testimony April 12 to the Senate Judiciary
subcommittee on antitrust, competition policy and consumer rights, urging
committee members to reexamine the antitrust exemption enjoyed by health
insurance companies as a result of the 1945 McCarran-Ferguson law.





 "The current debate regarding health care reform requires serious consideration
of any and all means to introduce competition and make health insurance
affordable for all Americans," wrote the Association, which has long contended
the ability to collude on payments gives health insurance companies an unfair
competitive advantage.



 "An important step toward achieving these objectives is eliminating the
outdated antitrust exemption that grants health insurers special status, and
permits them to ignore the competitive rules that apply to every other U.S.
business."



 The state action doctrine, the Association said, provides a "more comprehensive
and systemic solution to the problem the McCarran-Ferguson Act was originally
intended to address -- i.e., state and federal regulatory conflict -- so that
the Act exists today primarily as an historical vestige whose complicated terms
have resulted in misinterpretation and mischief."



 The Association concluded by saying it "strongly supports" the Competitive
Health Insurance Reform Act, introduced last year by Rep. Paul Gosar. That bill
would authorize the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department to
"enforce the federal antitrust laws against health insurance companies engaged
in anticompetitive conduct" and would not interfere with the states' ability to
enforce their own regulations, antitrust statues and consumer protection laws.



 "When competition is not robust, consumers are more likely to face higher
prices and less likely to and less likely to benefit from innovation and variety
in the marketplace."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             300 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            February 24, 2014 Monday

Compulsory health insurance touches down in Dubai

LENGTH: 1081  words


Compulsory health insurance has arrived in Dubai. Having watched as Abu Dhabi,
Qatar and Saudi Arabia established their health care schemes, Dubai has drawn on
certain aspects of these schemes whilst ensuring that its own reflects the
uniqueness of Dubai's society.Approved by His Highness Sheikh Mohammad Bin
Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of
Dubai, Dubai Health Insurance Law No. 11 of 2013 came into effect on 1 January
2014 (Law). The aim of the Law is to create an integrated health system for
Dubai, based on a sustainable financing system that supports the competiveness
of Dubai and protects the rights of all participants. The Law phases in the
requirement for all employers in Dubai to have in place compliant health
insurance cover for their employees. It applies to all participants in the
health insurance arena including health service providers, insurance companies,
insurance brokers, claims administration companies, employers, sponsors and
beneficiaries.


This article discusses some of the principle features of the Law and what they
mean for those involved in health insurance in the Emirate.
When will the law begin to apply?
Whilst the Law came into effect on 1 January 2014, the provision of health
insurance cover will only become mandatory for:companies with more than 1,000
employees, from 31 October 2014;companies with 100-999 employees, from 31 July
2015; andcompanies with less than 100 employees, from 30 June 2016.The roll out
phase also provides that dependents of sponsors, including domestic workers,
must also be covered for the basic health coverage by 30 June 2016.
What does this mean for me as an employee based in Dubai?
The Law's jurisdiction spreads across the entirety of the Emirate, including its
development areas and free zones so eventually all of the nearly three million
residents of Dubai, nationals and expatriates alike, should be covered. That
said, the minimum cover offered will differ between residents and nationals with
the later also having access to additional preventative and therapeutic health
services. The schemes for both nationals and residents will at a minimum cover
general practitioner visits, emergency treatments, referrals to specialists as
well as surgical, investigative and maternity procedures.
Separately, in the case of visitors to Dubai, the Law indicates that further
regulation will be developed to provide for cover in the case of emergency
treatments.
What are my obligations as an employer?

Employers are required to put in place health cover for their staff that meets
the minimum requirements of the Law. The Law stipulates that employers cannot
simply pass on the cost of the cover to their staff and the Dubai Health
Authority (DHA) has made clear that it will treat any attempts to do so
seriously. As a means of ensuring cover is put in place and maintained, the
renewal of an employee's visa will be subject to the employee having health
insurance in place. Employers have to provide a basic health coverage with an
annual premium anywhere between Dh500-Dh700 and a maximum insurance cover per
person per annum of Dh150,000.
One of the key differences of Dubai's health insurance regime is that employers
are not required to provide coverage for the dependents of their employees. By
making family cover compulsory, companies could be biased towards hiring single
executives to save costs which could in turn shift the balance of Dubai's
demographic make-up away from its current family-orientated focus. Instead,
cover for dependents falls to the sponsor themselves. So where a dependent does
not receive cover from an employer, it becomes the responsibility of the sponsor
to put in place and maintain the required cover (though this does not apply
until July 2016).
Failure by employers to provide insurance carries fines of between Dh500 and
Dh150,000. Repeated breaches carry a maximum fine of Dh 500,000.
Licensing of industry participants
The Law requires that health service providers, insurers, claim administration
companies and insurance brokers have in place a licence should they engage in
any health insurance related activities in Dubai. The requirement came into
effect on 1 January 2014 with an unofficial grace period applying provided that
participants lodged their applications with the relevant authority and the DHA
before the 1 January deadline. Licences are valid and renewable for one year
periods.
Regulations to come?
The Law contemplates incoming regulations to address the specifics around the
minimum cover that employers will need to provide.
In addition, the DHA has indicated that they will be preparing regulations that
govern the pricing of health services by providers and the premium amount
charged by insurers to policy holders. There is a concern that the costs arising
from the scheme be efficiently allocated to the various participants so, in
order to restrict any particular sector gaining a disproportionate share of
market power, pricing parameters may be put in place to ensure the scheme
remains sustainable.

Previous experiences in the Gulf have also shown that in the race to offer the
lowest prices, insurers have offered health products at below cost prices. This
pricing is achieved by insurer's subsidising the cost of their health products
from their more profitable product lines. Whilst prices are low for the insured
in the short term, experience has shown that such practices are not easily
maintained and can create issues with the stringent capital requirements that
apply to insurers. In order to address this issue, insurers may be required to
submit certification from their actuaries to the effect that the premium will
sustain the costs of the product without cross-subsidisation. It will be
interesting to see how the incoming regulations will interact with the U.A.E.'s
recently enacted competition law which itself provides for a restriction on
companies setting prices less than the actual cost of producing the product or
service.
The new health insurance regime in Dubai looks to be a considered and timely
step in the movement for universal health care throughout the Gulf region.
Although there have been questions raised as to the lack of homogeny of the
various regimes, it may well be the better strategy to allow time to show which
proves the most efficient before attempting to create a single, consistent
regime for the entire region.© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             301 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 351 words

A GOP rift on health insurance exchanges

The Obama administration has spent $729 million laying the groundwork for health
insurance exchanges, according to a White House report published Wednesday. That
number will probably surpass $1 billion in coming months, as states continue
setting up the marketplaces where Americans will shop for health insurance
beginning in 2014. States are pretty much all over the place on exchanges right
now. Fourteen have established marketplaces, and another five intend to do so.

The report shows what the administration's spending has purchased: buy-in on
implementation from states that aren't exactly fans of the Affordable Care Act.
Twenty-eight states have received multimillion-dollar "exchange establishment"
grants to get started on the heavy lifting of building a health insurance
marketplace. Half of those states have Republican governors, a few of whom have
embraced the idea of health insurance exchanges.

"What we're trying to do here is set up an Alabama health insurance exchange so
people in the state, regardless of where you are in life - whether you are a
young mother or whether you are a college student or whether you are an elderly
person with a preexisting disease - you will be able to purchase insurance,"
Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley (R) told a local paper late last year.

What the White House doesn't highlight are states that haven't bought in - those
that have resolutely resisted setting up an exchange. Florida, Louisiana, Texas
and others are committed to not moving forward on implementation until the
Supreme Court rules on the health-care law's constitutionality. Two years after
the law passed, many states are taking a wait-and-see approach: 22 are still
studying their options on health insurance exchanges.

Ultimately, what's materializing is a rift within the Republican Party. Some
states support implementing the law and retaining more power, as the federal
government can set up exchanges in states that don't move on their own. Others,
however, want to opt out of implementing a law they believe to be
unconstitutional.

- Sarah Kliff

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             302 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

Days numbered for Greater Lowell Tech board's insurance perk

BYLINE: By Sarah Favot, sfavot@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 932 words


TYNGSBORO -- Greater Lowell Technical High School appears to be violating state
laws by offering health insurance to School Committee members.

Under the state statute that governs health insurance for municipal employees, a
municipal employee is defined as someone, whether employed, appointed or
elected, who receives compensation. Greater Lowell Tech School Committee members
do not receive a stipend for serving on the committee, and to
Superintendent-Director Mary Jo Santoro's knowledge, never have.

Santoro said it is written in the School Committee policy that committee members
are eligible for health insurance from the school district.

She said those policies are currently under review by the committee with the
Massachusetts Association of School Committees to ensure all policies are
compliant with Massachusetts General Laws.

The policy regarding health insurance has come up under that review.

"I believe the law reflects having to be paid a stipend," said Santoro. "That
came up during the policy review and it will be revised as part of the policy
review."

The School Committee members are reviewing the new policies, which are in draft
form.

Chairman-elect Victor Olson, of Dracut, said the health-insurance perk will be
removed from the policy going forward.

School Committee members have not yet voted on the updated policies.

Olson said the health insurance benefit for School Committee members was just
one aspect of the policy manual that hadn't been updated in 11 years.

"A lot of things were outdated with how the school does things," he said.

"I don't know if anybody was specifically looking at that aspect of the law,"
said Olson, when asked why members continued to receive the health-insurance
benefit although the policy violated state law. "It's kind of a gray area."

Olson receives health insurance from the school district, as do fellow members
Fred Bahou of Lowell, Chairman Michael Lenzi of Lowell, Paul Morin of Dracut,
and David Tully of Dunstable.

Morin is entitled to health-insurance coverage as a retired teacher.

It is unclear what body gave the School Committee approval to allow health
insurance for committee members as a policy, but Olson said it has always been
the practice.

Under current state general law, in order for a regional school district school
committee to receive compensation, there must be a vote of the city council in a
Plan E form of government and Town Meeting of member communities.

Lowell City Clerk Michael Geary said there is no record that City Council voted
to allow Greater Lowell Tech School Committee members to receive
health-insurance benefits.

Dracut Assistant Town Clerk Jayne Boissonneault said there is no record of a
Town Meeting vote in Dracut.

In Tyngsboro, Town Clerk Joanne Shifres said the same thing -- there is no
record of a Town Meeting vote.

The Dunstable town clerk could not be reached to confirm.

In fiscal 2010, health-insurance coverage for School Committee members cost the
school district $47,360. Two members were enrolled for a 12-month period in
2010, while three members were enrolled for less than one year.

In fiscal 2011, it cost $73,670 for five members to be enrolled for a full year.

So far in fiscal 2012, the school district has spent $54,400 to cover three
members for the full nine months and two members for less than nine months.

School Committee members pay the same rates and premiums as current employees in
the school district: The district pays 85 percent and the member pays 15
percent.

This has some retirees frustrated.

Retirees pay an 80-20 split.

During February's School Committee meeting, retired English teacher Deborah
O'Brien, of Lowell, asked the School Committee in fairness to give retirees the
same assessment as current employees.

She said retirees, who are on a fixed income, shouldn't be treated differently.

"I feel that we should get the same rate as the teachers and that should apply
to the School Committee as well, if they qualify," she said in an interview.

Earlier this year, the School Committee began considering whether or not it
would begin to switch to the Group Insurance Commission after a report was
issued that it would save the district over $1 million in health-insurance
costs.

That discussion ended in February when the School Committee's legal counsel,
Michael Long, issued an opinion obtained by The Sun stating there was
substantial risk if the School Committee members covered by the district's
health-insurance vote on or participate in health-insurance decisions affecting
their benefits because none of the members had publicly made a
conflict-of-interest disclosure.

Long recommended each committee member who receives health insurance go to their
town to receive approval of the health-insurance benefits and that members who
get health insurance state it during a public meeting.

However, if the new policies are passed, the School Committee members will no
longer be eligible to receive health insurance and there will be no apparent
conflict of interest for most of the members.

If School Committee members chose to do so, they could go back to member towns
and ask for a vote in order to be compensated and receive health insurance from
the district.

"I'm not going to make a motion to that effect," said Olson. "I don't know if
another member will."

The newest member of the board, Erik Gitschier, of Lowell, has said publicly
that he doesn't think he is entitled to health insurance from the school
district as a School Committee member because the time put into the committee
doesn't warrant compensation.

Follow Sarah Favot atwww.twitter.com/sarahfavot .

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             303 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                             October 2, 2006 Monday

New health law draws debate

BYLINE: By Jack Dew, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 915 words


CORRECTION SEPT. 30, 2006

Under the state's new health insurance law, employers with more than 10
employees will not face a surcharge if they offer a health insurance plan that
either covers 33 percent of a premium or has participation of 25 percent of
employees. This information was incorrect in an article that ran in yesterday's
Eagle.

PITTSFIELD -- Groundbreaking and historic. Deeply flawed and inadequate.

The new health insurance law that is slowly taking shape in Massachusetts is
both, according to a panel of experts and legislators that met last night in
Pittsfield.

The law is perhaps best understood as a framework to offer health insurance to
most of the state's uninsured. It requires every resident to have adequate
health coverage by July 2007, but it did not create the plans in which people
can enroll, nor did it allocate the funds to pay for those plans.

A new state authority, the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector, will oversee
health plans offered by the state's private insurance companies. People under
the federal poverty line will qualify for free insurance, and those making up to
300 percent of the poverty line will pay reduced premiums.

While the premiums have been set, the plans themselves don't yet exist, and a
raft of details are unresolved. Will there be enough money to fund the
subsidies? Will the uninsured be able to afford the plans? Will the state
penalize those who don't have coverage?

"It's a good bill and an important starting point," but still a work in
progress, said state Rep. Denis Guyer, D-Dalton. "It can be amended, changed,
tweaked. Sections can be taken out. ... We know it is not the end. But it is a
historic first step."

By all accounts, the state's health plan is an innovative way to extend
coverage. It can penalize people who don't obtain insurance by taking away their
state income tax exemption. It can also punish employers with 10 or more
employees if they don't offer an adequate health plan and don't pay 20 percent
of a family plan or 33 percent of an individual plan.

But it is precisely that innovation that worries Ben Day, executive director of
Mass-Care, which is pushing for a single-payer health care system that would
copy the plans used in Canada, England, France, Germany and most industrialized
nations, in which the government pays the medical costs of the people.

"Every time you hear of an innovative health care solution is when it is time to
run for the hills," Day said. "Innovation is the one direction we can go that
won't work."

He listed a series of failures in Maine, Tennessee, Minnesota and others, where
the states tried to fix health insurance without going all the way to a
single-payer system.

They failed, he said, because they did nothing to cut costs in health care and
tried to address the needs of the uninsured without fixing the problem the
insured are already facing of ever-increasing costs for adequate coverage.

Chip Joffe-Halpern, the executive director of North Adams-based Ecu-Health Care,
holds one of the 10 seats on the Connector board, which is putting flesh on the
skeleton of the health care law. Joffe-Halpern said the entire plan is still "a
work in progress."

When one of the roughly 35 people in the audience asked how the state will fund
its share of insurance costs for the poor, Joffe-Halpern was blunt: "It is
anticipated that we will face a crisis in funding, probably in 2009."

Beginning Monday, some people will be able to enroll in the first of the new
health insurance plans. Those enrollments are expected to accelerate in January,
when more plans come on line, and reach full speed in July, when the mandate
kicks in requiring insurance.

That, said state Rep. Christopher Speranzo, D-Pittsfield, will be when the state
gets its first sense of whether the complicated new law will work.

All of the panelists agreed that a single-payer health care system is the
ultimate goal, but there was a clear tension between the idealists who want
single-payer health care and the pragmatists who feel the new law is a step down
that road, helping government, the private sector, the people and the health
care industry figure out how to work together.

Some worried that this first step will be a fatal one for poor patients, who
will lose access to low-cost prescription drugs once they have insurance and
will find the $20 or $30 co-pay too much.

Dr. Michael Kaplan of Lee, a local representative of Mass-Care, said that's one
reason we need single-payer health care now.

"It would no longer be health insurance. It would be health coverage," he said.
"It would take away all the barriers, not just some."

Health insurance highlights

* By July 2007, all residents must have some form of state-approved health
insurance or face tax penalties.

* The state did not create a health insurance program. It is relying on private
insurers to develop plans that will meet its criteria.

* A new state authority, the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector, will vet
health plans and decide whether they are adequate and affordable.

* The Connector will set rates for publicly subsidized health plans.

* Residents making less than $9,804 a year will receive free health insurance.

* Those making between $9,804 and $29,412 a year will pay between $18 a month
and $106 a month for insurance, depending on income. The state will subsidize
the rest of the premiums.

* Those already receiving adequate health insurance through work or government
programs like Medicare do not need to change their plans.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             304 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 13, 2013 Friday

California: Commissioner Jones approves license allowing insurance agents to
assist consumers who purchase health insurance through new health insurance
Exchange

LENGTH: 485  words

DATELINE: Sacramento


Department of Insurance, The State of California has issued the following news
release:

Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones approved Covered California's application for
an insurance business entity license. The license approval will allow licensed
health insurance agents to affiliate with Covered California and sell health
insurance offered on California's new health insurance Exchange. Commissioner
Jones also approved training materials to be used to train agents to transact
health insurance through the Exchange.

"Our approval of Covered California's license will open the doors of the
Exchange to health insurance agents, so they can provide their extensive
knowledge and experience with health insurance to assist consumers and
businesses with purchasing health insurance sold on the Exchange," said
Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones. "Health insurance agents have to meet very
high standards and are subject to fingerprinting, background checks, training,
and licensing, and are subject to criminal investigation, fines and prosecution
if they go astray."

Full implementation of healthcare reform has been a priority for the Department
of Insurance since Commissioner Jones was elected Insurance Commissioner in late
2010. The Department already has implemented numerous provisions of the
Affordable Care Act, providing immediate benefits to Californians and is working
with federal and state partners, including Covered California.

The license approval for Covered California also provides a more efficient way
for licensed agents to help consumers and businesses purchase health insurance
through the Exchange, by allowing the agents to affiliate with the Exchange as
opposed to obtaining appointments from each carrier selling health insurance
products through the Exchange.

Additionally, the Department fast-tracked its approval of Covered California as
an education training provider, thus ensuring that insurance agents completing
Covered California's training receive continuing education credit. Continuing
education is a requirement that all licensed agents must meet, in order to make
sure they are up to date on the latest consumer protections and other insurance
regulations. The Department will also monitor and review the training and
training curriculum used by Covered California.

"The good news for small businesses looking to purchase through the SHOP or
small business Exchange is that agents selling health plans through the Exchange
are subject to our stringent licensing processes," said Commissioner Jones. "Our
licensing process helps to screen out those who the public cannot trust, but if
an agent violates the law or takes advantage of a business buying through the
Exchange, we will use our full enforcement authority to investigate and sanction
the agent, including criminal charges and prosecution, if warranted."


For further information please visit: http://www.insurance.ca.gov

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             305 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Palestine Herald-Press (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 29, 2012 Friday

Health care action prompts mixed local response

BYLINE: Paul Stone, Palestine Herald-Press, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 549 words


June 29--PALESTINE -- Local and East Texas reaction was predictably mixed to
Thursday's narrow Supreme Court decision to uphold the nation's new health care
law, the Affordable Care Act.

The Supreme Court upheld the law by a slim 5-4 margin, with Chief Justice John
Roberts breaking ranks with the court's conservative wing and essentially
casting the deciding vote.

U.S. Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Dallas, a consistent critic of many of President
Barack Obama's policies, said he was "extremely disappointed by today's
decision.

"The president's health care law was essentially and regrettably upheld," said
Hensarling, whose district includes Anderson County. "While I respect the
Court's ruling, I do believe it was wrongly decided. I do not believe the
federal government is empowered by the Constitution to mandate the purchase of
health insurance and I continue to believe that the president's health care law
is bad for our nation's health and bad for our nation's future."

Hensarling was scheduled to appear on CNBC's Squawk Box at 6:30 a.m. today to
discuss the ruling.

"Instead of spending two years engineering a government takeover of health care,
the president should have worked with Congress -- both Democrats and Republicans
-- to enact policies that will grow our economy and create wealth and jobs for
all Americans," the congressman continued.

Anderson County Democratic Party Chairman J. Larry Davis, however, had a vastly
different perspective, saying health insurance companies were more focused  on
profits than patients.

"People say it's health care reform," Davis told the Herald-Press Thursday.
"Health care stays the same. What it is is health insurance reform. They've (
health insurance companies) been jipping and taking advantage of people for too
long."

Davis indicated he believed most people supported the Affordable Care Act with
the exception of health insurance companies "who have spent hundreds of
millions" of dollars attempting to get the historic legislation overturned.

"It's all about money," Davis said. "It's all about health insurance companies
trying to make a profit when they should be more concerned with people's
health."

John Moore, public information officer for Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals and
Clinics which operate throughout much of East Texas, said the public "wants and
deserves better access to health care at more affordable costs" regardless of
Thursday's decision.

"Integrated health care providers who have taken a progressive approach to
solving many of the issues that reform has tried to address are already on a
path of improving quality and finding ways to reduce medical costs," Moore said.
"Trinity Mother Frances has made quality improvement our priority for the last
several years."

Hensarling, meanwhile, indicated he was hoping for a changing of the guard in
November.

"I look forward to the next Congress, where Republicans can work with a new
president to enact step-by-step reforms that are patient centered and will make
health care more affordable for Americans," Hensarling stated.

Paul Stone may be contacted via e-mail at pstone@palestineherald.com

___ (c)2012 the Palestine Herald-Press (Palestine, Texas) Visit the Palestine
Herald-Press (Palestine, Texas) at www.palestineherald.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120629-PQ-Health-care-action-prompts-mixed-local-response-0629-20120629

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PQ


                     Copyright 2012 Palestine Herald-Press


                             306 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Independent Record (Helena, Montana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 15, 2011 Friday

Auditor: Mont. can't design own health insurance exchange

BYLINE: Mike Dennison, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 647 words


July 15--Although federal health officials this week pledged flexibility in
working with states setting up a new Internet clearinghouse to shop for health
insurance, Montana still won't be able to design its own system, state Auditor
Monica Lindeen said Thursday.

Lindeen, the state's insurance commissioner, said since the 2011 Legislature
refused to approve legal authority for Montana to prepare its own
health-insurance exchange, the federal government will be the one setting up
Montana's exchange.

"At this point, there is not much we can do in Montana to build our own
exchange," she said. "It doesn't appear that these (new) rules are going to
change that."

The Republican-controlled Legislature killed efforts by Lindeen, a Democrat, to
create legal authority for Montana to begin designing its own exchange, which
will take effect in 2014.

The exchanges, a key part of the 2010 federal health care reform law supported
by President Barack Obama, will be an Internet shopping point for
health-insurance policies in each state.

The law requires state-based exchanges to be up and running by January 2014,
when all Americans will be required to obtain health coverage, if they don't
already have it. Consumers who want to get federal subsidies for private health
insurance must use the exchanges.

Private insurers will offer policies on the exchanges, and the policies must
meet minimum standards.

U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius unveiled new
insurance-exchange rules on Monday, saying the exchanges "will force insurers to
compete for business on price and quality."

"Today's health-insurance market is broken, especially for small businesses and
individuals who buy on their own," she added. "Today's guidelines will help
states move forward. ... Each state will have the ability to design its own
exchange and partner with our department to meet their goals."

Other HHS officials said the new rules give states more flexibility on deadlines
for creating exchanges, and allow states to take over a federally designed
exchange for their respective state, in the future.

However, they made it clear that if a state isn't prepared to operate its own
exchange, the federal government will have one up and running for consumers by
January 2014.

Lindeen said she has asked HHS officials for a meeting on how the federal
government may work with Montana to set up its health-insurance exchange, and
how it will operate.

"I don't have the answers to those questions yet," she said.

The option for Montana to run an exchange designed by the feds wouldn't allow
the state to take it over until at least 12 months after it starts, Lindeen
added.

"I've always thought that the best option was to have a made-in-Montana
exchange," she said. "In order for us to say we have a plan, you'd have to have
legislative approval and authority. We don't have it."

The 2011 Montana Legislature's Republican majority, which is adamantly opposed
to the federal health-reform law, killed all proposals that gave the state
authority to implement portions of the law.

Sen. Jason Priest, R-Red Lodge, one of the most vocal critics of the federal
law, said Thursday it was a "crappy reform effort" that will lead to higher
costs and less choice for consumers.

"It should be very clear to the voters who broke health care, and it's not
Montana Republicans," he said.

When the law results in higher costs and other negative consequences, "everyone
who wanted to go along with the bill can stand up and say, 'We're happy we went
along,'" Priest said.

To see more of the Independent Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.helenair.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110715-HE-Auditor-Mont-can-t-design-own-health-insurance
-exchange-20110715

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HE


                       Copyright 2011 Independent Record


                             307 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                            January 13, 2014 Monday

Mandatory health insurance for residents and tourists in Dubai

LENGTH: 448 words


Under the law, which will be implemented in three phases from 2014-2016,
employees will be entitled to a basic health-care plan provided directly by
their employers.

The new law making health insurance mandatory for every resident and tourist in
Dubai is being hailed as an admirable and ambitious step towards delivering a
high-quality universal health-care service in the Emirate. But according to law
experts, the transition towards the new system under a single unifying regime
raises challenges that must be addressed if the initiative is to be a success.

Under the law, which will be implemented in three phases from 2014-2016,
employees will be entitled to a basic health-care plan provided directly by
their employers. Insurance companies must not deny anyone coverage under the
basic plan due to pre-existing medical conditions, while employers are
prohibited from passing health insurance costs to staff by deducting from
salaries. Visitors to Dubai will also be required to purchase health insurance
when they arrive.

Eli Hyder, Managing Partner of Bond Lawyers, says, "The new healthcare regime
shows much promise. We have seen already how as a result of comprehensive
health-care reform introduced in Abu Dhabi in 2006, 98% of the Emirate's
residents now enjoy coverage. But as well as emulating the capital's success, it
is important that measures are taken in protecting against health-care price
inflation and abuse of the system, ensuring the city's infrastructure can
support the changes, and keeping all stakeholders - including residents,
employers and tourists - fully informed about their rights and obligations."

Mr. Hyder adds, "One obstacle to overcome is ensuring that all employers are
able to finance their new obligations. By 2014, health-care spending in Dubai is
projected to rise to AED40bn, 11 per cent higher than in 2011. Smaller companies
are being given more time to adjust to the rule changes. Those with more than
1,000 staff must provide health cover first by October of this year while
companies with up to 100 employees have until June 2016 to comply."

Employers are strongly encouraged, but not mandated, to provide insurance cover
for their workers' spouses and dependents, but the ultimate responsibility for
that lies with the employee. Thus another hurdle will be around developing
packages that allow employees to affordably cover their families' health-care
expenses.

On balance, however, Hyder says that the new health-care regime seems to be a
major positive development in the sector and, bolstered by Dubai's already
strong reputation for medical tourism, underlines the Emirate's position as a
burgeoning hub for health-care in the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             308 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 16, 2017 Thursday

Washington: Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act: Congressman Farenthold's
Remarks

LENGTH: 514  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the MP Pete Olson has issued the following news release:



  "This morning the Subcommittee meets to examine H.R. 372, the 'Competitive
Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017.'





 Historically, the business of insurance was viewed as not falling within
interstate commerce and thus subject to state, not federal, regulation.



 In 1944, the Supreme Court effectively reversed itself on this question,
holding that federal antitrust laws were applicable to an insurance
association's interstate activities in restraint of trade.

 Both states and insurers decried the change.



 Congress responded with the McCarran-Ferguson Act, which exempts insurance from
certain federal antitrust laws.



 As we have seen with the recent rejection of both the Anthem-Cigna and
Aetna-Humana mergers, however, federal antitrust laws regarding mergers clearly
still apply.



 The 'Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act' would repeal the
McCarran-Ferguson Act's federal antitrust exemption so that it no longer applies
to the business of health insurance.

 The McCarran-Ferguson Act would remain in effect for other types of insurance,
such as property, casualty and car insurance.



 The issue of repeal has been discussed by the House Judiciary Committee on
several occasions and various iterations of legislation to repeal
McCarran-Ferguson have been offered for decades.

 Within the broader ongoing discussions regarding efforts to repeal and replace
Obamacare, the question of the continued necessity and viability of the
McCarran-Ferguson Act has arisen once more.



 In his plan outlined for reforming Obamacare, newly appointed Health and Human
Services Secretary, Tom Price has called for permitting the sale of insurance
across state lines.

 Similar thinking has also been echoed by President Trump, and is included in
House Republican's 'A Better Way' plan.

 Opening up the market to cross-border sales would increase both competition in
insurance markets and the choice of insurance products offered to consumers.



 The ability to sell insurance across state lines is often tied to discussions
about the McCarran-Ferguson Act.



 In fact, interstate insurance sales are already legal under certain conditions.




 A provision included in Obamacare allows states to establish what are called
'health care choice compacts,' which permit insurers to sell policies to
individuals and small businesses in any state that participates in the compact.

 State regulatory agencies set the rules and minimums insurers must meet to sell
plans in their states.

 Instances of cross-state sales to date, however, have been limited.



 We have excellent panels of witnesses before us today who will help us to
evaluate these issues more fully and place this piece of legislation into the
larger context of the looming health care discussion.

 I look forward to our witnesses' testimony on the merits of H.R. 372, and now
recognize the Ranking Member, Mr. Cicilline, for his opening statement..."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             309 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


              St. Charles County Business Record (St. Charles, MO)

                             January 7, 2008 Monday

New cafeteria plan regs in Missouri seen as deterrent

BYLINE: Kathleen T. Brady

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 451  words


Employers who pay for any portion of their employees' health-care coverage are
now required to offer a cafeteria plan starting Jan. 1.

But employers who don't pay a portion of their employees' health benefits need
not worry; the new regulation doesn't apply to them.

"That's not good policy," said Stan Schroeder, attorney at The Lowenbaum
Partnership and specialist in employee benefits law.

Schroeder was asked to brief AAIM members in December on Missouri's new law,
House Bill 818.

The new law says to employers "'There is an additional hurdle you have to cross
out there if you want to offer health insurance to employees,'" Schroeder said.

If the act simply required everyone to offer a cafeteria plan, that would be
different, he said. In this case, it applies only to employers who want to help
pay for a health plan for their employees, he said, and it's a deterrent to
those employers.

In passing HB 818, the Missouri Legislature tried to emulate the actions of
other states, such as Massachusetts and Rhode Island, which passed laws to
assist workers who did not have health insurance through their employers get
health insurance on their own, Schroeder said.

A cafeteria plan allows employees to purchase health insurance using pretax
payroll deductions. Since the health insurance premium is paid before taxes,
employers' withholding taxes are reduced, Schroeder said. The plan ultimately
lessens the financial burden of health insurance premiums, he said.

"It's a good thing," Schroeder said. But if employers are volunteering to pay
some of their employees' health benefits, why do they need to carry a cafeteria
plan? Adding a cafeteria plan can increase administrative costs for employers,
he said.

The statute implies that employers who want to offer a particular health plan to
their employees can't unless they offer a cafeteria plan as well, Schroeder
said.

The state law is setting a condition under which employers must satisfy before
they can offer a health plan, "and states can't do that," he said.

But, most likely, no one will challenge the law because it has no penalty,
Schroeder said. Supposedly, if the attorney general were to penalize a company
for not carrying a cafeteria plan, he could shut down the company's health
benefits plan, Schroeder said. "Who would do that?"

Most employers offer cafeteria plans anyway, he said.

As an attorney, Schroeder said he is telling his clients that if they don't have
a cafeteria plan, "it's a good idea to set one up because your employees can
save a bunch of money. "

But for the most part, Schroeder predicts a lot of employers will ignore the
statute. "If an employer has a 125 plan in place already, ... no issue, they are
already compliant. "

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Government activity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             310 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Health care reform:A critical step in the right direction

BYLINE: REP. EARL POMEROY and SENS. KENT CONRAD and BYRON DORGAN

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 724 words


The President has signed into law the most comprehensive and significant health
care reform in a generation. This legislation will affect each and every
American and, understandably, has brought out passion and concern from those on
both sides of the political spectrum.

Our decision to support health care reform was not made in haste. Over the last
several years, we have had thousands of conversations with people across North
Dakota, listening to their concerns about skyrocketing health care costs, their
inability to afford or obtain health insurance and about inadequate and unfair
Medicare reimbursements that threaten to literally close our hospitals.

There is no question that health care costs are putting enormous pressure on
families and businesses in North Dakota and across the nation. Continuing the
status quo is not an option. America can do better. And when the President
signed health reform legislation into law, the first step was taken to fix a
broken system.

There has been a lot of misinformation about what this new law will actually
mean to people and families in North Dakota. Many are wondering, "How will this
affect me?" Let's cut through the political rhetoric and look at what is really
in this plan.

First, the new law does not radically change anything. It is not a
government-run health care system. Anyone who tells you that is not telling the
truth. What this law does is create some common-sense rules of the road for the
health insurance industry in an effort to clamp down on abusive practices such
as jacking up premiums or dropping coverage just when people need it most. It
builds on our current private, employer-based system by expanding coverage,
controlling costs, and improving quality, competition and choices for consumers.

Now that this bill is law, insurers will no longer be able to deny North
Dakotans coverage because of pre-existing conditions. Now that this bill is law,
young North Dakotans will be able to stay on their parents' health insurance
until age 26. Now that this bill is law, seniors across North Dakota will
receive assistance to make their prescription drugs more affordable. This is the
immediate impact of health reform.

The bill is especially good for North Dakota because it dramatically improves
Medicare reimbursement rates for our state and will bring hundreds of millions
of dollars in revenue to our hospitals and clinics, allowing them to provide
better care to the patients who depend on them.

This bill is good for North Dakota's small businesses and the people they
employ. Small businesses are the backbone of our state, and we have heard from
so many of them over the last several years that are struggling to offer health
insurance to their employees. Now, our small businesses will immediately have
access to tax credits that will help them provide coverage to their workers.

In the coming years, North Dakotans will see the additional benefits from this
legislation. It will improve the availability and affordability of health
insurance. It will strengthen the Medicare program. It will reduce our nation's
deficit by more than $1 trillion and put our country on a more sustainable
fiscal path.

We understand that many are worried about the cost of health reform. But
according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, health care reform is
fully paid for and will actually reduce the federal deficit by $143 billion over
10 years and nearly $1.3 trillion in the following decade. We understand more
will need to be done to bring down health care costs, and there will be further
changes over time.

Make no mistake there are no silver bullets and this legislation is not perfect.
But this effort is taking us in the right direction. We are reducing deficits.
We are expanding coverage. We are reforming the insurance market, improving
quality, reforming the delivery system. And we are taking steps to put our
nation back on a sound long-term fiscal course.

We have worked hard to make sure this bill is good for North Dakota. And when we
talk to North Dakota's doctors, nurses and hospital administrators, they have
told us time and time again that we simply must pass this bill for the good of
our state. They have told us it will create jobs and lead to better care for
North Dakotans. By supporting this effort, we did the right thing for North
Dakota.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2010 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             311 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

Lebanon Valley Chamber schedules health-care forum

BYLINE: Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 390 words


The Lebanon Valley Chamber of Commerce will host an informational forum on Nov.
8 called "The New Health Care Law - What It Means for Your Business, Your
Employees & You," featuring officials from the health-care industry, the state,
the insurance industry and the business community.

The forum, which will be held at Marabelle's Restaurant & Catering at 1352
Cumberland St. in Lebanon, will begin with registration and a buffet breakfast
at 7:30 a.m., with the program to follow from 8 to 10 a.m. The presenting
sponsor will be the Good Samaritan Health System.

Presenters and panel members for the program will be:

Paula Brussard, senior vice president for The Hospital & Healthsystem
Association of Pennsylvania, who will discuss the impact of the new law on
patient care and access to care as well as the likely impact on hospital and
health-care providers' finances.

Matthew O'Donnell, policy director for the Pennsylvania Health Department, who
has been asked to discuss what some health insurance products are expected to
look like under the new law and how the State Insurance Exchange may be affected
by the law. O'Donnell is expected to review the key dates for the roll-out of
the various provisions of the expansive new health-care law.

Eric Pochas, director of client services for Vantagen, the employee benefits arm
of ParenteBeard. Pochas will discuss what health insurance plans will be
available to employers under the new law and what employees' health plans will
look like under this law.

David Vassilaros, director of health-care reform and regulatory affairs for
Capital Blue Cross, who will discuss how the new law will affect health
insurance rates for employers and employees, how this new law may affect Capital
Blue Cross' ability, as a nonprofit, to function and what a package of health
benefits may look like under the new law.

Along with presentations by the four panel members, the Chamber forum will
include time for questions from members of the audience.

The forum is open to any area businessperson and has a cost of $20 per person
for Chamber members with payment in advance, $25 per person for members without
payment in advance and $35 per person for nonmembers.

Reservations are requested and can be made by calling the Chamber at
717-273-3727 or emailing Donna Eberly-Lehman at the Chamber at
donna@lvchamber.org

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             312 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 13, 2015 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Missouri Republicans take a swing at Obamacare penalties

BYLINE:  By Jordan Shapiro St. Louis Post-Dispatch This report was prepared in
collaboration with Kaiser Health News, an editorially independent program of the
Kaiser Family Foundation.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 439 words


Legislation making its way through the Missouri Capitol would provide tax relief
to consumers who don't have health insurance, but could jeopardize one of the
key tenets of the federal health care overhaul.

The federal health law levies a tax penalty on most Americans if they don't have
health insurance coverage throughout the year. But bills pending in state House
and Senate committees would allow Missourians to deduct that penalty from their
state income tax returns and recoup some of the losses.

This tax season marks the first time many consumers will have to pay a penalty
to the federal government for not having health insurance. Those who went
without coverage in 2014 could owe $95 or 1 percent of their household income,
whichever amount is higher. Next year's penalty - for failing to get health
insurance in 2015 - is the greater of $325 or 2 percent of income.

The sponsor of one of Missouri's bills says it would provide relief for
Missourians hit with those penalties.

"One of the worst injustices of Obamacare is that it penalizes vulnerable people
who can't afford health insurance in the first place," Sen. Kurt Schaefer,
R-Columbia, said when he introduced his bill.

The Internal Revenue Service projects that about 6 million Americans could face
a tax penalty this year under the health care law.

The law's requirement that most Americans purchase insurance or pay a penalty -
known as the individual mandate - remains deeply unpopular. But health policy
experts say the mandate is essential to achieving the law's goal of expanding
affordable insurance coverage to Americans.

If people aren't required to buy insurance, they argue that consumers likely
wouldn't get it until they get sick. That would drive up the cost of premiums
because the only paying customers for insurance companies would be those who
rack up costly medical bills.

Health experts say bills like Schaefer's could throw a wrench into the health
insurance market.

"While it's a temporary good thing for consumers," said Ryan Barker, vice
president of health policy at the Missouri Foundation for Health, "in the long
run that consumer is still living their life without health insurance."

Providing a state tax break for the federal penalty could also discourage
consumers from purchasing health insurance because they don't feel the financial
pressure to do so.

Both the House and Senate bills are essentially identical and have been referred
to the Ways and Means committees of each chamber. The House version is sponsored
by Republican Rep. Caleb Rowden, also of Columbia. Legislative staff has not yet
determined the projected cost of the measure.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The Missouri Capitol stands at dusk on the final day of the 97th
Legislature at the Missouri State Capitol in Jefferson City on Friday, May 16,
2014. Photo by Robert Cohen, rcohen@post-dispatch.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             313 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

Poll finds enduring support for Mass. health law

LENGTH: 902  words


The strong public support for the Massachusetts health care law has not wavered,
despite the well-publicized troubles of the state's new health insurance
website, a new poll has found.
Sixty-three percent of adults said they support the law, which is intended to
ensure that almost everyone has health insurance - the same percentage as in a
similar survey conducted in 2011. Both polls were conducted by the Boston Globe
and the Harvard School of Public Health.


Fewer than half the people questioned in the latest survey knew anything about
the difficulties with the state's health insurance website after it was retooled
to comply with the federal Affordable Care Act, starting last October. The site
often was down, and when it worked, consumers could not determine their
eligibility for government-subsidized coverage and experienced other problems,
forcing some to go without coverage temporarily and use paper workarounds. The
results show that the Massachusetts health insurance law, enacted in 2006, is an
entrenched and accepted part of life in the state, said Robert J. Blendon, a
professor of health policy and political analysis at Harvard and the poll's
codirector.
Given the recent website troubles, Blendon said, "It would have been a real
possibility in my mind that support for the law would have been substantially
lower. . . . People are still incredibly supportive of the law."
Ann Hurd is among the supporters, despite her firsthand experience with the
balky website when she applied for health insurance in December.
"You weren't able to get through to anything," said Hurd, a poll respondent who
agreed to answer follow-up questions from a reporter. "You're just stuck there.
You try like a week or two later and they get you to the next step. Then you
were stuck there."
Eventually, Hurd was able to learn the premium prices, which approached $500 a
month, more than she said she could afford from her pay as a baker. Hurd, 39, of
North Attleborough, joined the shrinking group of Massachusetts residents who
are uninsured.
But still, she approves of the law. "I support it," she said. "I don't support
the price."
Glen Shor, chairman of the board and former executive director of the
Massachusetts Health Connector Authority, the agency carrying out the health
law, said he was not surprised by the survey results.
"The people of Massachusetts have long been supportive of ensuring that all
residents of the Commonwealth are insured. That support has been enduring," he
said, "even during an intensive and raucous political debate over national
health care reform."

The Globe/Harvard poll involved cellphone and landline interviews, in English
and Spanish, with 506 randomly selected Massachusetts adults between May 27 and
June 2.
Close to half of respondents said the law was not having much impact on the
quality of their health care or their ability to see a doctor and pay medical
bills. And of those who did see an effect on those three issues, more said the
law was helping than said it was hurting.
But the answers took a different turn when people were asked about costs. Only
35 percent believed it did not affect health care costs. Those who saw an impact
were split on whether the law was helping or hurting.
Fred Bement, another survey respondent, believes the health care law is to blame
for the rising price of the health insurance he obtains through his employer, a
large defense contractor. "But it's all right," he said.
Bement favors providing health care to everyone. If his higher costs mean "that
the entire populace has access to health care, to reasonable health care, that's
what it means to be part of the Commonwealth," said Bement, 58, of Boxborough.
"We all benefit from combining our wealth."
Blendon, the survey director, said he was surprised that only 46 percent of
respondents knew about the software failures at the Massachusetts Health
Connector, which frustrated thousands of people attempting to obtain or renew
health insurance last fall and early this year.
The administration of Governor Deval Patrick has promised to have a working
website by Nov. 15, the start of enrollment for 2015. But just over half of the
poll respondents who knew of the problems expected them to be resolved by the
fall.
Asked how the Massachusetts law will affect health care in the state in the long
run, 44 percent said they thought it would make things better, while 21 percent
said it would make things worse.
Fifty-five percent of Massachusetts residents - about the same as in 2011 -
support the state law's requirement that everyone have insurance or pay a fine,
a requirement also in the federal Affordable Care Act.
And 57 percent approve of the ACA, compared with 41 percent of the nation
(according to a Pew Research Center/USA Today poll in April). Thirty-four
percent of Massachusetts residents disapproved of the federal law, compared with
55 percent nationally.
But ACA proponents should not pin their hopes on the Massachusetts experience as
a sign that national public opinion will eventually turn, Blendon said. In
Massachusetts, the health care law always had the support of more than half the
state's residents.

Not surprisingly, support for the Massachusetts law varies by party affiliation,
with 77 percent of Democrats, 60 percent of independents and 49 percent of
Republicans in favor. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             314 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           April 14, 1993, Wednesday

NATION IN BRIEF Maryland adopts health care reform

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 8

LENGTH: 623 words


Maryland's governor Tuesday signed a law designed to curb rising health care
costs and to make health insurance more affordable. On the national level, a
presidential task force headed by first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton has been
drafting a proposal for health care reform, which the White House said Tuesday
that it hoped to unveil by mid-May.

"Maryland is one the leading states that are attempting . . . health care reform
in the absence of national reform," said Carl Volpe, senior policy analyst for
health care reform for the National Governors' Conference. The law, signed by
Gov. William Donald Schaefer, will create a state health care commission to
establish a basic care benefits plan for insurers and regulate health care fees.

CRIME

'MY BABY, MY BABY!' A Maryland woman who was dragged to her death when two men
commandeered her car with her child inside had screamed "My baby, my baby!" as
the vehicle sped off, a witness testified. Earlier, the woman's husband
tearfully testified how he took a videotape that prosecutors say shows the two
men who killed her moments later. Kevin Brown, a truck driver from Ellicott
City, Md., said he was driving by when when he saw the victim, Pam Basu,
struggling with two men at an intersection. Mr. Brown said he got out of the
truck and saw one of the two kicking at Mrs. Basu from the passenger side of the
car. The other man was on the driver's side trying to pull her out. Mr. Brown
said he ran back to his truck to get a chain to use as a weapon. As he returned,
the men drove off with Mrs. Basu dangling from the driver's side.

PEOPLE

BON VOYAGE II: Former President George Bush and his family left Houston aboard a
Kuwaiti jetliner in a second attempt to get to the Persian Gulf emirate. On
Monday, his Kuwait Airways flight returned to Houston and made a forced landing
about an hour after its departure when the crew discovered wing damage. Another
Kuwait Airways Boeing 747 was brought in, and crews worked feverishly putting in
new carpet, taking out some seats and installing couches. "It's going to be a
wonderful trip," Mr. Bush said as he was about to board the aircraft Tuesday. He
is to be honored in the emirate for his leadership during the Persian Gulf War,
which liberated Kuwait from Iraqi occupation. He is being accompanied by his
wife, Barbara, and other relatives on a three-day visit.

ADVENTURE

UP TO THE CHALLENGE: Two men who are paralyzed from the waist down succeeded in
becoming the first paraplegics to scale California's Sierra Nevada on
cross-country skis. Mark Wellman, 32, of Truckee, Calif., and Jeff Pagels, 44,
of Green Bay, Wis., used small wheelchairs with skis on them and propelled
themselves using ski poles. They began their 50-mile trip across Yosemite
National Park's back country Saturday from just above Lee Vining, near the
park's eastern entrance. The highest point they crossed was 10,850 feet. They
had hoped to complete the trek Monday at Crane Flat at Yosemite's western
entrance, but settled for Tuesday afternoon's finish because of strong
headwinds, park spokeswoman Lisa Dapprich said. They were accompanied on the
trip by two ski patrolmen for safety.

AVIATION

AMERICAN JET'S LANDING GEAR COLLAPSES: The landing gear of a DC-10 passenger jet
collapsed moments after the plane touched down today at Dallas-Fort Worth
International Airport, officials said. All 202 people on board American Airlines
Flight 102 were evacuated, and three people suffered minor injuries, said
airline spokeswoman Karen Cook said. The plane, arriving from Honolulu, landed
during heavy showers at 7 a.m. It wasn't immediately clear if the problems
developed while the plane was in the air or after it touched downon the runway.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH931130054

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                             315 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

REINING IN HIGH COSTS SHOULD BE NEXT BIG THING IN HEALTH CARE

BYLINE:  by ROBERT KRAIG

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 702 words


Endless scheming by conservative politicians to sabotage the Affordable Care Act
is distracting us from one of the most vexing problems facing Wisconsin:
excessive health care costs.

Conservatives have made health care the Northern Ireland of American politics, a
bloody and perpetual conflict where no one wins. We are frozen in time by
conservative intransigence, fighting the fight of 2010 over and over again,
rather than moving forward to tackle out-of-control health care costs.

Health care hyperinflation matters a great deal. To be priced out of health care
is as damaging to freedom as the outright denial of coverage or access to
treatment.

As high as health care costs are across the United States, twice as high as any
other advanced industrial country, the situation is even worse in Wisconsin. The
2016 Wisconsin Health Insurance Cost Ranking Report, recently released by
Citizen Action of Wisconsin, documents the scale of the problem. Since 2000,
health insurance premiums and deductibles in Wisconsin have more than tripled,
increasing by 216 percent statewide. Even relatively lower-cost Madison has
suffered a 170 percent increase in premiums and deductibles.

Most of the health insurance hyperinflation in Wisconsin took place before the
Affordable Care Act. Since the law was enacted, health insurance inflation has
slowed down, but premiums and deductibles remain high.

This is not surprising because the health care law was designed to be a first
step, focusing more on coverage than cost. The law guaranteed for the first time
that every American citizen has somewhere to go to get quality, affordable
health care, no matter what. It outlawed immoral insurance industry practices
such as denying coverage to cancer patients and others with pre-existing
conditions, or throwing young adults off their parents' policies. The health
insurance law made important steps on health care costs such as capping
excessive health insurance industry profits, outlawing junk insurance policies
that left families unprotected from huge medical bills when facing a serious
illness, and providing generous tax credits to make insurance more affordable.

States that are moving forward and building on the Affordable Care Act are
making more progress lowering health care costs than Wisconsin, whose partisan
conservative leaders are obsessed with going back to the days when health
insurance discrimination was legal. A recent report by Citizen Action of
Wisconsin found that Minnesota has individual health insurance rates that are on
average 46 percent lower than Wisconsin's.

Now that the Affordable Care Act is here to stay, the next stages of health care
reform have become a state issue. Although progressives in the Legislature don't
have the power to pass bills, they do have the power to set the agenda. The
conservatives who dominate the Legislature should be forced to take up-ordown
votes on common-sense health care cost reforms, so that voters can hold them
accountable in the 2016 elections.

There are four very popular initiatives leading states are already doing to
moderate costs that progressive legislators can advance in Wisconsin early this
year.

First, we can push for comprehensive rate review, forcing health insurance
companies to justify excessive rate increases, as utilities have had to do for
over 100 years. A bill was introduced by Sen. Chris Larson and Rep. Deb Kolste,
but has not even been scheduled for a hearing.

Second, we can hold prescription drug companies accountable, outlawing price
gouging for high-value drugs needed to manage chronic diseases or treat
life-threatening illnesses.

Third, we can crack down on "surprise medical bills," where patients get hit
with unexpected charges not covered by insurance.

Fourth, we can take the hundreds of millions of federal dollars for BadgerCare
that Gov. Walker is leaving on the table. Forcing people to remain uninsured
increases uncompensated medical care, spiking health insurance costs for
everyone else.

In 2016, the people of Wisconsin deserve better than the endless partisan
warfare over the health care law. Wisconsin progressives need to make the case
for building on the progress already made by the Affordable Care Act.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Robert Kraig is executive director of Citizen Action of Wisconsin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             316 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            August 30, 1996, Friday

YOUR MONEY MATTERS: WEEKEND REPORT: HEALTHY SWITCH: NEW LAW EASES JOB-HOPS,
SOMETIMES

BYLINE: BY NANCY ANN JEFFREY

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 3

LENGTH: 170 words


Your Money Matters column discusses Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act, which guarantees health insurance coverage for millions of
Americans who switch or leave their jobs; finds that while the law offers
important protections to certain workers, it is of little or no help to many
others; notes that the law does not require employers to start providing health
insurance; accompanying article looks at the experiment in medical-savings ac
counts that begins in 1997; cartoon (M)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Cartoon

              Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             317 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why More People Might Get Health Insurance From Work

BYLINE: By MARGOT SANGER-KATZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEW HEALTH CARE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 799 words


In an earnings call last week, Walmart announced that its workers were signing
up for health insurance en masse. The news was bad for the company's
shareholders, since the added $500 million it will cost to cover them will eat
into expected profits. But it also means that many more low-income families have
health insurance now than did last year.

The change didn't come because of a more generous company policy. Walmart has
long offered health insurance to its full-time workers for relatively low
premiums -- about $18 every two weeks for its lowest-paid workers. It came
because many more workers decided to take advantage of the offer.

It's early yet to be sure of a strong trend, but the Walmart experience mirrors
evidence from early polls and the historical experience of Massachusetts, which
enacted a law similar to the Affordable Care Act in 2006. More people may be
signing up for employer-based coverage than did before.

When we talk about the effect of the Affordable Care Act on health insurance, we
often focus on people who were shut out of the market before, either because a
prior illness made insurance inaccessible to them or because a high premium put
coverage out of their financial reach. What Walmart's experience reminds us is
that there were also uninsured people who simply chose not to buy coverage
before there was a law requiring them to do so. Now they may be changing their
minds.

This increase, if it is permanent, is going to cost employers money. But it
illustrates how the Affordable Care Act is set up to build on the country's
existing insurance system rather than tear it down. The law doesn't just create
new public insurance programs. It also includes incentives designed to get more
people enrolled in employer health coverage.

The law's best-known and least-liked provision -- the ''individual mandate'' --
is probably causing the trend. For the first time, people must buy insurance
this year or be subject to a tax penalty. In Massachusetts, a similar
requirement changed the employer-sponsored insurance market in two ways, said
Sharon Long, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, who has studied the state's
experience.

First, it encouraged more workers who were already being offered health
insurance to take it -- an effect roughly analogous to what Walmart is
experiencing. Second, it actually induced more employers to offer coverage to
their workers -- because, Ms. Long believes, workers began to demand insurance
once they were required to have it. Over all, the percentage of Massachusetts
residents with employer-based insurance went to 65.6 percent in 2008, when the
health care law was up and running, up from 61 percent in 2006.

The first effect should apply nationwide. The second may be a quirk of the
Massachusetts labor market, where health reform was broadly popular, and most
businesses tend to pay high wages. Estimates from the Congressional Budget
Office suggest that some small employers that currently offer insurance may stop
doing so now that their workers have other options. Some analysts of the law
(and many of its critics) forecast widespread employer ''dumping'' of workers
into new health insurance marketplaces, but there's little evidence so far that
this is happening. The law includes a requirement that employers offer coverage
to their workers or pay a fine, but the Obama administration has postponed its
start.

So far, at least, more people seem to be getting health insurance from their
jobs than did last year. A recent analysis of Gallup polling data, published in
The New England Journal of Medicine, found that while most newly insured people
got coverage through Medicaid or new state insurance marketplaces, about 2
percent of the increase was coming from other sources. The employer market is
not the only possible source of that rise, but Dr. Benjamin Sommers, a professor
at the Harvard School of Public Health who wrote the paper with colleagues, said
it suggests movement in employer coverage. Recent surveys from the Urban
Institute also show an increase in the number of people reporting employer-based
coverage, Ms. Long said, though the change was small enough that it could be a
result of sampling errors.

A pair of employer surveys from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York found that
employers were expecting ''a somewhat larger proportion of employees, on net,
would be covered than in the past.''

Dave Ostendorf, a managing director at Towers Watson, a benefits consulting
firm, said his customers were seeing small but real increases in the number of
people they're insuring through employer plans this year. It's early to be sure,
he said, but he's seeing indications that employer coverage is growing.

''The individual mandate is new, and that's something that people are aware
of,'' he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/21/upshot/why-more-not-fewer-people-might-start-g
etting-health-insurance-through-work.html

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Walmart employees at a meeting in Fayetteville, Ark., in June.
The company  announced that many more of its workers had signed up for its
health insurance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                             318 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Idaho Business Review (Boise, ID)

                           January 2, 2013 Wednesday

Commentary: The best deal for Idaho and its citizens

BYLINE: Alex LaBeau

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 611  words


We appreciate Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter making a tough, but practical decision
the week of Dec. 10 when he chose to develop a state-based health insurance
exchange. We respect his determination to get the best deal for Idaho and its
citizens.

Governor Otter is no fan of the federal health care law, going as far as to
challenge the law in front of the U.S. Supreme Court. His resolve to do what is
right for Idaho is unquestioned. That makes his decision to support a
state-based exchange more powerful. Governor Otter said it best: a health
insurance exchange would be coming to Idaho whether we built one or not. In the
face of this reality, he knew it would be irresponsible to willingly surrender a
role for Idaho to the federal government in shaping the law's impact on our
citizens and employers.

A health insurance exchange is essentially an online marketplace, where
individuals and businesses can shop for and purchase health insurance coverage.
These exchanges will allow people to compare prices and benefits before buying,
thus creating a competitive market for insurance policies. We knew after the
2012 election and the US Supreme Court's ruling that health care reform
including health care exchanges was going to be enforced regardless. But we had
a choice: build one for Idaho or let the federal government do the job for us.

I spent several months on Governor Otter's health insurance exchange working
group studying this issue, and our research showed us that Idaho would be best
served if we took control of this job ourselves. The research made it clear that
we could take the time to build a health insurance exchange that would work for
our marketplace and Idaho citizens. If we dodged the job, the federal government
would do it for us. I think most Idahoans would agree that any operation built
by Idaho will be of superior benefit to this state than any bureaucracy imposed
on us by the federal government. Ultimately, our working group voted 10-2 to
endorse the direction that Governor Otter has chosen.

A state-based exchange will help Idahoans maintain as many options as possible
in the creation and operation of this important function. To do anything
different could have a damaging effect on Idaho's economy. We all benefit from
our state's policies that are driven by Idaho values and priorities. I'm
confident that a health insurance exchange built by Idahoans will be of higher
value to Idahoans than anything built and operated by the federal government. We
cannot just ignore the reality that this is the law of the land. Although there
are still questions, ensuring Idaho has more control in this process is the
pragmatic and sensible approach.

The exchange now needs the approval of the Idaho Legislature, and they will
proceed with their own due diligence on the issue. And, undoubtedly, there will
be other opinions that deserve respect. Certainly, there are aspects of the
federal law that make many in Idaho cringe. However, in reality, this law will
not be repealed. The only way to have a positive impact is to direct Idaho's
future ourselves as much as possible. I am very grateful to Governor Otter for
leading the way.

These and other factors are why IACI joined more than 400 individuals,
businesses and trade organizations in the Idaho Health Exchange Alliance, a
coalition that encouraged Governor Otter to make this important decision in a
way that benefits Idaho. For more information about the Idaho Health Exchange
Alliance and a state-based insurance exchange, go to www.keepitinidaho.com.

Alex LaBeau is president of the Idaho Association of Commerce and Industry

© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             319 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            December 19, 2010 Sunday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

PUBLIC FORUM

SECTION: OPINIONATED/EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 645 words


'No' according to Constitution

The proper question is: Can health insurance be mandated? The answer is no.
There is nothing in the Constitution that even suggests that Congress has the
power to require Americans to purchase something. What's next? A mandate to
purchase a car from GM - Government Motors? After decades of Congress bypassing
and blatantly violating the Constitution, it would be refreshing to see Congress
actually restrained by it as the Framers intended.

- GREGG FRAZER

Castaic

Mandate provides accountability

What is unconstitutional is allowing this judge, Henry E. Hudson, to rule on the
health insurance mandate when he owns stock in a firm that is against health
care reform. This judge has to be judged. To conform to righteousness this judge
has to recuse himself from the case.

Now, to get to the question at hand: Why do we mandate car insurance in order to
drive a car? I don't think to mandate a person have health insurance is a bad
thing. It will keep them healthy, wealthy and wise. You listen to your doctor
when he or she mandates your health regimen. You pay your taxes when the IRS
mandates the income tax law and you surely obey when your staff sergeant
mandates his or her commands. Mandates are there for your safety and well being.

- LOIS EISENBERG

Valencia

Government overstepped

What is most interesting to me regarding this ruling is the mandate for
individual affirmative action regarding a constitutional right. If the purchase
of health insurance is mandated by government, does that mean one must possess a
gun because we have the right to bear arms? Or, does one have to belong to a
religious group because we have religious freedom.

Although not a constitutional scholar, it is my understanding that the
Constitution states what we can do and not what we must do. It appears that the
government has overstepped its authority.

- KATHERINE TODD

West Hills

Get rid of insurance companies

The question should not be: "Should health insurance be mandated?" It should be:
"Why do we tolerate health insurance companies at all?" No other country does.
The majority of people agree we need single-payer health care. That means
Medicare for all, just like Great Britain, Canada, France, Australia, and all
other western nations.

The U.S. pays twice as much per person as any other nation on earth, yet we're
ranked 37th in health care. That's because the insurance companies siphon off 31
percent of our premiums for their own administration expenses and fat-cat
salaries. They make their money by denying as many claims as they can.

- AL SHEAHEN

Sherman Oaks

Mandate hurts impoverished

Yes, the health care provision is unconstitutional. The Democrats solved the
problem of being too poor to afford health insurance by making it illegal to be
too poor to afford health insurance. They fine you if you're too poor to pay for
it. They sure must love poor people because they keep making more of them.

- WILMA BENNETT

West Hills

Less mind-boggling health plan

Allowing one mandate opens us to future mandates. Moreover, we now know that the
cost of ObamaCare is far greater than claimed. Instead of forcing the purchase
of unaffordable comprehensive policies, government should encourage
participation by requiring insurers to split their policies in two. One will be
an inexpensive ($200 per year) policy limited to the public health services that
every American benefits from (maternal care, neonatal care and vaccinations).

Next, levy a $220 tax on every adult 19 to 64. Some $20 goes to purchase private
policies for those under the poverty level. The other $200 will be refunded as a
tax credit to the 80 percent who are already insured. Their net cost is only
$20. The impoverished uninsured will gain access to standard care at no cost.
Most of the remaining uninsured will voluntarily become insured to get their tax
credit.

- ROGER A. FORSYTH

Bel Air

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the editor Health mandate QUESTION OF THE WEEK Should health
insurance be mandated?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             320 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                              June 21, 2010 Monday

Explaining The Small Business Health Care Tax Credit

BYLINE: Taxing Matters / Patti S. Spencer

SECTION: B; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 669  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


The Small Business Health Care Tax Credit is intended to help small businesses
and small tax-exempt organizations afford the cost of providing health insurance
covering their employees. This credit was included in the Health Care
Legislation, The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, passed by Congress
and signed by President Obama on March 23, 2010.

The credit, which is contained in Section 45R of the Internal Revenue Code, is
effective for 2010 and subsequent years. It is available to small employers that
provide health care coverage to their employees and that meet certain
requirements.

A qualified employer must have fewer than 25 full-time equivalent employees
(FTEs) for the tax year, the average annual wages of its employees for the year
must be less than $50,000, and the employer must pay the premiums under a
"qualifying arrangement." A tax-exempt organization can be a qualified employer
but special rules apply in calculating the credit for a tax-exempt qualified
employer.

In determining the number of the employer's FTEs, some employees are excluded.
Self-employed individuals, including partners and sole proprietors, 2 percent
shareholders of an S corporation, and 5 percent owners of the employer are not
treated as employees for purposes of this credit.

There is also a special rule to prevent a business from receiving the credit for
the owner and some of the owner's family members. For this purpose, a family
member is defined as a child (or descendant of a child); a sibling or
stepsibling; a parent (or ancestor of a parent); a stepparent; a niece or
nephew; an aunt or uncle; or a son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law,
mother-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.

The credit is initially available for any tax year beginning in 2010, 2011, 2012
or 2013. Qualifying health insurance for claiming the credit for this first
phase of the credit is health insurance coverage purchased from an insurance
company licensed under state law.

For tax years beginning after 2013, the credit is only available to an eligible
small employer that purchases health insurance coverage for its employees
through a state exchange and is only available for two years.

Eligible employers can claim the credit as part of the general business credit.
The maximum credit goes to smaller employers - those with 10 or fewer full-time
equivalent (FTE) employees - paying annual average wages of $25,000 or less. The
credit phases out as company size and average wages increase.

For tax years 2010 to 2013, the maximum credit is 35 percent of premiums paid by
an eligible small business. The credit is completely phased out for employers
that have 25 FTEs or more or that pay average wages of $50,000 per year or more.
In addition, the employer is entitled to an ordinary and necessary business
expense deduction for the amount of the employer contribution to the purchase of
health insurance in excess of the dollar amount of the credit.

Small businesses eligible to receive the credit can use it not only for the cost
of regular health insurance but also for add-on dental and vision coverage.

If an employer pays only a portion of the premiums for coverage provided to
employees under the arrangement (with employees paying the rest), the amount of
premiums counted in calculating the credit is only the portion paid by the
employer.

In addition, the amount of an employer's premium payments that counts for
purposes of the credit is capped by the premium payments the employer would have
made under the same arrangement if the average premium for the small group
market in the state (or an area within the state) in which the employer offers
coverage were substituted for the actual premium.

The average premium for the small group market in a state is determined by the
Department of Health and Human Services. The average premium for the small group
market in Pennsylvania for the 2010 taxable year is $5,029 for employee only (or
single) coverage and $12,471 for family coverage.

Patti@spencerlawfirm.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.


                             321 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday

Health insurance appeals expected

BYLINE: By Hillary Chabot, Eagle Boston Bureau

SECTION: STATE; Headlines

LENGTH: 404 words


BOSTON -- State officials are girding for an onslaught of appeals when the
penalties for the state's landmark health insurance law come into play next
month.

Nearly half of uninsured residents who filed for an exemption already have
received a pass, but state officials have no idea how many exemption requests
they might be facing next year.

"Will it require more resources? Yes. We're determining how many additional
people we might need at this point," said Jamie Katz, general counsel for the
Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority.

The new law requires residents to get health insurance by Jan. 1 or lose their
personal tax exemption in 2008 -- about $219 for most people. If residents do
not sign up by the end of 2008, they will have to pay half the cost of the most
affordable health insurance plan next time they file their taxes.

So far, 46 residents have sought exemptions, and 19 of those have been approved.
Of the 27 applications denied, one resident appealed.

The board voted to make it easier for those looking for exemptions to file
through their taxes by holding the penalty fees until the exemption request is
approved or rejected.

Board members still are considering how many new people to hire to cope with the
exemptions. Although officials suggested that 60,000 people would qualify for a
waiver earlier this year, Katz said exemption requests could come pouring in
from any number of those still uninsured.

About 300,000 people have signed on to health insurance since the law went into
effect July 1, but there could be up to 300,000 additional uninsured residents,
according to estimates by state officials.

Board members also discussed an upcoming new contract with companies that
provide Commonwealth Care, a state-subsidized insurance program.

The new contract could eat a huge hole in the upcoming budget, considering the
large number of uninsured residents still in the state. The health care law
already has taken a sizable bite out of the current budget, said Senate Ways and
Means Chairman Steven C. Panagiotakos, D-Lowell.

"It's estimated to cost us from $150 million to $300 million," Panagiotakos
said. "The costs increase every year, so it's got to increase somewhat."

He said the cost of the new health care law and the faltering state lottery will
be two of the biggest factors in the budget.

"Yellow lights are all over the place, and we're going to have to heed them,"
Panagiotakos said.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             322 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 3, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NEW LAW IS SOUGHT FOR CARE; COVERAGE FOR ALL IN U.S. IS URGED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 783 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The health-insurance industry is calling for a new law requiring coverage for
all Americans, spelling out basic benefits and trying to contain health-care
costs.  The proposal would require hospitals and doctors to charge all their
patients virtually the same rates for the same service.  The board of directors
of the Health Insurance Association of America, representing 270 commercial
insurers, adopted a policy statement Wednesday arguing that "the insurance
industry itself needs reform." The industry often has been described as an
obstacle to change in the nation's health-care system. But with the new
proposal, to be announced formally today, the industry signals its willingness
to accept sweeping changes, many of them similar to those proposed by
President-elect Bill Clinton.  For more than a year, the insurers have been
denouncing proposals for a government-run program of national health insurance
that would minimize the role of private insurers.  Carl J. Schramm, president of
the association, said Wednesday, "This is probably the only way you preserve the
private health-insurance industry.  It's plain-out enlightened self-interest."
The insurers, like Clinton, endorsed the idea of universal coverage, which would
be mandated by federal law, along with new measures to control costs, including
a larger role for the government in supervising fees charged by doctors and
hospitals. But the insurers did not support Clinton's proposal for an annual
limit on all health spending, public and private.  The insurers' new position
would limit the amount of tax-free health benefits that employees could get from
their employers. The proposal would require employees to pay a tax on the value
of health insurance exceeding the standard package of benefits. This proposal is
noteworthy because companies rarely propose a new tax on their own goods and
services. Revenue from the health-insurance tax would be used to help finance
additional coverage for poor people.  The industry's new proposal, set forth in
a discussion paper adopted unanimously Wednesday by the board of the
association, has four main elements: The government - through unspecified tax
incentives for employers and tax penalties for consumers who do not purchase
insurance - would require all Americans to buy "an essential package" of health
benefits. If the government fails to achieve universal coverage in this way,
then "it may become necessary to require employers to help finance such
coverage," the insurance industry said.  The government would help define the
essential package of benefits. Private insurers would agree to provide the
standard coverage, regardless of a person's medical history.  The open-ended
federal subsidy for health insurance would be curtailed. If employers bought
insurance covering more than the essential package of benefits for their
employees, the premiums paid for that extra coverage would be treated as income
to the employees, and they would have to pay income tax on it. The core benefits
would still be tax-free.  The government would work with insurers and providers
of care to reduce the immense variation in payments to doctors and hospitals.
The Health Insurance Association is one of many business groups that have
offered to cooperate with Clinton since his election. Many of these groups
previously opposed overhauling the health-care system, but now say they see
major changes inevitable and want to help shape the results to their liking.  In
Little Rock, Ark., Judith Feder, health-policy coordinator for the Clinton
transition team, described the new proposal as "a major turnaround" for members
of the health-insurance industry. "It suggests they are willing to participate
in the process of health-care reform. They seem to be demonstrating a commitment
to universal coverage and cost containment, which we've not seen before." The
insurers are eager to promote competition in the health-care market, but they
recognize that a decade of competition has not restrained the growth in medical
prices, now rising twice as fast as other consumer prices.  The association has
not decided on the proper balance between regulation and free-market
competition, one of the most delicate issues in any plan to revamp the
health-care system.  The federal government already has established fee
schedules for doctors and hospitals under Medicare, and some private insurers
have begun to use similar price lists.  In January, President George Bush
seriously considered taxing a portion of the health benefits received by some
workers. But he abandoned the idea after Republican members of Congress warned
him that such a tax would cause a political uproar.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             323 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday
                                  All Editions

Health care facts

SECTION: Pg. A8

LENGTH: 265 words


In his May 21 letter to the BDN, Norman Minsky asks if the map used in a May 13
BDN front-page article regarding the impact of health reform bill LD 1333 on
rural Maine is "correct" and "true."

Unfortunately, the map was pulled from a 2007 State Bureau of Insurance report
having little to do with the new health insurance reform law.

The new law does not force people in rural areas to travel outside their local
area to receive medical care. Speaking hypothetically, suppose I'm having
surgery in a local hospital for a torn kneeligament for which my health
insurance covers 85 percent of the cost. My insurance provider must pay for the
services received from my local provider. Medical insurance providers are free
to offerincentives to their policyholders to seek medical care at a distance,
but it's optional.

Why would an insurance company offer such an incentive? Under the new health
insurance law, my insurance provider can notify me that a nonlocal hospital has
a better track record for torn ligamentsurgeries at a better price. If I'm
willing to have my surgery done there, my insurance provider will cover 95
percent of the cost. Ultimately, the choice is mine alone.

As it relates to premiums for older people, the new law conforms to the
age-based pricing requirements to the federal Affordable Care Act (Obamacare).

For answers to frequently asked questions about Maine's new health insurance
reform law, email a legislative aide at dawn.croteau@legislature.maine.gov or
download the answers at http://www.maine.gov/legis/senategop/

Sen. Nichi Farnham

Bangor

Sen. Richard Rosen

Buckspor

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Bangor Daily News


                             324 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 23, 2017 Thursday

Washington: Thompson Votes to Pass Important Health Insurance Reforms

LENGTH: 391  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the MP Glenn Thompson has issued the following news
release:



 U.S. Representative Glenn 'GT' Thompson today voted in favor of two bills that
will make important reforms to the healthcare industry.





 The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act will reduce healthcare costs for
consumers by ensuring competition in the health insurance industry.



 The Small Business Health Fairness Act will make it easier for small businesses
to promote a healthy workforce and offer more affordable healthcare coverage.



 "These bills both make important reforms that will encourage innovation when it
comes to coverage, allowing for association health plans across state lines,"
Thompson said. "I was pleased to vote in favor of these commonsense proposals,
which will continue to improve our health care system."



 ABOUT THE BILLS



 H.R 372 - Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act



 H.R. 372 would apply federal antitrust laws to health insurance providers to
increase competitiveness in the healthcare industry.



     Currently, under the McCarran-Ferguson Act, health insurance providers are
exempt from federal antitrust regulations and are regulated at the state level.

     H.R. 372 removes the exemption for the business of health insurance and
applies uniform federal antitrust laws.

     By repealing the exemption, competition will increase in the health care
market and help lower the costs for consumers.



 **



 H.R. 1101 - Small Business Health Fairness Act



 H.R. 1101 improves access to affordable healthcare coverage for small business
employees.



     The Affordable Care Act's costs and mandates have reduced options for
employees to get affordable health care coverage.

     Large businesses and unions are able to negotiate for more affordable
health care through a qualified group health plan under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (ERISA).

     H.R. 1101 creates association health plans (AHPs) which will allow small
businesses to band together across state lines and negotiate for lower health
care costs for their employees.

     AHPs will be able to increase the bargaining power of small businesses to
purchase health insurance and level the playing field with large businesses and
unions.

     The bill also relieves small businesses from costly state-mandated benefit
laws that make coverage prohibitively expensive.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             325 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Montana Standard (Butte)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday

Skees vs. Lindeen for state auditor - Another race focusing on 'Obamacare'

BYLINE: Mike Dennison, The Montana Standard, Butte

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1011 words


Oct. 03--HELENA -- In this year's electoral battle for Montana state
auditor/insurance commissioner, the race is yet another contest where the
candidates are sparring over federal health-care reform, aka "Obamacare."

"The vast majority of Montanans are against Obamacare; I am anti-Obamacare,"
says Republican Derek Skees, who is challenging Democratic incumbent Monica
Lindeen. "Every time she comes out and says she's for Obamacare, and (she's)
going to implement it, Montanans are going to say, 'That's horrible -who's
running against her?'"

Lindeen, a Democrat elected to the post in 2008, says this year's race is about
more than health insurance -- but is happy to talk about what she's done, or
tried to do, regarding the federal health law.

The law invokes many new requirements for health insurance, and Lindeen says
she's tried to ensure that Montana retains its own regulatory authority over
insurance, for the good of consumers.

Lindeen asked the 2011 Legislature to authorize creation of a state-based,
Internet sales market for health insurance called an exchange, and to give the
state authority to review health-insurance rate increases. If the state doesn't
take those steps, federal health regulators will do them instead.

The Republican-led Legislature, of which Skees is a member, rejected those
proposals.

"What I've really worked to do is make sure we maintain our state authority as
the feds are implementing the Affordable Care Act," she says. "My opponent, and
others like him, said no."

The federal health-care law has become a flash point in this race -- just as it
has in many statewide races this year -- as Republicans try to capitalize on the
unpopularity of the law in Montana.

In a poll last month by Lee Newspapers of Montana, 53 percent of Montanans said
they don't support the law, while 40 percent did.

Skees, a building consultant and state representative from Whitefish, and
Lindeen, a former state legislator and who helped found the state's first major
Internet provider, are vying for the oddly named office of state auditor.

The auditor regulates the insurance and investment industries in Montana, and
Lindeen prefers to call herself "commissioner of securities and insurance."

In seeking re-election, Lindeen notes that her office has recovered more than
$200 million for Montanans victimized by investment scams and forced insurers to
pay $15 million in claims that they initially denied.

She says she's supported every oil, gas and coal lease before the state Land
Board and has pushed to expand a state program providing subsidies and tax
credits for small businesses that offer health insurance for employees.

"I'm running on my record as state auditor, and all that I've been able to
accomplish," she says.

Lindeen also says if she's re-elected, she'll again ask the Legislature to give
her office the power to review health-insurance rate increases. If the state has
that authority, it can negotiate down increases deemed "unreasonable," she says.

Skees says he's the right person for the job because he has no connection to the
insurance or securities industry, and therefore can be a strong consumer
advocate. He also says he wants to unleash more competition, by getting rid of
unnecessary regulations and insurance mandates.

But, most of all, Skees says he'll do everything he can to fight "Obamacare,"
and that if it's not repealed, he'll drive hard bargains with the feds on
implementation and will push for other reforms like selling health insurance
across state lines and limiting medical liability.

He says the 2011 Legislature was right to reject the health-insurance exchange,
because now the feds are scrambling to set one up in Montana, and will be more
willing to bargain with the state on what the exchange looks like in 2014.

"We should negotiate from a position of strength, which is what we did," he
says. "Thirty states are still fighting (the law). ... I'll be a voice
nationally to rally folks to fight the federal government."

Lindeen says Skees "doesn't know what he's talking about," that the feds are
already working on the exchange, and that it must meet certain requirements that
can't be compromised away.

"You can't just slam the door and think that you'll have a position to bargain
from," she says.

About the candidates ...

Monica Lindeen

Political party: Democrat.

Office sought: State auditor/insurance commissioner.

Office salary: $86,018.

Age: 50.

Birth date and place: May 16, 1962, Ogden, Utah.

Home: Helena.

Occupation: State auditor.

Family: Husband David, one daughter and two stepsons.

Education: Shepherd High School graduate, 1980; bachelor's degree in education,
Montana State University-Billings, 1992.

Employment: 2009-present, Montana state auditor; 2000-2008, semi-retired former
business owner; 1995-2000, co-owner and general manager, Montana Communications
Network, an Internet service provider; 1993-1994, part-time English instructor
at MSU-Billings; 1980-1985, bartender.

Military: None.

Political experience: Served as state representative from Huntley, 1999-2006;
ran unsuccessfully for U.S. House in 2006.

Derek Skees

Political party: Republican.

Office sought: Auditor.

Office salary: $86,018.

Age: 44.

Birth date and place: Aug. 26, 1968, Orlando, Fla.

Home: Whitefish.

Occupation: Building consultant.

Family: Wife Ronalee, three grown children.

Education: Columbia Falls High School graduate, 1986; associate degree in
history and economics from Seminole State College in Sanford, Fla; attended
Central Florida University.

Employment: 2011-present, owner-operator of Hadrian Logistics, a construction
consulting firm; 2005-2011, project manager and vice president, Roger Porch
Construction in the Flathead Valley; 1998-2005, worked with family's
construction business in the Flathead Valley; 1986-1998, driver and manager with
United Parcel Service, Orlando, Fla.

Military: None.

Political experience: State representative from Whitefish since 2011.

___ (c)2012 The Montana Standard (Butte, Mont.) Visit The Montana Standard
(Butte, Mont.) at www.mtstandard.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20121003-BU-HLT-Skees-vs-Lindeen-for-state-auditor-Another-race-focusing-on-Obam
acare-1003-20121003

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BU


                      Copyright 2012 The Montana Standard


                             326 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

NEW OFFICE TO CARRY OUT HEALTH CARE LAW

BYLINE: By DAVID WAHLBERG dwahlberg@madison.com 608-252-6125

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 265 words


A new state agency is being created to implement the federal health care reform
law passed last month.

Gov. Jim Doyle announced the Office of Health Care Reform on Wednesday at
Meriter Hospital and earlier at Froedtert Hospital in Wauwatosa. The office is
led by Karen Timberlake, secretary of the Department of Health Services, and
insurance commissioner Sean Dilweg.

Doyle said the agency will prepare Wisconsin to carry out requirements of the
federal law, such as providing tax credits to small businesses to buy health
insurance for employees; banning insurers from dropping coverage when people get
sick; and making sure insurers don't deny coverage for people who already have
medical conditions - this year for children and in 2014 for adults.

The office also will "aggressively pursue" some of the $5 billion allocated to
states to expand high-risk pools such as Wisconsin's Health Insurance
Risk-Sharing Plan, the governor said.

Another key task will be setting up a health insurance exchange by 2014 in which
small business workers and individuals can buy coverage, in some cases with
subsidies. "I want this exchange to be easy to use," Doyle said.

The Obama administration has said the federal law will extend coverage to 32
million Americans.

At least 125,000 of the roughly 400,000 people currently without insurance in
Wisconsin will be covered under the law, Timberlake said. That includes many of
the 34,000 people now on the waiting list for BadgerCare Plus, the state's main
Medicaid program for the poor.

Doyle also announced a new Web site: www.healthcarereform.wisconsin.gov .

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             327 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            August 23, 2014 Saturday

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 571 words


Public employee unions and retirees fighting to overturn the state's pension
reform law are making another attempt to get an expedited ruling in the case.

Attorneys for those groups filed a new motion in Sangamon County Circuit Court
asking a judge to issue a quick ruling in their favor in light of the recent
Illinois Supreme Court ruling on retiree health insurance premiums.

"The (health insurance) decision confirms what we have always argued, that the
state's constitutional language guards against any diminishment or impairment of
pension benefits that (the reform law) imposes," said the We Are One Illinois
union coalition said in a prepared statement. "We believe, then, that the
state's defense is without merit and so have asked the court in this motion to
rule in our favor."

In the insurance case, known as the Kanerva case for one of the plaintiffs,
Roger Kanerva, the court ruled that subsidized state health insurance for
retirees is a protected pension benefit and the state cannot begin charging
premiums for it. Prior to passage of a 2012 law, state workers who retired with
20 or more years on the job were entitled to premium-free health insurance.

"In short, Kanerva confirms case law precedent that the Pension Protection
Clause absolutely protects pension benefits from any unilateral diminishment and
impairment by the state under any circumstances," the new motion states.

The pension protection clause of the Illinois Constitution states that
government pensions cannot be diminished or impaired.

Lawyers for the state have argued that the state has "reserved sovereign powers"
that allow it to make changes to pensions in extreme situations, like the
ongoing financial crisis the state is experiencing.

However, lawyers for the pension reform opponents are contending the ruling in
the health insurance case essentially nullifies the state's arguments and allows
the court to render a quick decision in the pension reform lawsuit.

Lawmakers passed the pension reform law in December. Most of the savings in the
law comes from curtailing annual raises to pension benefits. Prior to the law,
pension benefits automatically increased by 3 percent a year compounded. Under
the law, the raises apply to only a portion of retirees' pensions under a
formula based on their years of work.

The law also raises the retirement age and limits the salary on which a pension
can be earned. The law also cuts the contribution employees are required to make
toward their pensions.

Attorneys previously tried to obtain an expedited ruling in the pension case,
but Circuit Judge John Belz rejected it. That was prior to the Supreme Court's
ruling in the health insurance case.

Unless it is changed, a lengthy schedule is in place for lawyers from both sides
to obtain depositions from expert witnesses regarding the state's financial
condition and other factors. Under that scheduled, attorneys do not believe the
pension case will be decided at the circuit court level until next year.

The next hearing for the pension reform lawsuits is scheduled for Sept. 4.

Lawyers for plaintiffs in the Kanerva case will be in court Thursday seeking to
win a declaratory judgment in their favor. They will also seek to stop the state
from continuing to collect premiums for retirees and try to work out a plan for
premiums already paid to be returned.

Contact Doug Finke: doug.finke@sj-r.com, 788-1527, twitter.com/dougfinkesjr.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             328 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

PLAYING POLITICS WITH REFORM

SECTION: NATIONAL; TIMES EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 520 words


A federal judge in Virginia dealt a temporary setback to the Affordable Care Act
on Monday. But health care reform should ultimately withstand constitutional
challenges filed by opponents. And that makes it all the more aggravating that
Florida's highly partisan leaders are trying to stonewall its implementation,
demonstrating both contempt for federal authority and a lack of compassion for
the 4 million Floridians without health insurance and other residents who could
benefit under the new law.

Three federal judges have now ruled on the constitutionality of the new health
care reform law. Two found that Congress has the power to require individuals to
purchase health insurance or pay a tax penalty. U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson
of Virginia, an appointee of President George W. Bush, made the opposite call on
Monday. Florida's challenge, led by Republican Attorney General Bill McCollum
and joined by 19 other states, will be heard Thursday before a federal judge in
Pensacola who has already expressed reservations about the law. But all this is
a warm-up act. Ultimately the U.S. Supreme Court will decide, and the sooner
these cases reach the high court the better.

Hudson concluded that requiring nearly all Americans to obtain health insurance
from a private provider was "beyond the historical reach" of prior cases
interpreting the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.

But District Judge Norman Moon, also from Virginia, ruled last month that a
decision not to purchase health insurance was an economic act with significant
consequences. "Regardless of whether one relies on an insurance policy, one's
own savings, or the backstop of free or reduced-cost emergency room services,
one has made a choice regarding the method of payment for health care services
one expects to receive."

Supreme Court precedents suggest that the individual mandate is defensible under
the Constitution, since individuals who choose to forgo health insurance
coverage skew the national market and shift billions of dollars in costs from
the uninsured onto those with health insurance.

Plus, Hudson's ruling preserves every part of the law except for the individual
mandate, and fails to block any part of it while appeals are taken. Even this
conservative judge found that the rest of the law can stand.

That fact, however, escaped Florida's leaders on Monday, who gloated that the
ruling was progress for their anti-health reform efforts. Senate President Mike
Haridopolos promised Floridians will ultimately opt out all together under a
constitutional amendment he's proposing: "If Obama-Care somehow survives these
legal challenges, Floridians can have the same opportunity to do what companies
and big labor unions are already doing - opt out of this new law." That's a
waste of time and money on an issue that ultimately will be decided at the U.S.
Supreme Court. The real message coming from the Republican leadership in
Tallahassee is not just a disregard for federal authority but for millions of
Floridians who can't find or afford health insurance. Their message to their
constituents: You're on your own.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2010 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             329 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Creston News Advertiser (Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 11, 2012 Wednesday

New health-care law may benefit small businesses

BYLINE: Kyle Wilson, The Creston News Advertiser, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 393 words


July 11--The Affordable Healthcare Act recently upheld by the Supreme Court will
affect employer-based health insurance locally over the next 24 months, with the
most notable affects occurring at the small-business level.

By 2014, every company with a workforce of 50 or more full-time equivalent
employees will be required to offer affordable health insurance to its
employees. At that time, Iowa and most other states are expected to have an
insurance exchange setup whereby individuals can shop for their health insurance
and find a policy tailored to them through a certified Internet website.

Businesses with more than 50 employees, like Precision Optical Group in Creston,
will also have to determine whether dropping health insurance and paying an
annual fine to the federal government of at least $2,000 for each employee is
the best way to go.

Matt Somers, co-owner of Precision Optical, said his company is currently
insured through Bernie Lowe and Associates of Ankeny. Somers said he has about
70 employees on the company's health insurance plan and, at this point, sees no
reason why he would pay the annual fine of at least $2,000.

"We want to supply our employees with the best possible insurance covera ge,"
Somers said, "but coverage is getting to the point where it's really getting
expensive. We are in wait-and-see mode right now until after the election. We
will see how this all plays out. But, no doubt, it will be a major decision for
our company in the future."

Under the new health-care law, small businesses have the most incentive to
provide insurance to their employees as tax credits are available to businesses
with fewer than 25 full-time equivalent employees with average annual wages of
less than $50,000 if they contribute to their employees' health insurance
premiums.

The new health-care law should enable small businesses to be more competitive in
recruiting talented workers. Right now, good employees tend to gravitate toward
businesses that offer health coverage. Under the Affordable Care Act, through
state and federal exchanges, employees will be able to explore their insurance
options in the exchanges, which will offer a variety of coverages.

___ (c)2012 the Creston News Advertiser (Creston, Iowa) Visit the Creston News
Advertiser (Creston, Iowa) at www.crestonnewsadvertiser.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120711-IK-New-health-care-law
-may-benefit-small-businesses-0711-20120711

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IK


                   Copyright 2012 The Creston News Advertiser


                             330 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             August 1, 2014 Friday

A serious

BYLINE: By JOEL W. HAY, Contributing Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 755 words


The recent conflicting decisions by the Richmond, Va., and Washington, D.C.,
federal appeals court panels throw the legality of the Affordable Care Act again
into question at a critical time in its implementation.

If the D.C. judges are upheld on further appeal, it could easily strike a death
blow to Obamacare. The core issue decided in both cases was whether the Internal
Revenue Service has the authority to provide tax subsidies and penalties to
individuals and employers in the 36 states that opted out of creating state-run
health insurance exchanges.

The D.C. panel of judges found that there was no language in the law to allow
penalties or subsidies except through state-run health insurance exchanges. The
Richmond judicial panel found the language in the ACA statute ambiguous and
therefore deferred to the IRS's interpretation.

The stakes are huge. According to Michael Cannon, a Cato Institute health policy
expert leading this legal charge against the ACA, if the IRS's subsidies and
penalties are illegal, then 8 million individuals potentially signing up for the
federally-run health insurance exchange will lose health insurance subsidies
averaging $4,400 each.

In fact, 4.5 million individuals who have already signed up for health insurance
in these states may have to pay back the health insurance subsidies that they've
already received. A family earning as little as $33,000 could be asked to pay
back nearly $20,000 in federal health insurance subsidies for 2014.

But that is only one problem for the ACA.

To avoid even greater unpopularity right before the mid-term elections, Obama
has postponed the full implementation of the employer penalties for firms not
offering health insurance until 2016.

This also allegedly violates the language of the ACA statute and has already
triggered a lawsuit by House Speaker John Boehner.

If the courts decide that the IRS is not allowed to assess health insurance
mandate penalties, 250,000 employers in the 36 states that don't have state-run
exchanges will face no obligation to provide health insurance coverage for 57
million people.

At that point, given that health insurance companies are no longer allowed to
experience-rate their premiums, health insurance plans in the 36 states without
state-run exchanges will go into a death spiral as premiums are raised and
healthy people drop insurance coverage that they are no longer mandated to
obtain.

Given that they failed to set up state-run exchanges initially, the state
legislatures in these 36 states opting out of federally-run Obamacare will face
little political pressure to enact new state-run exchanges at this point.

While never popular with a majority of those polled, the unfavorable poll
numbers on Obamacare have widened since the health insurance exchanges were
launched last fall. These state politicians will be unlikely to take on their
small businesses, large employers or their workers losing jobs over 30 hours per
week now if they weren't willing to do so before the Obamacare roll-out.

If anything, some of the states (plus D.C.) that set up state-run exchanges may
opt out of Obamacare to avoid the hit that it is taking on their economies and
employment.

Even if the ACA is gutted by a court decision, I suspect that California and
some of the states that have successfully enacted state-run exchanges would find
a way to keep them going just as Massachusetts did with Romneycare prior to
Obamacare.

The arcane reason that the Affordable Care Act contains no federal subsidy or
penalty rules is that language of the law came out of the Senate bill that beat
a filibuster by only one vote and was to be modified in conference with the
House.

However, just then, Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., died and was replaced by Sen.
Scott Brown. At that point, the House had to pass the Senate bill without any
changes, or face further Senate filibustering of the law.

So just like two years ago, we're one Supreme Court ruling away from overturning
Obamacare. And that's assuming that the Republicans never again win the White
House or gain enough control of the House and Senate to make good on their
pledges to shut it down.

I still wouldn't give Obamacare great odds for long and healthy survival, but
the sudden dives, jolts, twists and turns it's already experienced in its
political and legal history make Magic Mountain's biggest roller coaster look
like a gentle kiddie ride. Continue to hold on to your hats!

Joel W. Hay is a professor at

the USC Schaeffer Center for

Health Policy and Economics.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             331 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            February 12, 2012 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

Campaign 2012;
Where they stand

BYLINE: Bill Steiden; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 1268 words



HIGHLIGHT: A weekly look at the Republican candidates' positions. Today: health
care.


If there is any issue that unites Republicans, it is their determination to
repeal President Barack Obama's health care law.

The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says the law, passed in 2010 over
the all-but-unanimous objection of GOP lawmakers in Congress, would provide
health insurance for more than half of the 56 million uninsured Americans and
reduce federal budget deficits by $143 billion between the time of its passage
and 2019. But Republicans reject those estimates, saying the law's mandates will
add layers of regulation and bureaucracy to health care, discouraging investment
and strangling employment.

Other Republican objections range from the law's requirement that all Americans
obtain health insurance --- an issue the Supreme Court is scheduled to rule on
in June --- to the current controversy over the administration's ruling that
Catholic Church-affiliated employers, such as Catholic hospitals, must offer
coverage for contraceptives under federally required standards for minimum
coverage.

If the Supreme Court strikes down the law or Republicans repeal it, the problem
of deficit-boosting increases in health care costs will remain. What
alternatives do the candidates for the GOP presidential nomination propose?

Newt Gingrich

Gingrich's plan emphasizes cost control through the private market and personal
choice. Among its key points is a major tenet of most Republican alternatives
proposed during the debate on the health care bill: encouraging more competition
among health insurers by allowing the sale of policies across state lines.

States have expressed the worry that establishing a national health insurance
market would set off a rush to the bottom, as the least-regulated, stingiest
plans out-compete others on price, leaving many people underinsured. But
Gingrich seeks to counter that by arming consumers with more information,
providing readily accessible data about costs and quality in even broader form
than the state insurance exchanges being set up under the Obama law.

Gingrich would address the problem of workers becoming hostages to their
employers' health insurance by allowing them to opt out of such coverage and
instead use tax credits and expanded tax-sheltered Health Savings Accounts to
buy their own, portable policies.

While Obama's law makes it illegal for insurers to deny coverage for
pre-existing conditions, Gingrich would instead have states set up high-risk
coverage pools to guarantee insurance to those he describes as too ill to buy
their own policies. He also calls for reinforcing existing laws against insurers
using pretenses to drop customers who become ill.

Along the lines of the Medicare Advantage program started during President
George W. Bush's administration, Gingrich would allow seniors greater latitude
to use their benefits to purchase private insurance. He would also reform
Medicaid, the heavily regulated state-federal health care safety net for the
poor, by converting it into a block grant program to be administered by the
states.

Also a part of Gingrich's proposal is one of his signature ideas: reducing costs
and improving treatment by requiring the computerization of all medical records.
He pushed that idea and others through his Center for Health Transformation, a
for-profit organization that collected annual fees from health care companies
supporting its goals.

Ron Paul

The Texas congressman, a doctor, is libertarian on health care. He sees the
current health care system as a government-run monopoly with a vested interest
in keeping costs high, basing its mandate on the idea that health care is a
basic right --- a contention with which he fundamentally disagrees.

Paul calls for repealing the regulations that sustain the current system,
turning health insurance into a safety net instead of the major funder of the
medical industry. He says doctors should provide charity care for the poor
instead of regarding it as a government responsibility.

He would also seek to make all health care costs tax-deductible; give young
people the option of buying long-term health insurance policies on which they
could pay a set premium; and remove any obstacles to potentially less expensive
alternative health treatments.

As for Medicare, the government's largest health program, he would allow workers
to opt out and assume responsibility for covering their own old-age medical
needs.

More conventionally Republican are his proposals to promote competition by
allowing the sale of health insurance across state lines and to put stricter
limits on awards in health care-related lawsuits.

Mitt Romney

Health care has been a nettlesome issue for Romney, who as governor of
Massachusetts was involved in a health care reform that was in part a model for
Obama's. His GOP opponents point that out as often as they can.

Romney has defended the Massachusetts law, saying in his 2008 campaign that
requiring everyone to buy health insurance eliminated the problem of "free
riders" who show up at hospitals expecting no-cost care. But he now says he
never intended the Massachusetts law to be a national model, and that what
worked there may not work in other states.

He says that on his first day as president he would grant every state a waiver
from the Obama law, then pursue repeal.

Romney calls for each state to devise its own health care solution, and says he
would seek to hand out Medicaid funds in block-grant form so states could try
various approaches.

He also proposes to make individuals eligible for the same tax advantages that
employers receive for buying health insurance. In addition, he touts Health
Savings Accounts as a way to give people a financial stake in their health care,
and proposes to allow use of the tax-sheltered funds to pay health insurance
premiums.

He says he would encourage the creation of insurance buying pools for small
businesses and individuals. And like all the Republican candidates, he supports
limits on malpractice awards against doctors and allowing the purchase of health
insurance policies across state lines.

Rick Santorum

Like Romney, the former senator from Pennsylvania has had to deal with seeming
contradictions between his record as an elected official and his current stances
on health care. He was among the majority of Republican senators who voted in
favor of creating a Medicare prescription drug benefit in 2003, the largest
expansion of the federal health insurance program for seniors since its creation
in the 1960s.

Santorum now says passing the bill was a mistake because the Senate failed to
fund it properly. He says his motivation in supporting it was other reforms it
contained, such as the creation of the Medicare Advantage plans that expanded
senior citizens' options for receiving their benefits through private insurance
plans.

In the 2012 race, he has been the main champion of House Budget Committee
Chairman Paul Ryan's proposal to reinvent Medicare by having seniors use their
benefit dollars to buy private health insurance plans --- though he has modified
his proposal to call for a hybrid system that would keep a government-run
program as one of the options.

He has also been the most vocal in favor of allowing the use of tax-sheltered
Health Savings Accounts to pay premiums for high-deductible health insurance
policies.

On other issues, he is in line with his fellow candidates, favoring the
conversion of Medicaid into a state-run block grant program; allowing the
purchase of health insurance across state lines; giving tax credits for health
insurance purchases and deductions for all health spending; and supporting
limits on malpractice awards.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Radiation therapist Bridget Pulliam preps equipment at Emory's
Winship Cancer Institute recently. Health care is a hot campaign issue. Vino
Wong vwong@ajc.com /ImageData*

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2012 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             332 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Japan Times

                             May 25, 2010, Tuesday

National health insurance a basic universal safety net

LENGTH: 1008 words


Natsuko Fukue, Staff writer

All Japanese citizens are required by law to be covered by public health
insurance.

Because of this universal system, most medical treatment is covered and the
costs are reasonable.

The first health insurance law took effect in 1927 to protect laborers, and in
1938 the umbrella was extended to farmers, according to the Health, Labor and
Welfare Ministry.

After World War II, many organizations stopped providing health insurance. To
make sure every citizen was covered, the government revised the national health
insurance law in 1958.

Here is some basic information about how the system now works:

What types of public health insurance are available?

There are basically four types. Company employees are mostly under "kenko hoken"
(health insurance), also known as Kenpo, managed by the national health
insurance association or health insurance unions. Civil servants are covered by
mutual aid insurance. Sailors and fishermen have seaman's insurance, while
farmers and other self-employed people must apply for the Kokuho national health
insurance managed by local governments.

Can nonregular workers, including temporary employees and day laborers, also be
insured by Kenpo?

Yes. If temporary workers have a contract exceeding two months and if they work
at least 30 hours or four days a week, they can be covered by the insurance
provided by temp staff dispatching agencies.

Day laborers with a contract of two months or less are covered by special
insurance for day workers, according to the Social Insurance Agency.

Do people on welfare also have to pay into the health insurance program?

No. Their medical costs are fully covered by medical aid, which is a part of
public assistance.

Are dependents of the insured also covered?

Yes. Relatives in the first, second and third degree benefit from the insurance
if they are financially supported by the insured.

How about foreigners?

Foreigners whose length of stay is more than a year and who are not covered
under Kenpo need to apply for the Kokuho coverage. Foreign students should be
covered by Kokuho even if they stay in Japan for less than a year.

Foreign residents are required by law to join one of the health insurance
schemes, but some opt out because they have their own insurance contracts with
private firms or they do not want to pay the fees.

There is no penalty for not joining public insurance. But the Justice Ministry's
Immigration Bureau asks foreign residents to show their public health insurance
cards when applying to renew their visas to urge them to join the health care
system.

Are there people who are not under any public health insurance?

Yes. For example in Saitama Prefecture, 36.4 percent of 962 workers who answered
a questionnaire from the prefecture in March were not covered by public health
insurance because they didn't apply for Kokuho for financial or other reasons.

In 2009, a survey by the city of Yokkaichi, Mie Prefecture, found 24 percent of
473 Brazilian residents in the city had not applied for health insurance because
they couldn't afford the fee. Yokkaichi is known for its high population of
foreign factory workers.

How much are the individual monthly premiums?

They vary a great deal depending on the type of insurance. The monthly Kenpo fee
is based on income. For example, in the case of Kenpo coverage managed by the
national insurance association, the workers' share of the burden - 50 percent of
the total fee - in Tokyo ranges from about yen 2,700 to yen 56,000. The rest is
paid by their employers.

How about for medical treatment?

Patients under 70 years old are required to pay 30 percent and those between 70
and 74 have to pay 10 percent of medical costs, including fees for checkups,
treatment and medicine at a hospital or pharmacy.

People aged 75 and above also pay 10 percent of their medical costs, but the
expenses are deducted from their pensions.

There are basically no medical charges for children whose parents pay into
public health insurance, and each local government sets its own age limit. In
Tokyo, children aged 15 or younger are eligible for free medical treatment in
many municipalities, according to the metropolitan government.

What happens if people covered under Kokuho fall behind on their premiums?

According to the metropolitan government, local governments first send a
reminder. If they still do not pay the fee, they will receive an insurance card
valid only for several weeks to months. They will also be charged in arrears.

Does public health insurance cover all types of checkups, treatment and
medicine?

No. Periodic health checks, vaccines for influenza, mumps, chickenpox and some
infectious diseases, and advanced medical treatment conducted at authorized
university hospitals, are not covered.

Health insurance also doesn't cover the cost of birth control pills.

What if a person has really high medical costs?

If the actual medical cost exceeds the fixed upper limit patients have to pay,
an insurance organization refunds the difference. In average, the monthly limit
is yen 80,100 for patients under 70. If their income is particularly high, the
limit is yen 150,000. Patients who are 70 or above have to pay up to yen 44,400.

How about births?

Regular checkups and the costs for childbirth must come out of pocket. However,
local governments provide various ways to offset these costs. Prefectures offer
yen 420,000 in childbirth assistance, and local governments have their own
financial aid for checkups and births on top of this amount. In the event of a
Caesarean section, the cost is covered by insurance.

Is it true relatives of the insured or their dependents can receive burial fees?

Yes. In the case of Kenpo, yen 50,000 is provided. For those under Kokuho, the
amount of payment varies depending on the local administration.

The Weekly FYI appears Tuesdays (Wednesdays in some areas). Readers are
encouraged to send ideas, questions and opinions to the National News Desk at
hodobu@japantimes.co.jp

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2010 The Japan Times Ltd.


                             333 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             July 31, 2014 Thursday

Another serious blow for Obamacare

BYLINE: By JOEL W. HAY, Contributing Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 756 words


The recent conflicting decisions by the Richmond, Va., and Washington, D.C.,
federal appeals court panels throw the legality of the Affordable Care Act again
into question at a critical time in its implementation.

If the D.C. judges are upheld on further appeal, it could easily strike a death
blow to Obamacare. The core issue decided in both cases was whether the Internal
Revenue Service has the authority to provide tax subsidies and penalties to
individuals and employers in the 36 states that opted out of creating state-run
health insurance exchanges.

The D.C. panel of judges found that there was no language in the law to allow
penalties or subsidies except through state-run health insurance exchanges. The
Richmond judicial panel found the language in the ACA statute ambiguous and
therefore deferred to the IRS's interpretation.

The stakes are huge. According to Michael Cannon, a Cato Institute health policy
expert leading this legal charge against the ACA, if the IRS's subsidies and
penalties are illegal, then 8 million individuals potentially signing up for the
federally-run health insurance exchange will lose health insurance subsidies
averaging $4,400 each.

In fact, 4.5 million individuals who have already signed up for health insurance
in these states may have to pay back the health insurance subsidies that they've
already received. A family earning as little as $33,000 could be asked to pay
back nearly $20,000 in federal health insurance subsidies for 2014.

But that is only one problem for the ACA.

To avoid even greater unpopularity right before the mid-term elections, Obama
has postponed the full implementation of the employer penalties for firms not
offering health insurance until 2016.

This also allegedly violates the language of the ACA statute and has already
triggered a lawsuit by House Speaker John Boehner.

If the courts decide that the IRS is not allowed to assess health insurance
mandate penalties, 250,000 employers in the 36 states that don't have state-run
exchanges will face no obligation to provide health insurance coverage for 57
million people.

At that point, given that health insurance companies are no longer allowed to
experience-rate their premiums, health insurance plans in the 36 states without
state-run exchanges will go into a death spiral as premiums are raised and
healthy people drop insurance coverage that they are no longer mandated to
obtain.

Given that they failed to set up state-run exchanges initially, the state
legislatures in these 36 states opting out of federally-run Obamacare will face
little political pressure to enact new state-run exchanges at this point.

While never popular with a majority of those polled, the unfavorable poll
numbers on Obamacare have widened since the health insurance exchanges were
launched last fall. These state politicians will be unlikely to take on their
small businesses, large employers or their workers losing jobs over 30 hours per
week now if they weren't willing to do so before the Obamacare roll-out.

If anything, some of the 24 states (plus D.C.) that set up state-run exchanges
may opt out of Obamacare to avoid the hit that it is taking on their economies
and employment.

Even if the ACA is gutted by a court decision, I suspect that California and
some of the states that have successfully enacted state-run exchanges would find
a way to keep them going just as Massachusetts did with Romneycare prior to
Obamacare.

The arcane reason that the Affordable Care Act contains no federal subsidy or
penalty rules is that language of the law came out of the Senate bill that beat
a filibuster by only one vote and was to be modified in conference with the
House.

However, just then, Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., died and was replaced by Sen.
Scott Brown. At that point, the House had to pass the Senate bill without any
changes, or face further Senate filibustering of the law.

So just like two years ago, we're one Supreme Court ruling away from overturning
Obamacare. And that's assuming that the Republicans never again win the White
House or gain enough control of the House and Senate to make good on their
pledges to shut it down.

I still wouldn't give Obamacare great odds for long and healthy survival, but
the sudden dives, jolts, twists and turns it's already experienced in its
political and legal history make Magic Mountain's biggest roller coaster look
like a gentle kiddie ride. Continue to hold on to your hats!

Joel W. Hay is a professor at the USC Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and
Economics.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MCT illustration

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             334 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Keene Sentinel, N.H.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday

EDITORIAL: Health care reform opponents object to what?

BYLINE: The Keene Sentinel, N.H.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 602 words


Feb. 08--It is not "Obamacare."

President Obama's health care proposals included a public insurance option to
compete with private health insurance. An internal memo from an editor at Fox
News two years ago told Fox reporters to refer to the public option as a
"government option." Fine. But congressional negotiators took that idea out of
the plan months before the bill passed.

So the law is not Obama's original concept. "Obamacare" is just a snide term
used to trivialize the reforms in what is officially the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act of 2010.

Nor is it government-run health care. The plan that passed last March -- the
plan with no "government option" -- is an effort to improve, and expand
Americans' access to, private insurance for care by private enterprise.

New Hampshire's 2nd District Congressman Charles Bass and New Hampshire U.S.
Senator Kelly Ayotte understand that. They're bright people. But they and many
of their Republican colleagues write and speak as if they did not.

"The American people don't want the federal government dictating their health
care choices. This flawed law should never have been passed in the first place,
and I'm extremely glad that the House of Representatives voted to repeal it
today."

So wrote Bass in a news release Jan. 19, after the U.S. House voted to repeal
the health care law.

"While I'm pleased that repealing Obamacare was one of my first votes in the
Senate, I'm disappointed my Democrat colleagues blocked the effort. This vote
represents my strong and ongoing commitment to eliminating the federal takeover
of health care."

That was from Ayotte's news release a week later, after the Senate voted against
repeal.

Bass and Ayotte have consistently mischaracterized the health insurance law.
Before the November election, Bass called the expansion of health insurance "the
Democrats' massive government takeover of health care." In her campaign
materials, Ayotte often promised to repeal "government health care."

Bass and Ayotte weren't talking about Medicare, or medical care provided at
veterans' hospitals, both of which actually are government-run health insurance.
They were talking about the 2010 law.

So how has a law that proposes to extend private health insurance to all
Americans under the age of 65 come to represent "the federal government
dictating their health care choices" and "the federal takeover of health care"?

Bass votes to repeal the law and says he wants to fashion a set of reforms that
seem to be the very things that are in it: "patient-centered health care reform
that is based on improving care, increasing access, and lowering costs for
everyone, all while ensuring that pre-existing conditions are covered." That's
from his press release.

Ayotte, who sees most public acts as nefariously political except those under
her watch as state attorney general, objects this way to a law that won't take
full effect until 2014: "Nearly a year after Democrats passed Obamacare,
Americans are bracing for higher premiums, new taxes and reams of regulations.
Seniors are seeing their Medicare coverage dropped, and job-killing penalties
threaten to discourage hiring." That's from her news release.

What motivates these people to so deeply mischaracterize the things they purport
to oppose?

To see more of The Keene Sentinel, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.sentinelsource.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Keene Sentinel, N.H.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110208-KN-EDITORIAL-Health-care-reform-opponents-object-to-what-0208-20110208

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KN


                                 Copyright 2011


                             335 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

BYLINE: - Jenna Johnson

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 706 words

GU students continue fight for contraception coverage

This year, Georgetown University law student Sandra
Flukehttp://www.washingtonpost.com/local/education/sandra-fluke-says-she-expecte
d-criticism-not-personal-attacks-over-contraception-issue/2012/03/03/gIQAJq1UpR_
story.html brought national attention to the decades-old debate over whether
student health insurance plans at Catholic universities should cover birth
control. Fluke testified on the Hill that contraception should be covered and
gave a number of reasons.

Then conservative radio personality Rush Limbaugh called her a "slut" and a
"prostitute" for holding such opinions. That launched a different sort of
debate. Then Limbaugh apologized, and outrage on both sides mostly died down.

But the original debate is far from over at Georgetown.

Students who get their health insurance through the university are still paying
full-price for their birth control pills and other forms of contraception,
rather than the usual co-pay assigned to prescriptions. While all students are
required to have health insurance, they are not required to have the one offered
by the university. Still, many students - especially older graduate and law
school students - find the university plan the most convenient and affordable.

Starting in August, all health insurance providers will be required to cover
contraception as part of health-care reform, but religious colleges and
institutions can file for a one-year extension.

Georgetown President John J. DeGioia has been receiving pressure from numerous
sides of the issue, including those wanting coverage immediately, those wanting
to wait until 2013 and those wanting Georgetown to fight the mandate using
whatever means possible.

In a letter to a law school professor dated April 10, which was released to The
Washington Post on Friday, DeGioia wrote, "We do not intend to change
Georgetown's longstanding practice of excluding contraceptive coverage for the
purposes of birth control from its student health insurance offerings unless
explicitly required to do so by law."

DeGioia also pointed out in the letter that law students have the option of
purchasing health insurance from a third-party provider, such as a plan offered
by the American Bar Association.

On Wednesday, Fluke and more than 780 classmates sent a letter to university
administrators that urged them not to wait until 2013 to add coverage of
contraception.

"To maintain its place as one of the country's premier law schools, it is
crucial that Georgetown act to ensure that no student again suffers unnecessary
health complications" as the result of not having access to affordable birth
control, states a copy of the letter posted on the Web site of the Georgetown
Law Weekly, which first reported the news. "We ask that you treat students as
autonomous adults by complying with the new legal mandate" in August.

The Georgetown University Law Center has about 2,000 enrolled students and is
near Union Station, not on Georgetown's main campus. More than 780 of the
students have signed the letter, with Fluke being the first.

But there are also movements afoot to support the university in its adherence to
Catholic doctrine, which forbids the use of contraception.

This week, a group of more than 100 students and alumni sent an open letter to
DeGioia and asked him to publicly clarify his position on the health-care
mandate.

The letter urged the university to properly explain its student health-care plan
to the general public, especially the provision that allows for the coverage of
birth control pills used to treat medical conditions and not to prevent
pregnancy.

The open letter also criticized a university-sponsored lecture Monday that
featured Fluke, who has been the most visible advocate on this issue, having
logged hours of commentary on national television in defending herself and her
opinions. At the lecture, Fluke's comments centered on student access to
contraception and the fine-print details of the student health insurance plan.
The event was moderated by a public policy professor.

The letter senders criticized the Catholic university for providing a forum for
"Fluke to promote her views which are contrary to Church teaching."

- Jenna Johnson

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             336 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                 Hidalgo County Herald (Lordsburg, New Mexico)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               November 26, 2010

Health Insurance to improve health care access in rural NM

BYLINE: Hidalgo County Herald staff

LENGTH: 181  words


U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman said Monday that New Mexico stands to gain from a new
health insurance law initiative that helps doctors serving rural communities
repay their school loans. Bingaman helped write the provision of the law that
invests $290 million next year in the National Health Service Corps Loan
Repayment Program (NHSC).

The NHSC offers primary care medical, dental and mental health clinicians up to
$60,000 to repay student loans in exchange for two years of service at health
care facilities in medically underserved areas.

"This new health insurance law aims to expand quality health care to millions
more Americans. Many health care providers serving in rural parts of our state
already benefit from the National Health Service Corps. Expanding the loan
repayment program will ensure that more New Mexicans can access quality health
care," Bingaman said.

The Obama administration Monday also announced that, under the new health
insurance law, insurance companies will be required to spend at least 80 percent
of the premiums they generate providing quality health care.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Health

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDG

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                      Copyright 2010 Hidalgo County Herald


                             337 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Stateline.org

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 16, 2011 Monday

Stateline.org, Health Beat column

BYLINE: Christine Vestal, Stateline.org

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 550 words


May 16--MEDICAID BLOCK GRANT: A new 50-state study by the Kaiser Commission on
Medicaid and the Uninsured assessed the impact of the idea proposed by
Congressional Republicans to repeal the national health care law and replace it
with a Medicaid block grant to states. The study says that plan would force as
many as 44 million poor and disabled Americans out of the program over the next
10 years. Close to 60 million people receive Medicaid coverage now; the national
health law is expected to expand that number to more than 70 million, with the
federal government paying most of the costs.

HEALTH LAW TRIAL: A federal court in Virginia launched the first appellate
hearings in the legal case against the national health law last week. Expected
to take five weeks, the first day's proceedings focused on contradictory federal
court rulings last year in Richmond and Lynchburg. In the case, Virginia
Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli, a Republican, charged that the law's
requirement that almost everyone purchase health insurance exceeds the powers
granted to the federal government under the U.S. Constitution. A Richmond judge
agreed and ruled the entire law unconstitutional; a Lynchburg judge upheld the
law. If the appeals court's proceedings move quickly, the U.S. Supreme Court
could review the health law case in its next term, The New York Times reports.

MAINE REVAMP: Maine lawmakers passed a health insurance exchange law last week
that goes beyond the requirements of the federal health law. In addition to
allowing a health insurance market that would allow small businesses to form
groups to get cheaper insurance, the law will allow residents to purchase
insurance from companies based in other states. Among its most controversial
provisions, the bill would let insurance companies charge as much as five times
more for older residents than younger, healthier residents. The
Republican-backed proposal also would lift restrictions on how far insurers can
require policy holders to travel for care, the Bangor Daily News reports.

ROMNEY ON HEALTH CARE: In his first policy speech in his presidential campaign,
GOP hopeful and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney staunchly defended his
state's health care law -- and its requirement that everyone purchase health
insurance -- despite party opposition, The Boston Globe reports. "A lot of
pundits around the nation are saying that I should just stand up and say this
whole thing was a mistake," Romney said. "But there's only one problem with
that: It wouldn't be honest." Romney stopped short of endorsing the federal
health law, which was patterned after the Massachusetts plan, saying President
Barack Obama's health care law should be replaced with a state-based overhaul of
the nation's health care system.

"Health Beat" provides a quick analysis of recent health news in state
government. Click here to find Stateline's daily roundup of health care news.

-- Contact Christine Vestal at cvestal@stateline.org

To see more of the Stateline.org, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
www.stateline.org/. Copyright (c) 2011, Stateline.org Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the content
services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110516-SH-HEALTH-BRIEFS-COL-20110516

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                            Copyright 2011 Stateline


                             338 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            August 22, 2013 Thursday

Obamacare will assure future generations of healthy women

LENGTH: 612  words


When it comes to the Affordable Care Act, sometimes called Obamacare, it seems
the fights get all the attention: politicians in Congress attempting to repeal
the Affordable Care Act for the umpteenth time and bosses of for-profit
companies suing for the power to deny women coverage for birth control, just as
they would other preventative care.


But the big story of the Affordable Care Act is the steady, historic progress
for women and families that doesn't grab headlines: preventative care without
co-pays, gender equity in insurance rates and an end to being told that
pregnancy or domestic abuse is a "pre-existing condition."
The inflammatory headlines have left a lot of people wondering what the new
health-care law is really all about.
The law means that all Americans must get health insurance or pay a fine. For
many people, insurance has been simply too expensive for too long. Now, millions
of people who haven't been able to afford insurance will get financial help.
This is part of the new law.
Enrollment in new health-insurance plans begins on Oct. 1, and Planned
Parenthood of Greater Orlando is gearing up to educate young women about what
the new health-care law means for them.
Beginning in September, Planned Parenthood of Greater Orlando's clinic staff,
educators and volunteers will begin talking with eligible young people about how
they will benefit from insurance coverage, and helping them enroll in health
care.
At health fairs, in our health centers, on social media and our website, we will
be talking with women about this historic opportunity to get health-insurance
coverage.
Nearly 12 million women between the ages of 19 and 44 will be eligible for
coverage. In Florida, there are 1.9 million eligible uninsured women in this age
group.
And nationwide, nearly 2 million African-American women and 2.5 million Latinas
currently uninsured will have access to health insurance.
The bottom line is millions of women will have access to health insurance for
the first time - and that is simply groundbreaking.
What does having health insurance mean? It means if you or a family member gets
sick, you won't have to worry about big medical bills or going into bankruptcy.

And under the new health law, it means all health-insurance plans will have to
cover preventative care, including birth control, well-woman exams, diabetes
screening and cancer screenings without a co-pay.
The new health-care law also assures equity in cost between men and women.
Before Obamacare, women could pay as much as 60 percent more for insurance than
men, largely because of the cost of reproductive health services like
contraception and maternity care.

There's more good news. These new insurance plans cannot deny you coverage if
you have a pre-existing condition - whether you've had a C-section, received
treatment for breast cancer or have diabetes.
And the benefits are not just for women. Obamacare assures that all children
will receive no-cost preventative care, such as well-child visits and new baby
care. Breastfeeding supplies are also covered under the new law.
For the first time in history, insurance companies will be prohibited from
denying coverage to children for pre-existing childhood illnesses.
As the adage goes, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Inflammatory
headlines aside, the truth is that the new health-care law protects families and
assures future generations of healthy women and children.
And once families start getting the coverage they need, once they can go to the
doctor without fear of being turned away or the worry that a diagnosis will mean
bankruptcy - they're not going to let anyone take that away.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             339 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                WMI Company News

                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday

New health insurance rules

LENGTH: 123 words


The Executive Council Resolution No (7) of 2016 pertaining to fees and fines in
Dubai's health insurance sector was issued on March 29, 2016.

The Resolution empowers the Dubai Health Authority and Dubai Healthcare City
Authority to supervise the implementation of Dubai's new Health Insurance Law
(Insurance Law No. 11) and other associated resolutions. These two authorities
are also given the power to issue permits to claims management companies,
insurance firms and healthcare service providers seeking to provide health
insurance services.

The other key provisions of the resolution are as follows:



Please access the full 'Governance, Risk and Compliance - The UAE Insurance
Industry' report at:
http://www.insurance-ic.com/search?q[]=UAE

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 World Market Intelligence Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             340 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            August 23, 2014 Saturday

State Workforce;
Unions want expedited ruling in pensions suit

BYLINE: Doug Finke State Capitol Bureau

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 571 words


Public employee unions and retirees fighting to overturn the state's pension
reform law are making another attempt to get an expedited ruling in the case.

Attorneys for those groups filed a new motion in Sangamon County Circuit Court
asking a judge to issue a quick ruling in their favor in light of the recent
Illinois Supreme Court ruling on retiree health insurance premiums.

"The (health insurance) decision confirms what we have always argued, that the
state's constitutional language guards against any diminishment or impairment of
pension benefits that (the reform law) imposes," said the We Are One Illinois
union coalition said in a prepared statement. "We believe, then, that the
state's defense is without merit and so have asked the court in this motion to
rule in our favor."

In the insurance case, known as the Kanerva case for one of the plaintiffs,
Roger Kanerva, the court ruled that subsidized state health insurance for
retirees is a protected pension benefit and the state cannot begin charging
premiums for it. Prior to passage of a 2012 law, state workers who retired with
20 or more years on the job were entitled to premium-free health insurance.

"In short, Kanerva confirms case law precedent that the Pension Protection
Clause absolutely protects pension benefits from any unilateral diminishment and
impairment by the state under any circumstances," the new motion states.

The pension protection clause of the Illinois Constitution states that
government pensions cannot be diminished or impaired.

Lawyers for the state have argued that the state has "reserved sovereign powers"
that allow it to make changes to pensions in extreme situations, like the
ongoing financial crisis the state is experiencing.

However, lawyers for the pension reform opponents are contending the ruling in
the health insurance case essentially nullifies the state's arguments and allows
the court to render a quick decision in the pension reform lawsuit.

Lawmakers passed the pension reform law in December. Most of the savings in the
law comes from curtailing annual raises to pension benefits. Prior to the law,
pension benefits automatically increased by 3 percent a year compounded. Under
the law, the raises apply to only a portion of retirees' pensions under a
formula based on their years of work.

The law also raises the retirement age and limits the salary on which a pension
can be earned. The law also cuts the contribution employees are required to make
toward their pensions.

Attorneys previously tried to obtain an expedited ruling in the pension case,
but Circuit Judge John Belz rejected it. That was prior to the Supreme Court's
ruling in the health insurance case.

Unless it is changed, a lengthy schedule is in place for lawyers from both sides
to obtain depositions from expert witnesses regarding the state's financial
condition and other factors. Under that scheduled, attorneys do not believe the
pension case will be decided at the circuit court level until next year.

The next hearing for the pension reform lawsuits is scheduled for Sept. 4.

Lawyers for plaintiffs in the Kanerva case will be in court Thursday seeking to
win a declaratory judgment in their favor. They will also seek to stop the state
from continuing to collect premiums for retirees and try to work out a plan for
premiums already paid to be returned.

Contact Doug Finke: doug.finke@sj-r.com, 788-1527, twitter.com/dougfinkesjr.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             341 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday

Employers criticize health-care minimum as being inadequate

BYLINE: By ERIK ARVIDSON, Sun Statehouse Bureau

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 575 words


BOSTON -- Some of the state's largest employers of part-time workers are
concerned that the state's new health-insurance law would make them liable to
cover the expenses of employees who can't afford the health-insurance premiums.

Business trade organizations have asked state regulators to delay the
implementation of new employer surcharges to pay for the health insurance of
nearly all the state's uninsured workers starting in July 2007.

Affordable health-insurance advocates, meanwhile, countered by arguing that the
new law doesn't go far enough to requiring employers to provide a sufficient
level of health-care benefits to their employees.

The new law is designed to force employers with more than 10 workers who don't
offer health insurance to contribute toward the cost of free care, which is care
given to people, employed or not, who don't have insurance.

Employers would be required to set up a health-insurance program under Section
125 of the Internal Revenue Service Code, which allows employees to pay their
premiums pre-tax. Those employers who don't set up a Section 125 plan would be
subject to the so-called "free rider surcharge" which will range between 10
percent and 100 percent of the cost of the health care provided to employees.

Eileen McAnneny, vice president of Government Affairs for Associated Industries
of Massachusetts, said the law could require companies to foot the bill for
employees who can't afford the premiums.

"If I'm a part-time worker and my wages are insufficient to cover the premiums,
because it's a payroll deduction, does the employer pay for it?" McAnneny said.
"The employer could take a hit. That's fine if the worker stays on the payroll,
but what if they quit?"

McAnneny, whose group represents 7,600 members who employ 680,000 people, said
the law could hit retailers and other industries that employ part-time and
seasonal workers the hardest.

McAnneny spoke at a public hearing of the state Division of Health Care Finance
and Policy on the regulations. She asked that there be a "grace period" after
Jan. 1, 2007 -- when employers would be required to set up the Section 125 plans
-- to give employers time to begin collecting premiums from their workers.

"We're just looking for some leniency so that employers who are making a good
faith effort can comply," McAnneny said.

Brigitte Walsh, a spokeswoman for the health care finance and policy division,
the state agency which promulgates health-care regulations, said, "We've heard
the concern of employers and will take all the testimony under consideration."
However, it hasn't been finalized how the Section 125 plans will work for all
employees, she added.

Health-care advocates and labor unions also lobbied state regulators to change a
rule requiring employers who don't offer health insurance to pay a $295 fee per
employee.

Companies which contribute 33 percent of the cost of an employee's
health-insurance premium could avoid the surcharge.

The 33 percent requirement would reduce benefits "to the point of being
practically meaningless," said John McDonough, executive director of Health Care
for All of Massachusetts.

In addition, health-care advocates criticized a rule that allowed companies to
avoid paying the fee if at least 25 percent of their workers enrolled in a
employee-sponsored group health plan. They said the law doesn't mandate a
minimum level of health care coverage.

Erik Arvidson's email address is earvidson@lowellsun.com .

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             342 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                              May 16, 2014 Friday

120,000 Iowans enrolled

BYLINE: ERIN MURPHY TH staff writer * emurphy@wcinet.com

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words


ILLINOIS More than 217,000 people enrolled in the state's health insurance
marketplace, and about 287,000 enrolled in Medicaid, according to the state.
WISCONSIN Nearly 140,000 people enrolled in the state's health insurance
marketplace, according to the federal government. Wisconsin expanded Medicaid
for individuals with incomes below the federal poverty line but eliminated
eligibility for those above. The result was a net 1 percent decline in Medicaid
enrollment, according to Kaiser Family Foundation. Note: Illinois and Wisconsin
do not publish county-level statistics.

More than 120,000 Iowans - including close to 2,500 from Dubuque County - have
enrolled in the new state and federal health insurance programs, the most recent
data show.

Figures are available now that open enrollment is closed for the first year of
the new federal health care law.

The Iowa Department of Human Services published a county breakdown of enrollment
numbers, and 2,468 low-income Dubuque County residents have signed up for health
insurance through various programs. Nearly 95,000 Iowans have enrolled in state
health insurance programs. Some of those are individuals who were on Medicaid
under the old system, while others are gaining insurance for the first time.

That is slightly more than what was expected, according to an Iowa Department of
Human Services spokeswoman.

Those state health insurance programs are available to Iowans with incomes up to
133 percent of the federal poverty level - $15,521 for an individual or $31,721
for a family of four, for example.

In addition, more than 29,000 Iowans purchased a plan from the federal health
insurance marketplace.

"I'm encouraged," said Iowa Sen. Pam Jochum, D-Dubuque, a key member of the
legislative team that in 2013 negotiated Iowa's participation in the federal
health care law. "I think that as people become more and more aware of what's
out there to help them get health insurance, more and more people will continue
to sign up."

The health care law requires most people to have health insurance or pay a fine
on their taxes. The law allows states to expand Medicaid, the health care
program for low-income residents; Iowa and Illinois did, while Wisconsin did
not.

Republicans in Iowa originally opposed Medicaid expansion, but the two political
parties negotiated a compromise that expanded Medicaid for some people and
provides Medicaid-funded premium subsidies for others.

"Iowa is leading the country with this whole kind of public and private Medicaid
expansion," said Cliff Gold, co-founder and chief operating officer of
CoOportunity Health, one of two statewide insurance providers in Iowa's
marketplace. "A lot of other states are looking at Iowa's model as the one
they're considering now."

The federal law also established virtual marketplaces through which residents
not eligible for Medicaid could purchase insurance from private providers. Some
of those people are eligible for government-funded premium assistance.

The federal government recently announced more than 8 million Americans have
selected a health insurance program. The data does not show how many of those
who have enrolled have paid their premiums.

Gold said early enrollment has gone "very well" and that many of those who have
signed up for insurance through his company did not previously have it.

Of the 95,000 Iowans enrolled in the state's health insurance programs -
collectively called the Iowa Health and Wellness Plan - more than 75,000 are
Medicaid carryovers or people newly eligible for Medicaid under the program's
expansion. More than 1,900 such people came from Dubuque County.

The program also offers more robust services than previous Medicaid plans.

"Many of these people may have had Iowa Care previously or another (insurance
program)," said Iowa DHS spokeswoman Amy McCoy. "Now, they have this really
comprehensive benefits package."

The rest of the Iowa Health and Wellness Plan enrollees - almost 20,000 - are
enrolled through the state's alternative to further Medicaid expansion. They
have incomes between 100 percent and 133 percent of the federal poverty level.
Of these, 556 were from Dubuque County.

Monthly premiums for both programs will be covered by Medicaid funding for those
who achieve certain wellness goals like getting an annual checkup.

The federal government did not provide a county breakdown of the 29,000-plus
Iowans who signed up for insurance through the federal marketplace.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             343 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

New private exchange health insurance marketplace

LENGTH: 245  words


Getting ready for 2014, Americans are being offered new ways of buying health
insurance. Any British expatriates resident in the USA will also be subject to
the new compulsory health insurance law. A new service to dramatically reduce
the time spent online ordering and quoting health Insurance through the public
state exchanges is 401Kman Benefits line .It allows access to trained, licensed
insurance agents not just navigators. It provides not only health and
supplemental but voluntary insurance plans as well. One toll free call will
provide an immediate state licensed agent with multiple quotes, solutions and
unbiased trusted expert help. The websites and licensed insurance agents have
subsidy calculators to assist people determining benefit eligiibility and offer
the same ability to provide multiple state approved plans and quotes as the
state exchanges do. Where available will also offer additional choices to select
from more carriers and plans that are not available on the state or public
exchanges. The offering of these voluntary products such as supplemental plans
on a private exchange allows customers to shop for all their insurance needs
instead of only a medical plan available at the public exchanges in one simple
easy call. And trained expert licensed agents can assist with recommendations
for a wide variety of products unlike the public exchange's navigators who are
prohibited from offering recommendations on their only health product.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             344 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday

Health Care Crossroads

BYLINE: In Our View

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 452  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


We're regressing.

It was startling to hear the cheers at Monday's Republican debate in Florida
when CNN's Wolf Blitzer asked whether an ill person without health insurance
should simply die.

But that appears to be the direction many people want this country to follow
when it comes to health insurance.

Tuesday, U.S. District Judge Christopher C. Conner of Pennsylvania ruled that
the mandate requiring all citizens to have health insurance was
unconstitutional. He further ruled that the linkage in the health care law
requiring insurance companies to cover pre-existing conditions also was
unconstitutional.

Taken to its logical conclusion, that means if someone loses a job and comes
down with a life-threatening disease, they will be judged on the altar of profit
vs. treatment.

What a country.

An estimated 40 million-plus Americans lack health insurance. Insurance
companies refuse to insure people with pre-existing conditions and cut those who
contract life-threatening or chronic diseases. The high cost of health insurance
and/or the inability to purchase health insurance is bankrupting families.

The Affordable Care Act was intended to, if not fix these problems, at least
ameliorate them. Instead, it has become the whipping boy for opponents who have
poured millions of dollars into fighting the law.

Judge Conner was correct when he said the nation "undoubtedly faces a health
care crisis." But every attempt to fix that problem has been obstructed by
insurance companies that dictate doctor visits and health care prescriptions and
lawmakers who have their own Cadillac health care plans.

The nation does face a health care crisis.

Between 2000 and 2006, wages rose 3.8 percent while health care premiums rose 87
percent. One study found that 41 percent of all American households either have
medical bill problems or are paying off medical bills. A study by the American
Journal of Medicine found that medical bills played a significant role in more
than 60 percent of personal bankruptcies in this country.

These figures, coupled with new Census numbers that show 1 in 6 Americans now
lives in poverty are a cry for change in this country.

The Pennsylvania lawsuit is one of more than 30 lawsuits that have been filed
nationally challenging the health care law.

Several judges have ruled that the mandate that all Americans have health
insurance is an illegal extension of the Constitution's commerce clause. At
least one judge has ruled the entire law constitutional.

The Affordable Care Act appears to be headed to the U.S. Supreme Court.

The sooner, the better.

In the interim, people without insurance are dying and people at campaign
rallies are cheering.

We're regressing, both as a country and as a society.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.


                             345 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                            July 14, 2004 Wednesday

Health Insurance Law weakened by vested interests - report

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 709 words


The decade-old National Health Insurance Law has been "emasculated" and
"eviscerated" by 357 amendments pushed by vested interests, according to a
50-page study conducted by the independent, Jerusalem-based Taub Center for
Social Policy Research in Israel. The Taub Center, whose health policy expert
Dr. Tuvia Horev headed the research team, called on the government and the
Knesset immediately to complete the Basic Law: Social Rights, to correct the
loss of the law's content.

Horev, who lectures at Ben-Gurion University and is an adviser to Kupat Holim
Meuhedet, said that since it was passed by the Knesset on June 15, 1994, the
National Health Insurance Law was interfered with by powerful interests in the
health system who pushed their own priorities without dealing with the
implications to the general public. As a result, the basket of health services
(medications and technologies paid for by the health funds) are not equally
accessible to all, due to heavy copayments and restricting criteria for
obtaining them. Disease prevention, the school health service, and geriatric and
psychiatric services have all gotten the short end of the stick, he said. The
law, which was aimed at making public medical services easily accessible to all
- no matter what the individual's income and background - has gone off target,
Horev wrote.

The Treasury's refusal to update the basket automatically has caused it to erode
severely, thus health fund members are not entitled to get new and more
treatments that have not been added to the basket, the report says. The public's
out-of-pocket support of the health system continues to grow, while the
Treasury's participation in funding for health services continues to shrink.

The original version of the law gave the health minister almost exclusive powers
relating to the law, but updates sponsored by the Treasury - especially the
annual Arrangements Law - have severely weakened these powers, thus expanding
the powers of the finance minister. A growing number of health care
responsibilities was transferred to the four public health funds, but the money
to cover these extra costs did not accompany them. Even the labor courts, which
were given responsibility for dealing with cases against the health funds and
other providers of health services, exempted the government from responsibility,
the report said.

If the Basic Law: Social Rights is finally legislated, citizens will be able to
demand and get decent health services as set down by the original National
Health Insurance Law, said the Taub Center. The draft for this Basic Law has
been in the Knesset for some time, but nothing has been done to bring it to
being, Horev concluded.

The Health Ministry did not comment directly on the report, but Minister Dan
Naveh said at a conference on Tuesday that economic growth must lead to
increased budgets for health care.

"Investment in better medical care today will reduce disease and cut health
expenditures in the future," he said. Naveh said that next year, he will insist
on an expansion of the basket of health service, improved hospital neonatal
intensive care unit, improved radiotherapy facilities, and renewed hospital
infrastructure. "We have presented the Treasury with multi- year plans for these
purposes. These topics are our main targets for 2005, and we will fight for
them," he declared.

Meanwhile, the Central Bureau of Statistics said that national expenditures per
capita on mental health dropped by 1 percent in 2003, compared to a 1% increase
in 2001 and 2002 and a 2% rise in 1999 and 2000. National expenditures for
health services in general were NIS 46 billion last year or 8.8% of the gross
domestic product. This compares to 14.6% in the US, and 9.5% to 11.2% in
countries such as Canada, Germany, Switzerland, France, Greece, and Iceland.

Citizens personally covered 31% of national health expenditures, compared to 30%
in 2002; this figure does not include health taxes deducted monthly from
residents' paychecks. Only 41% of national health expenditures came from the
national budget through transfers to health funds; other non-profit
organizations; supply of health services via government institutions; and funds
for infrastructure and supplies in government hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             346 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

Advisory Council approves draft Health Insurance Law

LENGTH: 371  words


The Advisory Council (Al Shura)  has approved the draft Health Insurance Law at
a meeting chaired by its president, HE Mohamed bin Mubarak al-Khulaifi, local
daily Arrayah has reported.


The council has also recommended that domestic workers be exempted from payment
of the  insurance premium. Provisions of the law will apply to all Qatari
nationals, GCC nationals, residents of the State of Qatar and visitors,
according to the report.
The government will be responsible of payment of health insurance premium for
nationals and employers will have to pay the premium for their foreign employees
and their resident family members.
The first stage will include treatment in hospitals, followed by specialised
clinics and primary health care, the report says.
There will be four stages of implementation of the Health Insurance Law. The
first envisages immediate implementation of the law for Qatari women, the second
for all Qatari nationals, the third for resident employees and their families
and the fourth for workers. All these stages will be fully implemented by 2016.
Meanwhile, the Ministry of Heath has said domestic workers will be excluded from
the health insurance system and it will build three hospitals for them at
Sanaiya, Mesaieed and Ras Laffan. However, a recommendation will be made by the
council to exempt this category of workers from payment of insurance premium.
A section of members of the council has said it is not necessary to offer
absolute exemption to domestic workers but medicines can be sold to them at
nominal rates, says the report.
Al-Attiyah attends climate meeting
HE the Chairman of Qatar's Administrative Control and Transparency Authority
(ACTA), Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah, who is also President of the UN Climate
Change Conference (COP18) has participated in the 4th Ministerial Meeting of the
Petersburg Climate Change Dialogue, in Berlin.
The session was attended by Qatar's Ambassador to Germany Abdulrahman Mohamed
al-khulaifi and members of the delegation accompanying al-Attiyah.
Real estate  transactions
Transactions between April 28 and May 2 for the real estate sales contracts
registered at the Ministry of justice are worth QR1,144,479,955, the Ministry
said in its weekly report.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             347 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                 Life & Health Insurance Protection Association

                                 P.O. Box 36009
                               Denver,  CO 80236
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (303) 292-5022
URL: www.lhipa.org

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 7

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   The Life and Health Insurance Protection Association is a nonprofit
organization made up of member companies from the life and health insurance
industry that are licensed to sell annuities, life and/or health insurance
products in Colorado.  Why was the Life and Health Insurance Protection
Association formed?  The Colorado Legislature enacted a law (The Life and Health
Insurance Protection Association Act) authorizing the formation of this
organization to assist Colorado residents who hold annuities, life, or health
insurance policies issued by insurance carriers who become insolvent.  What
Colorado law gives authority to the Life and Health Insurance Protection
Association?  House bill 91-1325, Article 20, Life and Health Insurance
Protection Association Act, which became law on July 1, 1991.  Who does the Life
and Health Insurance Protection Association help?  Except under certain very
restrictive conditions, in order to be covered by the Life and Health Insurance
Protection Association, a person must be a resident of Colorado. In addition,
assistance is not available if the insurer was unable to meet its obligations or
was declared insolvent by a court before July 1, 1991.  Where does the
Association get its funds?  The Association charges annual fees to its members.
It will also assess the members following a determination that certain insurers'
policies will be covered. These fees are then used to pay the claims of Colorado
residents who hold policies issued by life and

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                             348 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Employers may opt to pay penalty vs. workers' health care

BYLINE: CLAYTON PARKBUSINESS WRITER, CLAYTON PARK - BUSINESS WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 430  words

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH


DAYTONA BEACH -- Some employers, faced with the federal mandate to either start
providing workers with health insurance coverage four years from now or pay a
penalty, may very well choose the latter, a local hospital executive predicts.

Jeff Feasel, president and CEO of Halifax Health, said some employees of small
businesses exempt from the new law also could opt to pay the annual penalty
rather than buy their own health insurance as required by the new federal law.

That's because the annual penalties for failing to comply with the new law were
set too low, said Feasel, head of the area's largest hospital.

Under the new Affordable Care Act signed into law in March, businesses with 50
or more employees that fail to provide workers with health insurance coverage by
2014 would only pay a penalty of $2,000 per employee.

Employees of exempt small businesses who fail to comply with the new law by 2014
would be assessed an annual penalty of only $95 -- a veritable savings compared
with the cost of buying their own health insurance even with the federal tax
credit they would be eligible to receive to partially offset that cost, Feasel
said.

Setting penalties too low for failing to comply with the new law is one of the
"fundamental flaws" in the Affordable Care Act, said Feasel, who spoke to a
lunchtime gathering of the Daytona Regional Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday.

Despite that and other flaws he sees in the new law, Feasel told his audience he
was glad the controversial health care reform bill finally was approved.

The nation's current health care system was clearly unsustainable from an
economic standpoint, said Feasel, who noted rising health care costs had driven
the number of people in this country without health insurance to nearly 50
million -- a number that likely would have kept growing.

The good news is that we're going to insure more people," thanks to health care
reform, Feasel said in an interview after his speech. "The question is, at what
price?"

Feasel, a registered Republican, said any changes to the new law will likely be
"tweaks" as opposed to a wholesale rollback even if the GOP regains control of
Congress in the upcoming mid-term elections. That's because President Barack
Obama still would have veto power, he said.

To truly improve the nation's health care system, more changes to the new law
will be needed between now and 2014, he said.

At the top of Feasel's list of changes he says should be made to the new law:
including some sort of tort reform as well as adding measures to reduce the
over-use of medical services in our country.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Jeff Feasel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2010 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2010 News-Journal Corporation


                             349 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              April 1, 2013 Monday

'Obamacare' website helps individual Minnesotans determine overhaul's impact

BYLINE: By Christopher Snowbeck csnowbeck@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Natl. Biz Headlines; Minnesota-Twin Cities; News; State;
Business; Health

LENGTH: 913 words


When major provisions of the federal health care law kick in next year, look for
the creation of distinct financial winners -- and losers -- in Minnesota.

Some people likely will pay more for coverage, experts say, while others will
save money with the help of federal subsidies.

A third group -- likely the majority of Minnesotans -- won't see much change at
all.

But who will fall into which category?

A coalition of Minnesota nonprofit groups, including insurers, launched a
website Tuesday, April 2, calledMyHealthCareFuture.org to help people get a
sense for how their health insurance costs and coverage might change under the
new law.

"There is a lot of confusion around the federal health care law," said Kate
Johansen, manager of health policy for the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce, which
is among the groups supporting the new website.

"We are hopeful that this will provide a tool that's neutral, educational and
gives people a general idea of how the (health law) will impact them."

For most people, the law will not bring major changes, said Elaine Cunningham of
the Children's Defense Fund Minnesota, another group that collaborated on the
project.

But for the small share of state residents covered under small-business and
individual health insurance markets, "that's where most people are going to be
affected," she said.

The Minnesota Council of Health Plans, which is the trade group for nonprofit
health insurers in the state, funded development of the online tool, which will
help consumers learn how their situations might change.

Trade group spokeswoman Eileen Smith said that after answering a series of
questions, consumers will get a report that suggests the range of premium
increases or decreases they might see.

She said the online tool is not a calculator, because nobody yet knows the exact
premium rates for 2014. Plus, anyone eligible for subsidies under the law will
have to factor in those tax credits to fully understand its impact on their
out-of-pocket costs.

With the help of the online tool, consumers will be able to determine if they
might be eligible for subsidies or a public health insurance program, Smith
said.

"We did this because there's a lot of information available, but none of that
information is easy to understand," said Smith, who said the questions should
take less than five minutes to answer.

The federal Affordable Care Act, which President Barack Obama signed into law in
March 2010, ushers in a wide variety of changes next year that will affect the
cost and comprehensiveness of health insurance. But the impact on individuals
will vary depending on how they obtain coverage.

About 40 percent of Minnesotans are covered through large-employer plans, Smith
said. The online tool explains how such plans will be subject to a new tax in
2014 as part of the law, but the impact will be relatively minor.

There could be much bigger changes, Smith said, for people who buy individual
health insurance policies without the help of an employer. The same goes for
those covered by small businesses with fewer than 50 people.

Currently, about 348,000 Minnesotans -- about 7 percent of the population --
receive coverage through small-employer plans, Smith said. They could see
premiums and coverage change in four key ways.

The biggest change, Smith said, is that the law will prevent insurers from
basing premiums on the health status of groups. Until now, insurers have given
discounts to relatively healthy small groups while effectively penalizing groups
with workers who use more health care.

As the penalties and discounts go away next year, premiums could decrease for
some small-employer groups in Minnesota by up to 22 percent, Smith said, while
increasing by as much as 26 percent for other small employers.

Small-employer groups also will face more taxes related to the law, Smith said,
although some variables could push the tax toll up or down. The online tool
walks consumers through these variables, Smith said, as well as other potential
changes for small groups such as new federal limits on out-of-pocket costs.

Many of the same variables are at play for people who obtain coverage on the
individual health insurance market, but the online tool also shows the impact
from others.

Consumers on the individual market, however, are expected to see premium savings
from improved competition. The law requires state-level health exchanges to be
functioning in all 50 states by October, and those marketplaces are intended to
improve competition in the individual health insurance market.

About 220,000 Minnesotans were covered through these policies in 2011, but the
number is expected to double because of federal subsidies for many purchases as
well as tax penalties starting next year for people who don't have coverage.

Marc Conklin, a self-employed writer who was hired to help develop the online
tool, said he likely will pay more for health insurance next year because of the
law. But the analysis of winners and losers, Conklin said, has short- and
long-term aspects to it.

The bottom line, he said, is many people just don't know much about the federal
law.

"People who support the law tend to see it as a panacea," Conklin wrote in an
email. "People who are against it tend to see it as welfare. The truth, as
always, is a lot more complicated."

Christopher Snowbeck can be reached at 651-228-5479.

FYI

MyHealthCareFuture.org is available for all Minnesota residents who want answers
to how the Affordable Care Act will affect them.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             350 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Trust (Abuja)

                               February 13, 2016

Delta to Get Health Commission

BYLINE: Ojoma Akor

LENGTH: 268 words


Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has signed the bill for the state's
Contributory Health Commission into law.

A statement from the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) signed by its
spokesman, Ayo Osinlu, said with the signing of the bill into law, Delta State
becomes the second state in the country after Lagos to establish a statutory
agency for health insurance.

The passage of the bill into law is in consonance with the new policy thrust of
the National Health Insurance Scheme to devolve its sole regulatory powers to
state governments to enable them run their own health insurance agencies.

At the signing ceremony, the acting Executive Secretary of the National Health
Insurance Scheme, Mr. Femi Akingbade, commended the governor, saying health
insurance is the best form of healthcare financing in the world, with special
reference to meeting the healthcare needs of the poor, the vulnerable and the
socially excluded.

While applauding the speed with which the bill was processed by the state House
of Assembly, Akingbade said the collaboration between the NHIS and Delta State,
especially in the provision of technical and financial support by the agency,
has proven to be a worthy exercise.

The NHIS boss said that the establishment of the commission was only a first
step in the right direction, as the main challenge lies ahead, which is the
effective implementation of the Contributory Healthcare Scheme, created by the
new law.

The Delta state governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, said that the only way to
achieve universal health coverage in the country was for states to buy into
health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             351 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday

CBO frowns on change to 30 hour Obama health law rule

LENGTH: 335  words


Congressional budget analysts say a Republican plan to change the threshold in
the Obama health law for employer health coverage would raise the deficit by
over $7 billion a year, cost a million people health insurance coverage and
increase the number of uninsured Americans by up to 500,000.


"This estimate reveals just how dangerous the Affordable Care Act repeal agenda
is to the American people," said Rep. Sandy Levin (D-MI), as Democrats trumpeted
a rare piece of good political news for their party from the Congressional
Budget Office.
In evaluating the plan from Republicans in the House, the CBO said the switch
from a 30 hour threshold for insurance coverage to 40 hours per week would
"reduce the amount of penalties collected from employers."
In all, the CBO estimated the GOP plan would actually increase the federal
budget deficit by $73.7 billion over ten years.
The CBO also found this GOP bill would:
+ Reduce - by about one million - the number of people who are receiving health
insurance from their employer
+ Push between 500,000 and 1 million people into getting health coverage through
the health insurance exchanges, or from Medicaid and children's health insurance
programs
+ Increase the number of Americans without health insurance "by less than
500,000 people."
The GOP bill, known as the "Save American Workers Act of 2013," would change the
30 hour per week threshold in the Obama health law that is used to define a
"full-time employee" for the purpose of determining possible penalties for
employers not offering health insurance to their workers. The 30 hour rule would
be increased to 40 hours.
Republicans charge the 30 hour threshold is pushing employers to cut hours for
their workers, to make sure those employees don't have to be offered health
insurance.
GOP lawmakers say the evidence shows many Americans are being shifted to
part-time work, but a recent CBO review on the economic impact of the Obama
health law did not agree with that assessment.© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             352 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Daily Yomiuri

                          September 28, 1995, Thursday

Court rejects health insurance for illegal alien

BYLINE: Yomiuri Shimbun

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


The Tokyo District Court on Wednesday rejected a lawsuit filed by a 29-year-old
Philippine woman against Adachi Ward, Tokyo, demanding that she be issued a
health insurance certificate, which she had been refused on the ground that her
visa had expired.

The woman claimed she was entitled to coverage by the National Health Insurance
plan because she pays taxes as a resident.

It was the first such decision concerning the government-run insurance plan as
it pertains to about 290,000 foreigners staying illegally in Japan.

The ruling is expected to have major repercussions for foreigners forced to pay
large medical bills due to a lack of health insurance coverage, as well as
medical institutions shouldering massive unpaid bills of illegal residents.

The woman entered Japan illegally in March 1989. She married a Japanese in
October 1991 and subsequently gave birth to a daughter. Her visa had expired by
March 1993 when her husband died, the ruling said.

The woman then applied for special permission to remain in Japan with the goal
of becoming a permanent resident, and immigration authorities are still
considering that request.

She then applied for a National Health Insurance certificate in May 1993 at the
ward office in Adachi Ward, where she had lived for more than four years.

After her application for health insurance was rejected by the ward office
because of her expired visa, the woman filed complaints with the Tokyo
metropolitan government's screening committee that determines eligibility for
National Health Insurance coverage, but again was turned down.

According to the National Health Insurance Law, an applicant need only have a
fixed address to join the plan. Thus a focal point in the lawsuit was whether a
foreigner staying illegally could be considered a legitimate resident.

The plaintiff did not have a registered residence but was entered in government
records as a de facto householder when she registered her daughter as a
resident.

She had paid residence and other taxes on rental income she earned from real
estate left to her by her husband.

Presiding Judge Hisao Sato said Wednesday that the plaintiff's demand was
understandable in light of the circumstances of her residence.

However, he said she could not be considered a legitimate resident because she
had entered and then remained in Japan illegally.

The judge said foreigners without proper visas should not be allowed to join the
health insurance plan because it is based on the principle of mutual support of
residents.

The plaintiff had also claimed that foreigners are not ordered to leave Japan
immediately when their visas expire and are granted special permission to remain
in some cases. The woman maintained that such permission was likely to be
granted in her case.

However, the ruling said that, unless such permission were granted, she could
only be regarded as an illegal resident.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1995 The Daily Yomiuri


                             353 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday

Sebelius misstates law

LENGTH: 401  words


Misstating the health care law she is responsible for administering, Kathleen
Sebelius has asserted that the law required health insurance sign-ups to start
Oct. 1, whether the system was ready or not. In fact, the decision when to
launch the sign-up website was hers.


The troubled debut of the government's health insurance enrollment website has
raised questions about whether its start date should have been delayed to allow
testing and repairs before it went live. Asked last week whether that might have
been the wiser course, Sebelius, the health and human services secretary, said
that wasn't possible because the law required an Oct. 1 launch.
In a visit to a community health center in Austin, Texas, on Friday, Sebelius
acknowledged more testing would have been preferable. "In an ideal world there
would have been a lot more testing, but we did not have the luxury of that and
the law said the go-time was Oct. 1," she said.
But the law imposed no legal requirement to open the website Oct. 1. The law
says only that the enrollment period shall be "as determined by the secretary."
The launch date was set not in the law, but in regulations her department had
issued. Agencies routinely allow themselves flexibility on self-imposed
deadlines.
Officials could have postponed open enrollment by a month, or they could have
phased in access to the website. Oregon, one of the 14 states that built its own
website under the federal law, did just that, allowing initial website access
only for counselors instead of the general public.
Larry Levitt, health insurance expert at the Kaiser Family Foundation, said that
in setting the sign-up start date the administration had to balance three
competing interests: keeping the enrollment period short enough to prevent
people from waiting to see whether they developed a health condition that needed
insurance; keeping the period long enough to allow consumers to learn about
their options; and allowing enough time to have the sign-up system ready for an
onslaught of applications.
"Looking in the rear-view window, the systems obviously weren't ready by Oct. 1
and a delay would have allowed for a smoother launch," he said.
In the Texas appearance, Sebelius also pointed to a more likely reason behind
the urgency to launch: politics, and in particular a government shutdown over
the issue.
"A political atmosphere .  .  . was not an ideal atmosphere," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             354 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                             March 18, 2008 Tuesday

State punishes the uninsured

BYLINE: Letters

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 541 words


I am a Berkshire County resident, who is disgusted and angry with the mandated
health insurance law.

The thought of forced health insurance is outrageous for Americans to swallow.
However, considering the commonwealth of Massachusetts already misuses
taxpayers' money by footing the bill for illegals' health care, it doesn't come
as a total shock it also devised this "law" to rip off more residents out of
their hard earned income.

Hence, under the guise of "universal health care," Massachusetts has become the
first state to force health insurance down the throat of law-abiding citizens;
and the first state to threaten its residents with severe penalties if they
don't conform. There are no carrots in this plan, only sticks and evil schemes.

I thought the primary purpose of universal health care was to provide
"affordable" health services for all residents, not punish the uninsured, twice.
Initially, it requires a huge number of people that do not qualify for free or
subsidized insurance to purchase it at exorbitant premiums. Subsequently, it
imposes stiff fines, hiked at will, on those that reject this plan. To ensure no
one escapes its grip, the state has tied health insurance to income tax returns!

As an uninsured, healthy individual, a taxpayer, I'd like to know what business
has the state to strong-arm me or any other resident into buying insurance? Why
after my taxes go to subsidize others' freebies, I am put in a position to have
to choose whether to pay my mortgage or the health insurance premiums?

I did not ask the state to provide me with health insurance. What right does the
state have to determine how much each individual or family is able to afford
based primarily on age and revenue? No two families' needs and income are alike.
Why does the state presume it is wiser in making choices than we are?

The list of grievances with this law is bigger and deeper than the affordability
issue. Some examples: The "estate recovery program" that applies to people 55
and older who sign into the Commonwealth Care plan. These individuals are not
told when signing on this plan, that they are also, giving their assets over to
the state. Why?

The invasion of privacy that allows 20-plus agencies (including the D.O.R.) to
share every resident's personal and medical info without any accountability.
Don't they know it is in direct contrast with the federal HIPAA law created to
protect our medical information?

The 4 to 5 percent kickback the connector authority receives for every policy
sold. This newly created agency is comprised of 43 bureaucrats whose high
salaries we are financing! The penalties for those who will not purchase the
insurance are treated as a tax evasion! There are no "robust" or "generous"
waivers as advertised by the Connector. People need to be destitute to receive a
waiver.

Any change of income by residents has to be reported immediately to the
Department of Revenue so your premiums can be "adjusted." Medical providers are
required to report any services to the Connector, even if paid in cash!

This law was not conceived to benefit the residents of Massachusetts, but rather
greedy politicians and bureaucrats who have forgotten they work for us, not the
other way around.

ELISA POPLASKI
Pittsfield

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             355 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Obamacare subsidies upheld by US court

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 233 words


The justices said in a 6-3 ruling the subsidies 8.7m people currently receive to
make insurance affordable do not depend on where they live under the 2010
healthcare law.

Chief Justice John Roberts again voted with his liberal colleagues in support of
the law. He was also the key vote to uphold the law in 2012.

Nationally, 10.2m people have signed up for health insurance under the Obama
health overhaul. That includes the 8.7m people who are receiving an average
subsidy of $272 ( 242) a month to help pay their insurance premiums.

Of those receiving subsidies, 6.4m people were at risk of losing that aid
because they live in states that did not set up their own health insurance
exchanges.

The challenge devised by die-hard opponents of the law relied on four words
established by the state   in the more than 900-page law.

The law s opponents argued that the vast majority of people who now get help
paying for their insurance premiums are ineligible for their federal tax
credits.

That is because roughly three dozen states opted against creating their own
health insurance marketplaces or exchanges, and rely on the federal
healthcare.gov to help people find coverage if they don t get insurance through
work or the government.

In the challengers  view, the phrase  established by the state  demonstrated
that subsidies were to be available only to people in states that set up their
own exchanges.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             356 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                              June 29, 2012 Friday

Republicans discredit their own health insurance overhaul with attack on Obama's
plan

LENGTH: 579 words


Maine Republicans are assailing President Barack Obama's health care law by
saying it amounts to a tax increase. Not only are they wrong, but it appears
their memories are a little selective. Their own health insurance overhaul last
year, which they will continue to champion on their campaign trails, included a
tax.


If Republicans are going to argue against the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act, they should first make sure they're not also delegitimizing their own
law.


The Republican argument stems from the fact that five justices agreed on
Thursday that the penalty people must pay if they refuse to purchase health
insurance is a kind of tax. Because Congress has taxing power, the requirement
that virtually all Americans buy insurance is constitutional.


But even though the swing vote came from a conservative -- Justice John Roberts
Jr. -- and even though Maine Republicans last year passed a health insurance
reform bill, LD 1333, that included a provision to add a $4 charge to the
monthly premium of Mainers with private coverage, some in the GOP argue the
health care act is wrong because its legality is based on tax law.


"This massive tax hike will only destroy the American economy as it forces us
over the financial cliff," reads a press release from Gov. Paul LePage's office
issued after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled Thursday that Obama's health care law
is constitutional.


Maine Senate President Kevin Raye, who is running for the U.S. House, called it
"an unprecedented coercive new tax." Olympia Snowe, Maine's retiring Republican
senator, said it will "impose an onerous tax."


The law, however, is not projected to equate to a tax increase for the vast
majority of Mainers or Americans. Most people already have insurance through
their employers, Medicaid or Medicare. An Urban Institute study found that of
the 26.3 million people currently uninsured, about 70 percent of them qualify
for tax credits to help them pay for a qualified plan.


Just 7.3 million people, or 2 percent of the population, will not be offered
financial assistance under the health care law and will be subject to penalties
if they do not obtain coverage. The idea that the health care law amounts to a
tax hike for many Americans is simply wrong.


In fact, studies show that the law will lower costs for Americans. The nonprofit
Families USA estimates that by 2019 more than 500,000 Maine families will be
better off by an average $1,685 per year because of the law.


The misinformation-spreading by Republicans comes on the heels of them actually
implementing a health insurance tax. Just a year ago, their health reform law
aimed to lower costs for young, healthy Mainers by putting higher-cost
policyholders in a special pool and then defraying the costs of their insurance
by having a monthly tax of $4 assessed on all other policyholders.


The $4 tax was designed to replace a charge on health insurance claims that
Mainers paid to keep the Dirigo Health program in operation. People legitimized
it by saying it would be less than the annual Dirigo assessment. But it is still
a tax.


No one likes the word "tax," but Mainers should remember that our state's
transportation infrastructure, schools, police forces and much of our health
care system all are possible because of tax dollars. Republicans should gather
their facts before they claim the health care law means a tax increase. And if a
health insurance tax is bad now, they should explain why it wasn't bad in 2011.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Bangor Daily News


                             357 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday

Study: Fewer firms to offer health plans

BYLINE: JAN NORMAN Register writer, The Orange County Register

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D

LENGTH: 397 words


The new federal health care law may significantly reduce the number of Americans
who get their health insurance through their employer, according to a new report
from the management consulting firm McKinsey & Company.

In a survey of 1,300 employers, 30 percent said they definitely or probably will
stop offering employee health insurance in 2014, when most provisions of the law
go into effect.

Among employers that say they know a lot about the changes, more than 50 percent
say they will find alternatives to employment-based health insurance.

These numbers are much higher than other studies, McKinsey acknowledges.

For example, the Congressional Budget Office has estimated that only 7 percent
of employees who currently have health insurance through their employers will
have to switch to government-provided health exchanges.

But the McKinsey report defends the results, saying that its pollsters explained
the new law and options to dropping coverage completely.

The federal Affordable Care Act passed in 2010 requires beginning in 2014 all
employers of 50 or more workers to provide a reasonable level of health coverage
or pay a penalty of $2,000 per worker (not counting the first 30 employees) and
not to offer better benefits to highly paid employees.

Individuals who don't have employer-provided insurance or are unemployed can get
subsidies to buy policies through new insurance exchanges created by the states.

Proponents have argued that more people will be insured because of the new law.

According to The Commonwealth Fund, 46 percent of firms with fewer than 10
employees and 52 percent of firms with fewer than 50 employees offer health
insurance, compared with 98 percent of companies with 200 or more employees.

Earlier this year, 76 percent of employers told the consulting firm Mercer that
they expected their costs to increase under the new law.

The McKinsey report said that many employers weren't merely considering their
own bottom line but also realized that lower-wage workers will be able to get
better health coverage at less cost through the exchanges.

And about half of companies that offer health coverage now were more interested
in alternatives, such as defined-contribution policies and increasing workers'
wages to offset their costs of buying insurance through an exchange, than in
dropping coverage completely.



714-796-7927 or jnorman@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             358 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times Herald (California)

                           November 6, 2013 Wednesday

Deal delays California's insurance policy cancellations

BYLINE: Published By Times Herald

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 621 words


By Don Thompson/Associated Press

SACRAMENTO -- California's insurance commissioner announced an agreement Tuesday
with one of the state's major health insurance companies to delay the
cancellation of more than 115,000 individual policies under the new federal
health care law.

The agreement with Commissioner Dave Jones will let policyholders keep their
lower-priced policies through the first three months of 2014.

Blue Shield of California Life and Health Insurance Co. planned to cancel
individual and family health insurance policies on Dec. 31. Jones objected that
the company gave policy holders just 90 days' notice when it should have given
six months' notice.

The agreement requires Blue Shield to send new notices to its customers starting
Wednesday, letting them know they can keep their individual policies if they
wish, at the existing price and with the existing medical provider network.
Jones projected that if all of the Blue Shield policyholders keep their existing
plans, they could save a cumulative $28.6 million.

But he also said policyholders who are eligible for federal premium subsidies
through Covered California, which runs the state's health insurance exchange,
will likely want to choose new policies by Dec. 15 so they can begin receiving
the subsidies starting Jan. 1.

Jones criticized health insurers and Covered California for jointly agreeing
that all existing policies should be canceled at the end of this year. Small
businesses were allowed to renew their policies past the end of the year, and
Jones said in a statement that individuals and families should be given the same
leeway.

Neither state nor federal law requires such cancellations, Jones said, and
existing policies offer benefits that include a broader network of medical
providers and lower costs for consumers whose incomes are too high to be
eligible for premium subsidies. New policies must meet the requirements of the
federal health care law, but Janice Rocco, deputy commissioner of health care
reform and policy, said in a telephone interview that old policies can continue
into 2014 even if they fall short.

Covered California spokesman Santiago Lucero did not return a telephone message.
But Blue Shield spokesman Steve Shivinsky said the exchange and insurers made
the right choice in attempting to cancel all individual policies at year's end.

"We need the largest number of individuals, healthy or otherwise, to be in the
risk pool as early as possible to balance the risk ... across all ages and
health status," Shivinsky said.

He said the company agreed to the delay when Jones threatened a lawsuit. He
disputed Jones' contention that the company was required to provide a lengthier
notice.

The delayed deadline could cause confusion for policyholders, Shivinsky said. It
might force consumers to start their annual deductible over again on April 1,
and eligible consumers could miss out on tax credits and cost-sharing subsidies
if they wait.

No agreements with other insurers are in the works because the insurance
regulators know of no other insurance company that did not provide proper notice
to its customers, Jones said during a news conference at his office.

Jones said Blue Shield was unique among the state's insurers in having to
provide 180 days' notice before canceling policies, instead of the usual 90
days. That's because it withdrew its policies from regulation under the state
Department of Insurance, which he said triggered a longer notice requirement.

The regulatory switch provided the company with a $107 million tax benefit,
Jones said. Shivinsky said the decision was made to save administrative costs
because most of the company's policies already were regulated by the Department
of Managed Health Care.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             359 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Health Insurance Is A Life Savor For Joshua Benson And Millions Of
Others

LENGTH: 503  words

DATELINE: Washington


Generation Progress has issued the following news release:

If you have any doubts about the benefits of the new health insurance law, then
Joshua's story should inspire you.

Joshua Kurt Benson, 28, lives in Delray Beach, FL and has an affordable platinum
health insurance plan--he receives a $212 federal subsidy every month.

For Benson, health insurance is not only important, it's essential. At the age
of 21, Benson was diagnosed with acute idiopathic pancreatitis. His condition
eventually became chronic, forcing him into withdraw from classes.
unnamed

CREDIT: Joshua Kurt Benson

But his condition worsened.

At 24, Benson recalls a major surgery he had at the University of Minnesota, "I
had a total pancreatectomy with auto-islet transplant. My pancreas, spleen,
appendix, duodenum, part of my stomach and part of my intestines were all
removed, rendering me an insulin-dependent Type I Diabetic."

Without insurance, Benson was shelling out $1,000 a month just for his insulin.
Now, because of the Affordable Care Act, he spends $30 for a three-month supply.

Additionally, Benson regularly sees an endocrinologist, as well as a primary
care physician, to stay on top of his health. Overall, the Affordable Care Act
has improved Benson's health and quality of life.

Not only does he have a better insurance plan, but also he has a better
livelihood and is able to save money for a rainy day, or for future
homeownership. This is great for Benson and countless young Americans who are
gaining insurance--an estimated 3 to 4 million young Americans have gained
health insurance since the ACA roll out last year.

The law is certainly imperfect though.

A new report by WebMD alleges that some insurance companies are using loopholes
in the health law to unreasonably up-charge patients with preexisting conditions
through co-pays and deductibles.

Specifically, the report alleges that some insurance companies are "adverse
tiering" drugs needed to treat HIV. Someone with HIV could potentially pay
$3,000 a year due to this shady effort. This is one way that insurance companies
are resisting mandates to cover preexisting conditions.

We must move forward by ensuring that every American--including young
Americans--have access to secure, affordable health insurance without the risk
of surcharges or adverse tiering. The law's intent is clear, and for Benson, the
law gives him the security to have health insurance despite having a preexisting
condition that could have otherwise stopped him from gaining insurance.

Benson is one of countless Americans helped by the new health law, but more
needs to be done to protect those who are being discriminated by the system.

Here's a proposal: Republicans come together with Democrats to fix the law's
shortfalls, instead of recklessly and constantly attempting to repeal it
entirely.

Amir Salehzadeh is a reporter for Generation Progress. Follow him on Twitter
@amirsalehzadeh.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             360 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: Health Insurance Is A Life Savor For Joshua Benson And Millions Of
Others

LENGTH: 503  words

DATELINE: Washington


Generation Progress has issued the following news release:

If you have any doubts about the benefits of the new health insurance law, then
Joshua's story should inspire you.

Joshua Kurt Benson, 28, lives in Delray Beach, FL and has an affordable platinum
health insurance plan--he receives a $212 federal subsidy every month.

For Benson, health insurance is not only important, it's essential. At the age
of 21, Benson was diagnosed with acute idiopathic pancreatitis. His condition
eventually became chronic, forcing him into withdraw from classes.
unnamed

CREDIT: Joshua Kurt Benson

But his condition worsened.

At 24, Benson recalls a major surgery he had at the University of Minnesota, "I
had a total pancreatectomy with auto-islet transplant. My pancreas, spleen,
appendix, duodenum, part of my stomach and part of my intestines were all
removed, rendering me an insulin-dependent Type I Diabetic."

Without insurance, Benson was shelling out $1,000 a month just for his insulin.
Now, because of the Affordable Care Act, he spends $30 for a three-month supply.

Additionally, Benson regularly sees an endocrinologist, as well as a primary
care physician, to stay on top of his health. Overall, the Affordable Care Act
has improved Benson's health and quality of life.

Not only does he have a better insurance plan, but also he has a better
livelihood and is able to save money for a rainy day, or for future
homeownership. This is great for Benson and countless young Americans who are
gaining insurance--an estimated 3 to 4 million young Americans have gained
health insurance since the ACA roll out last year.

The law is certainly imperfect though.

A new report by WebMD alleges that some insurance companies are using loopholes
in the health law to unreasonably up-charge patients with preexisting conditions
through co-pays and deductibles.

Specifically, the report alleges that some insurance companies are "adverse
tiering" drugs needed to treat HIV. Someone with HIV could potentially pay
$3,000 a year due to this shady effort. This is one way that insurance companies
are resisting mandates to cover preexisting conditions.

We must move forward by ensuring that every American--including young
Americans--have access to secure, affordable health insurance without the risk
of surcharges or adverse tiering. The law's intent is clear, and for Benson, the
law gives him the security to have health insurance despite having a preexisting
condition that could have otherwise stopped him from gaining insurance.

Benson is one of countless Americans helped by the new health law, but more
needs to be done to protect those who are being discriminated by the system.

Here's a proposal: Republicans come together with Democrats to fix the law's
shortfalls, instead of recklessly and constantly attempting to repeal it
entirely.

Amir Salehzadeh is a reporter for Generation Progress. Follow him on Twitter
@amirsalehzadeh.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             361 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday

Washington: Health Insurance Is A Life Savor For Joshua Benson And Millions Of
Others

LENGTH: 503  words

DATELINE: Washington


Generation Progress has issued the following news release:

If you have any doubts about the benefits of the new health insurance law, then
Joshua's story should inspire you.

Joshua Kurt Benson, 28, lives in Delray Beach, FL and has an affordable platinum
health insurance plan--he receives a $212 federal subsidy every month.

For Benson, health insurance is not only important, it's essential. At the age
of 21, Benson was diagnosed with acute idiopathic pancreatitis. His condition
eventually became chronic, forcing him into withdraw from classes.
unnamed

CREDIT: Joshua Kurt Benson

But his condition worsened.

At 24, Benson recalls a major surgery he had at the University of Minnesota, "I
had a total pancreatectomy with auto-islet transplant. My pancreas, spleen,
appendix, duodenum, part of my stomach and part of my intestines were all
removed, rendering me an insulin-dependent Type I Diabetic."

Without insurance, Benson was shelling out $1,000 a month just for his insulin.
Now, because of the Affordable Care Act, he spends $30 for a three-month supply.

Additionally, Benson regularly sees an endocrinologist, as well as a primary
care physician, to stay on top of his health. Overall, the Affordable Care Act
has improved Benson's health and quality of life.

Not only does he have a better insurance plan, but also he has a better
livelihood and is able to save money for a rainy day, or for future
homeownership. This is great for Benson and countless young Americans who are
gaining insurance--an estimated 3 to 4 million young Americans have gained
health insurance since the ACA roll out last year.

The law is certainly imperfect though.

A new report by WebMD alleges that some insurance companies are using loopholes
in the health law to unreasonably up-charge patients with preexisting conditions
through co-pays and deductibles.

Specifically, the report alleges that some insurance companies are "adverse
tiering" drugs needed to treat HIV. Someone with HIV could potentially pay
$3,000 a year due to this shady effort. This is one way that insurance companies
are resisting mandates to cover preexisting conditions.

We must move forward by ensuring that every American--including young
Americans--have access to secure, affordable health insurance without the risk
of surcharges or adverse tiering. The law's intent is clear, and for Benson, the
law gives him the security to have health insurance despite having a preexisting
condition that could have otherwise stopped him from gaining insurance.

Benson is one of countless Americans helped by the new health law, but more
needs to be done to protect those who are being discriminated by the system.

Here's a proposal: Republicans come together with Democrats to fix the law's
shortfalls, instead of recklessly and constantly attempting to repeal it
entirely.

Amir Salehzadeh is a reporter for Generation Progress. Follow him on Twitter
@amirsalehzadeh.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             362 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 13, 2013 Friday

First CarolinaCare Insurance cancels plans to offer coverage through Federal
Health Insurance Exchange

BYLINE: Paul Woolverton, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 354 words


Sept. 13--PINEHURST -- Citing "uncertainties," a Moore County insurance company
on Thursday canceled its plans to offer health insurance to the general public
through President Obama's health care reform program.

This leaves the state with only two insurance providers who have said they will
sell policies through the government's Health Insurance Marketplace when it goes
online on Oct. 1.

The Marketplace, also called the Federal Health Insurance Exchange, is a website
where uninsured people will be able to compare prices and coverage and buy
health insurance. It's to help them obey the Affordable Care Act, also called
"Obamacare," the health reform law that says most Americans must obtain health
insurance by Jan. 1.

The Moore County insurance company bowing out of the Marketplace,
FirstCarolinaCare Insurance Co., is owned by FirstHealth of the Carolinas, the
hospital system based in Pinehurst. It planned to offer 16 insurance plans
through the Marketplace to people in Moore, Richmond, Montgomery, Hoke,
Scotland, and Lee counties.

"When we originally proposed participation in the Exchange, we recognized that
there were many unknowns for all of us," said Kenneth J. Lewis, president of
FirstCarolinaCare Insurance. "However, after months of review, there continue to
be uncertainties in the Exchange implementation and processes for insurers.
After further assessment of the uncertainties related to the Exchange and
consideration of our overall business strategy, we reluctantly came to the
conclusion to withdraw our application to participate in the Exchange."

Non-profit Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina announced plans to sell
policies through the Marketplace statewide. Published reports say Coventry
Health Care of the Carolinas also plans to offer coverage, but details have not
been announced.

Coventry is a subsidiary of Aetna.

Staff writer Paul Woolverton can be reached at woolvertonp@fayobserver.com or
910-486-3512.

___ (c)2013 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130913-FY-First-CarolinaCare-Insurance-cancels-plans-to-offer-coverage-through
-Federal-Health-Insurance-Exchange-0913-20130913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2013 The Fayetteville Observer


                             363 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               THE LAWYERS WEEKLY

                            Friday, October 22, 1993

Regulations in the works for medical inadmissibility

SECTION: Vol. 13, No. 23

LENGTH: 287 words


TORONTO - Immigration regulations on medical inadmissibility are imminent.

Benjamin J. Trister of Toronto's Bresver, Grossman told the law society
conference on immigration law that "pre-published" drafts from August received a
lot of comment and are being revised.

The drafts did not come into force this Oct. 1, as planned.

But the government is intent in resolving this matter soon, Mr. Trister said.

The proposals are meant to define excessive demand on Canadian medical services.

They set up three categories:

.  persons who want to immigrate into Canada;

.  visitors with some other status that would entitle them to provincial health
insurance coverage; and

.  other visitors.

Would-be immigrants would be treated as putting too much demand on Canada's
systems if, over the course of five years, they would need more than five times
the annual per capita expenditure on health and social services.

The second group would be kept out if they needed more than annual per capita
expenditure- pro-rated according to how long they would be here.

Other visitors would have to show they had enough money or private health
insurance.

A manual called The Medical Officer's Handbook will show how to calculate the
costs for various illnesses and conditions.

It is not quite ready, but it will be published.

Mr. Trister emphasized that certain publicly-funded social services are also
counted under this system.

These services are meant to help someone "function physically, emotionally,
socially, psychologically or vocationally."

They include:

.  residential services;

.  special education;

.  social and vocational rehabilitation;

.  personal support services; and

.  the provision of "devices."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright © 1993 LexisNexis Canada Inc.


                             364 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             March 5, 2016 Saturday
                                 METRO EDITION

Don't go backward on health coverage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 468 words


With both chambers of the Minnesota Legislature up for election this fall and
all eight U.S. House seats up for grabs, Minnesotans are likely to hear even
more vows from politicians to repeal the Affordable Care Act, a promise
Republican presidential candidates already repeatedly make.

But a new report out from the Minnesota Department of Health and the University
of Minnesota should give pause the next time that pledge is made. Repealing the
law doesn't strike a blow against Obama, who is leaving office. Instead, it
would harm those who benefited from the law's expanded access to health coverage
through medical assistance programs and tax credits to reduce pricey private
insurance premiums.

Many of those aided by the law are friends, family and neighbors - a point
driven home in the report released this week. The number of Minnesotans without
insurance dropped to a record low of 4.3 percent in 2015, compared with a
national uninsured rate estimated at 9.1 percent. That's a reduction of nearly
half since a 2013 state survey.

According to the findings, "more than 200,000 people in Minnesota - including
35,000 children - gained health insurance coverage" during this two-year span.
Many of them had been without insurance for more than a year, suggesting that
health reforms are reaching those who had previously fallen through the system's
cracks.

This is a noteworthy achievement. Access to health care strengthens families,
communities and the state's workforce. Some of the coverage gains should be
attributed to the state's resilient economy, which has enabled workers to keep
their jobs and coverage or obtain a job and benefits (contrary to critics'
concerns about the law, employer coverage has held steady in Minnesota).

But the federal health law and Minnesota's energetic embrace of it deserve
credit, too. The state's health insurance marketplace, MNsure, contributed by
raising awareness of coverage assistance and through its strong outreach to
underserved communities.

Minnesota certainly shouldn't sit on its laurels. Coverage disparities still
exist among minority communities. And there's a stubborn lack of awareness about
public health programs. Many of the remaining uninsured have not taken advantage
of available pathways to coverage.

Improving health insurance should also be a goal. Many of those with new
coverage through the private market have opted for high-deductible "bronze"
plans that may dissuade them from seeking care or leave them with high
out-of-pocket costs. The Legislature needs to drill down this session to improve
the affordability of plans sold on the individual market.

MNsure certainly needs technological and reliability improvements. But the new,
positive numbers show that Minnesota is moving in the right direction. Now is
not the time to go backward.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             365 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Sun (Lowell, Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday

For some, health-insurance reform not so affordable

BYLINE: Hillary Chabot, The Sun, Lowell, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 893 words


Aug. 26--Norma Martino has a problem with the state's health-care reform law,
which promised affordable health insurance for all by July 1.

It's not so affordable.

Martino, 57, doesn't know how she'll come up with $300 a month to comply with
the new law.

"To me, it's extortion," said the Ayer resident. "They're telling people this is
affordable health care, and it's not. It's so awful."

Martino's issue is just one of many those trying to comply with the ambitious
law have run into since it went into effect nearly two months ago. Many, like
Martino, find they are earning just above 300 percent over the poverty line --
around $30,000 a year for a single-person household -- and don't qualify for
state-subsidized health care.

The law, passed last year, means everyone must sign up for health insurance by
Dec. 31 or face tax penalties.

One 67-year-old Lowell woman, who asked to remain anonymous, says it would be
cheaper to ignore the law and take the $219 charge against her taxes. She can't
afford the $608 monthly

premium offered by the cheapest insurance provider.

Dick Powers, spokesman for the group charged with implementing the health-care
law, has a word of caution for those considering flaunting the law: It'll cost
you.

"The penalty will increase dramatically when they go to do their taxes in 2009.
It could go up to $1,000," he said. "More importantly, it's better to have
insurance than not have it, because you don't know what's going to happen
tomorrow."

Powers expects that of the state's estimated 245,000 uninsured residents, about
60,000 will apply and receive an exemption from the individual mandate. That's
because their incomes put them just above the 300-percent-over-poverty
threshold, so they don't qualify for subsidized care, or they are older people
for whom insurance is too expensive for them to afford.

"Our appeals process will be flexible and generous, especially in the first
year," Powers said. "Certainly, we would take into account good-faith efforts
people make to obtain health insurance."

One such case could be Lowell resident John Diamond, who won't be able to get
health insurance until next June because his employers don't offer open
enrollment until then.

"I'm having trouble signing on," Diamond said. "The law said I have to have
insurance by Jan. 1 or face a fine, but I can't because of my employer."

Steve Mallette, co-chairman of the Greater Lowell Chamber of Commerce and owner
of the New England Medical Insurance Agency in Chelmsford, said many
small-business owners are in the dark about their responsibilities.

"They're still very confused. They call their attorneys to explain it to them,
and their attorneys don't know what's going on either," Mallette said. "The
devil is in the details, but the details keep changing."

For example, originally both employers and employees were supposed to fill out
Health Insurance Responsibility Disclosure forms to prove to the state they have
enough health insurance under the new law. But officials at the Health Care
Connector Board recently changed the rules, so only employees have to send in
the forms.

But the biggest problem Mallette's clients complain of is cost.

"This bill, when it was sold to the Legislature, promised to provide affordable
health care to all citizens, and it doesn't," Mallette said. "End of story,"

The idea was also to decrease the burden on taxpayers so they aren't paying for
the uninsured who get care. But Powers admits taxpayers won't be saving with the
new plan.

"The health-care reform is not going to cost less than the previous system did,
but it will provide a more efficient use of health-care dollars. Rather than
treating people in hospital emergency rooms, they will now be more likely to get
preventative care," Powers said.

Some of the neediest residents are in for another shocker when the free-care
pool service stops on Oct. 1. The new rules require those without insurance,
earning $15,200 to $20,400, to pay a small co-pay when they visit a hospital or
community health center, and to pay a monthly $35 premium.

Ellen Murphy Meehan, spokeswoman for the Alliance of Safety Net Hospitals, said
many hospitals won't be able to tell if a patient paid their monthly fee at
another health-care provider. The change also means that hospitals will take on
the cost of many uninsured still left.

"People haven't been signing up for individual health care as quickly as they
expected. It really has taken a lot longer with advertising and promotion for
people to understand what is happening," Meehan said. She represents a group of
hospitals in communities like Lawrence which have a large number of low-income
patients.

"The bottom line is it really should be the responsibility of those who put the
program in place to ensure more people are signed up," Meehan said.

Powers said 170,000 new customers have signed on to either subsidized or
unsubsidized health insurance this year, and the state spent $4 million to
advertise the plan.

To see more of The Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.lowellsun.com. Copyright (c) 2007, The Sun, Lowell, Mass. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070826-LZ-For-some-health-insurance-reform-not-so-affordable-0826

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LZ


                             Copyright 2007 The Sun


                             366 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             August 23, 2013 Friday

Health reform 101

BYLINE: Erin Rhoda BDN Staff

LENGTH: 389 words


Here are the answers to some frequently asked questions about the Affordable
Care Act, from Kaiser Permanente:


What is health reform? Health reform refers to the federal law passed in 2010
called the Affordable Care Act, plus any state laws passed to implement it. The
point of the law is to expand health coverage to more people and improve medical
care.


What do I need to do now? The best thing to do now is learn how health reform
may affect your coverage and get ready for Oct. 1 when the health insurance
marketplaces open.


What are the health insurance marketplaces? Sometimes called "exchanges," the
marketplaces are where you can go to shop for health plans. They are for people
who buy insurance on their own or currently don't have coverage. You will be
able to compare plans, shop for coverage and find out whether you're eligible
for financial assistance. The exchanges open Oct. 1, and the policies take
effect Jan. 1. Visit www.healthcare.gov for information on shopping for
insurance plans offered through state exchanges. Insurers like Anthem also have
websites explaining the impact of the health care reform law.


Do I have to buy from the marketplaces? Not necessarily. You can still get
coverage through your employer, directly from an insurance company or from
Medicare or Medicaid if you're eligible. You will need to purchase a plan from
the marketplace if you want financial help, however.


Who has to buy health insurance? Most U.S. citizens and legal immigrants must
have health coverage starting Jan. 1. Those with certain religious beliefs,
members of Native American tribes, undocumented immigrants, people in prison and
people with income below a certain level will not be required to buy insurance.


What if I can't afford health care coverage? The government will provide
subsidies to help people with certain incomes pay. If you're single, the
qualifying income bracket could be $15,282 to $45,960. For couples,
$20,628-$62,040. For a family of four, $31,322-$94,200.


What happens if I don't buy coverage? If you go without coverage for three
months or longer, starting Jan. 1., you'll face a penalty. If you get coverage
within that three-month grace period, you will not be charged a tax penalty.


Can anyone get coverage? Yes. Under the ACA, insurers can no longer deny people
because of their medical conditions.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Bangor Daily News


                             367 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Group focuses on state health insurance exchange

BYLINE: Misty Williams; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 448 words



HIGHLIGHT: Deal opposes law but appointed committee. Governor expects to get
recommendations for Georgia-based solutions.


A group of health care experts, consumer advocates, lawmakers and state
officials voted Tuesday to pursue legislation options for creating a Georgia
health insurance exchange.

Gov. Nathan Deal, while opposing the federal health care overhaul, appointed the
committee in June to study whether the state should design its own insurance
marketplace --- a key part of the overhaul. The federal government will set up
exchanges for states that opt out of running their own.

"This is really the pivotal first question that needed to be answered," said
Blake Fulenwider, the governor's health policy adviser.

Using the health insurance exchange, consumers who don't have coverage through
their employers will shop for options offered by private companies. It will also
determine if someone qualifies for Medicaid, the government program that
provides coverage for low-income Americans. A separate exchange would allow
small-business owners to shop for plans to cover workers.

Even in opposition, Deal said earlier this year that it made sense to study
Georgia-based solutions while the courts decided whether the law is
unconstitutional. The group chose Tuesday to create a subcommittee that will
focus on alternative plans if a portion or all of the law is thrown out by the
courts.

Last week, a three-judge panel of the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta
ruled the federal law's individual mandate --- requiring most people to buy
health insurance in 2014 or face a fine --- was unconstitutional. The decision
moved the argument closer to the U.S. Supreme Court.

"Any good business in doing strategy planning needs to have contingency plans,"
said Ron Bachman, CEO of Healthcare Visions, which promotes free market-based
health care solutions.

The potential for dramatic changes remains, Bachman said, because a Republican
Congress might decide not to fund billions of dollars in federal tax credits to
help consumers pay insurance premiums.

Regardless of the health care law's fate, Georgia needs to solve the health care
problems of cost, access and quality and make the market functional, Bachman
said.

The committee has been focused on the industry side of things, but it shouldn't
lose sight of consumers, said Cindy Zeldin, executive director for the nonprofit
Georgians for a Healthy Future. Roughly 1.9 million Georgians are uninsured and
will have access to a health plan or Medicaid through the exchange.

In the coming months, the committee will examine a host of issues --- including
who should run the exchange, how to make the system financially self-sustaining
and its impact on the overall insurance market. It must issue a final list of
recommendations to the governor by December.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2011 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             368 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday

Red Sox, state team up to make pitch for new health-care law

BYLINE: By Hillary Chabot, hchabot@lowellsun.com

SECTION: RED SOX; Today's Headlines

LENGTH: 305 words


BOSTON -- Buy me some peanuts and health insurance just isn't as catchy.

But the Boston Red Sox are pitching in anyway to spread the word about a state
law requiring every resident to have health care as of July 1. They'll announce
an ad campaign at Fenway Park today.

Officials charged with implementing the law say the television advertising
campaign is one of the ways they plan on getting the word out.

"With the mandate so close (it) makes sense to launch a public-information
campaign to make people aware of the law and to make people aware of what
choices they have," said Dick Powers, spokesman for the Health Insurance
Connector Authority.

Gov. Deval Patrick, House Speaker Sal DiMasi, Senate President Therese Murray,
and Red Sox CEO Larry Lucchino will preview the television advertisement on the
big screens at Fenway today. State officials will also set up a booth at the
historic park to help teach residents about the landmark health-care insurance
law.

Most residents would face tax penalties if they fail to sign up for health
insurance by the July 1 deadline. The state would require health-care coverage
costing about $159 a month for those currently uninsured. Employers also must
make sure their health insurance complies with the state's standards.

Officials would not provide details about the advertisement or discuss how the
campaign came about, but according to a source who saw one of the ads it
featured real people talking about their health issues. None of the Red Sox
players were in the advertisement.

About 372,000 state residents don't have health insurance, although 70,000
residents have signed up for Commonwealth Care, a health-insurance program meant
for residents making three times the federal poverty level or less a year. The
state made Commonwealth Choice available at the beginning of the year.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             369 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 16, 1994, Wednesday, FIVE STAR Edition

HEALTH-INSURANCE CRISIS WON'T GO AWAY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 364 words


Only 27 percent of California voters backed that state's initiative to guarantee
health care to all residents through a tax-funded single-payer plan. Still, this
percentage represents more than 2 million voters. Moreover, public pressure for
major reforms in health-insurance laws in California and elsewhere won't be
silenced by the defeat of this initiative, because the number of Americans
losing their health insurance benefits continues to grow.

Census Bureau figures show that the crisis already is far worse than most
Americans seem to realize. By the end of last year, the number of people who
lacked health insurance stood at almost 40 million, up from 31 million in 1987.

Actually, the figure may be a lot worse. The Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities in Washington points out that the bureau's figures include only
Americans lacking health insurance for an entire year. The true number of
uninsured would swell by several million more if it included those who went
without coverage for a month or more.

The growth in the uninsured population defies the logic of politicians who claim
the problem will correct itself as the economy improves and more Americans find
jobs. In fact, employed people represent the fastest growing segment that lacks
health insurance.

The Center on Budget Priorities says the number of workers who get health
insurance through their jobs has dipped each year since 1988. That year, 62
percent of American workers had job-related health benefits. By last year, the
figure had dropped to 57.2 percent.

Yet federal lawmakers have refused to impose government-mandated health benefits
for all workers. The reluctance of members of Congress to do even this much
explains why the health-insurance problem will continue to get a lot worse.

Even government-mandated health benefits for workers would amount to a stopgap
measure. It wouldn't address the plight of those who lack both jobs and health
insurance. The best solution remains a single-payer plan along the lines of what
Californians rejected last Tuesday. In time, some states will approve such a
plan and, ideally, put more pressure on Congress to follow their lead.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             370 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             July 9, 2014 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

WALKER'S ACTIONS MAKE US PAY MORE FOR HEALTH CARE

BYLINE:  ROBERT KRAIG, executive director, and KEVIN KANE, lead organizer,
Citizen Action of Wisconsin

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 613 words


The conservative obsession with repealing the health care law is such an assault
on basic freedoms that even many conservative pundits now consider a repeal
politically impossible. Americans don't want to go back to the bad old days when
insurance companies could discriminate based on age, gender, and pre-existing
conditions, Less visible is the damage being done by conservative governors
obstructing implementation of the law, which is raising health premiums and
making families choose between lifesaving coverage and other basic necessities.

This is the finding of a new report from Citizen Action of Wisconsin that
analyzes health insurance premium data in the 34 states that participate in the
federal health insurance exchange. The data, which are based on premiums from
over 400,000 health plans, show that consumers in states rejecting enhanced
federal Medicaid dollars pay hundreds of dollars more in premiums. Consumers in
states refusing to implement rigorous oversight of the health insurance rates
pay even more.

For Wisconsin, the report finds that health consumers are paying $998 more in
2014 because of Gov. Scott Walker's refusal to take full advantage of the health
care law. We are paying $251 more because Walker is rejecting up to $1 million a
day in enhanced funding for BadgerCare and $747 more because he is taking a lax
approach to the review of health insurance policy rates.

The impact of Walker's rejection of up to $1 million each day for BadgerCare on
the 84,700 Wisconsinites who are being denied more affordable coverage is well
documented, but what is less understood is that the decision raises insurance
rates for everyone.

If they have health conditions, people denied BadgerCare are more likely to
enroll in private health insurance, which is very expensive for them. This
impacts everyone because insurers determine rates based on the estimated volume
of medical utilization in their insured populations. In addition, many
needlessly denied BadgerCare will be unable to pay higher premiums, co-pays and
deductibles associated with private insurance. This forces more uncompensated
care on medical providers, who will in turn shift the cost, raising the price of
insurance and medical services for everyone.

Another way Walker's obstruction of the health care law is raising premiums is
his implementation of rate review. Under the health care law, states are given
resources to review insurance rates to guard against excessive increases. To
date, Walker's insurance commissioner has not found a single health insurance
industry rate submission excessive.

States also have the option of requiring prior approval of rates. The data in
the study show that states taking this additional step dramatically lower
premiums. The Walker administration is opposed to taking this step to prevent
health insurance industry gouging.

The study also provides evidence that establishing democratically accountable
policing of health insurance rates lowers premiums, finding that states with
elected insurance commissioners have premiums on average $519 a year lower.
Wisconsin's insurance commissioner, who most health care advocates believe is
much more concerned with kowtowing to the insurance industry than protecting
consumers, was appointed by Walker.

The study quantifies that states with leaders who recognize that the health care
law is here to stay, and take advantage of its provisions, benefit from lower
health insurance costs. Affordable health coverage is not a luxury ? it is a
necessity. Walker's obstructionism puts politics and ideology above the freedom
of Wisconsin families to have what they need to get ahead and pursue the
American dream.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Robert Kraig is the executive director and Kevin Kane is the lead
organizer of Milwaukeebased Citizen Action of Wisconsin .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             371 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             July 15, 1994, Friday

Elders raps wayward dads, talks up health-care reform

BYLINE: By John Blake STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 6

LENGTH: 210 words


Chicago - "Deadbeat dads," profit-hungry health insurers and parents skittish
about sex were the targets of U.S. Surgeon General Joycelyn Elders during a
rousing speech at the NAACP's 85th annual convention in Chicago on Thursday.

Mixing earthy humor with an array of grim statistics, Elders called for
universal health coverage and stricter laws to ensure that fathers take
financial responsibility for their children.

Elders urged attaching the Social Security numbers of fathers to their
children's birth certificate. This would enable the federal government to deduct
money from a father's salary if he abandoned his financial responsibilities
toward his child, she said.  Elders also pushed for universal health coverage.
Thirty years ago, health coverage was viewed as a privilege. It should be a
right today, Elders argued.

"Every person has a right to a lawyer. Why can't every sick person have a right
to a doctor?" Elders said.

Elders drew a chorus of chuckles from the audience when she attacked parents who
believe that teaching children about sex in schools is tantamount to teaching
them to have sex.

"My response is, nobody has to teach anybody how to have sex," Elders said. "I'm
about preventing unwanted, unplanned pregnancies."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941980159

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                             372 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             July 19, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Community colleges must follow state law

BYLINE: Rick Perry, TEXAS GOVERNOR AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 738 words


Community colleges are the backbone of Texas' higher education system. They
offer a way for Texans to get a quality education close to home. To help them
succeed, I have supported increased funding for community colleges throughout my
tenure as governor. State funding for instruction at these institutions has
grown by $121.1 million, or 16.4 percent, in the past 6 years, and I have
proposed another $86.1 million in incentive performance funding above and beyond
what the Legislature provided.

However, I have also consistently called for community colleges to follow state
law by paying their share of health insurance for their employees.
Unfortunately, they have been unwilling to do this.

Unlike larger universities with a statewide reach, community colleges serve the
needs of specific local areas. As such, they are empowered to raise taxes from
the population they serve, not unlike a local hospital, school or utility
district.

The colleges then pay their employees either from local taxes (combined with
tuition and fees) or state funds which are allocated by the Legislature and
collected from all Texas taxpayers. State law dictates that community college
employees paid with state funds can have their health insurance paid the same
way. However, state law also says that if community college employees are paid
with local funds, their health insurance also must be paid from that same local
source.

I fully support this dividing line between funding sources. If the state pays an
instructor's salary, then the state should fund his or her health benefits.
However, I don't support the notion that all Texas taxpayers should cover the
health benefits of local community college employees who are not paid with state
funds.

Unfortunately, this is exactly what has been happening. And this is why I vetoed
a portion of community college health insurance funding for the 2008-2009
biennium.

For years, community colleges have approached the Legislature and, on the advice
of their association, insisted that the state pay health insurance benefits for
employees not paid by the state, but by local funds. Despite the clarity of the
law on this matter, community colleges have pursued a distorted interpretation
by arguing that any employee who is eligible in theory for a state-funded salary
is entitled to state-funded health benefits even if they are not paid by the
state. Their argument runs counter to state law.

I addressed this issue in my 2003 State of the State address, asking community
colleges to pay their fair share. In 2005, the Legislature, through the
Legislative Budget Board, produced an eye-opening report showing that every
community college was circumventing the law, shifting millions in local health
insurance costs to the state. In its 2005 budget, the Texas Senate reacted to
this report by phasing out improper community college health insurance funding
and reallocating those funds to the colleges for instruction. I supported this
change as a reasonable approach to address the problem; unfortunately, the Texas
House of Representatives did not.

Then, in 2006, the Legislative Budget Board and my office provided detailed,
specific instructions to community colleges for requesting state health
insurance funding for eligible employees Unfortunately, the community colleges
again refused to follow the Legislature's directives.

When my staff questioned community colleges about this issue at a public budget
hearing on October 2, 2006, a representative of the Texas Association of
Community Colleges responded that its mission "supersedes" the law as it is
written. I wholeheartedly disagree: No community college's mission supersedes
state law. During the 2007 legislative session, my staff reminded the community
colleges on the specifics of the law. My staff implored the association's
representatives to play by the rules set by the Legislature. The association
refused.

As governor, I owe it to Texas taxpayers to ensure the law is followed and that
taxpayer dollars are spent as the law intends. I will continue to call for
increased formula funding for our community colleges because they deserve our
support as they educate our future leaders. However, I will hold them
accountable to the spirit and letter of the law. Community colleges are
essential contributors to our state's future success, and I remain committed to
helping them maintain the highest standards in pursuit of their mission.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                             373 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                           Bahrain News Agency (BNA)

                             August 28, 2016 Sunday

Promoting health services underlined

LENGTH: 349 words




Manama, Aug 28 (BNA): Supreme Health Council (SHC) today staged an introductory
workshop on the Comprehensive National Health Insurance Programme in the
presence of SHC President Lt-Gen Dr. Shaikh Mohammed bin Abdulla Al Khalifa,
Health Minister Faeqa bint Saeed Al-Saleh, a number of governors, heads and
members of municipal councils and Council of Capital Trustees.



SHC President, during the opening ceremony, stressed that the National Health
Insurance Programme Bahrain intends to implement is a key national programme
targets the development of the health sector in line with the royal visions and
the follow up of HRH Prime Minister Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa and the
interest of HRH Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, Crown Prince, Deputy Supreme
Commander and First Deputy Prime Minister.
He pointed out Bahrain's interest in the development of the very important
health sector to citizens and residents.

He affirmed that the National Health Programme is set to raise the level of
health services without prejudice to citizens' current health gains, and that
providing health services is a constitutional right to citizens.

He noted that under the National Health Insurance Programme health services will
be free for citizens, instead the government will make the payments to the
health insurance fund to be established.

He said holding the workshop comes within the framework of discussing issues
related to the National Health Insurance Programme and to develop a
comprehensive vision for the implementation process to contribute to the
establishment of the basics of health insurance based on promoting health
services.

He gave a detailed presentation on the key pillars of the Health Insurance Law.
He also reviewed features of the proposed future health system that will be a
key outcome of the implementation of the National Health Insurance program that
will provide high quality and competitive health services for all citizens.

MJ

BNA 1952 GMT 2016/08/28

Publishing Rights Reserved to Bahrain News Agency  2003 - 2016

http://imgs.syndigate.info/137/387/63/147243684885.jpg



LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 387


    Copyright 2003 -  2016 Publishing Rights Reserved to Bahrain News Agency
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.


                             374 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             May 26, 2004 Wednesday

Bay Area leads counterattack to save health insurance law;
Rule ensures that businesses provide benefits to workers

BYLINE: By Steve GeissingerSACRAMENTO BUREAU

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Labor unions -- backed by liberal Democratic Bay Area lawmakers -- launched a
big-money counterattack Tuesday on the corporate November ballot bid to repeal
landmark legislation forcing firms to provide health insurance.

"We passed a law to ensure that every Californian who works hard and plays by
the rules gets affordable health care on the job," said Senate leader John
Burton. "We're not going to let those protections get ripped away before they
even have a chance to take effect."

The San Francisco Democrat spoke at a capitol news conference, flanked by
members of a coalition that's vowing to wage a multimillion-dollar campaign to
save Senate Bill 2, a bill approved by the Democrat-dominated Legislature and
signed into law by Democratic Gov. Gray Davis shortly before he was recalled
last year.

SB2 would, among other provisions, eventually require businesses with 50 or more
employees to provide health insurance for their workers. But a business-backed
referendum on the Nov. 2 ballot would repeal that law.

"SB2 amounts to a $1.5 billion annual drain on workers' paychecks and will
jeopardize the livelihoods of large and small business owners," said John
Dunlap, the co-chairman of the coalition that qualified the anti-SB2 referendum.

The clash over SB2 is headed toward being one of the most costly and heated of
the numerous battles over November ballot measures. All told, both sides are
expected to spend at least $30 million.

Passage of the law itself drew nationwide attention, as is the battle over
whether to repeal it. The struggle is viewed as the first major clash over
health-care policy since President Clinton and Hillary Clinton abandoned their
quest for universal health insurance a decade ago.

If SB2 survives the referendum challenge, California would be left as the only
state besides Hawaii to require employers to pay for their workers' health
insurance.

Under the law, starting in January 2006, companies with 200 or more workers
would be required to provide state-approved health insurance for all employees
and their dependents or pay a fee to the state that's equivalent to the cost of
coverage.

The mandate, a year later, would be extended to businesses with 50 or more
workers.

Businesses with 20 to 49 workers would be exempt, unless legislators give them a
tax credit in return for providing coverage.

While anti-SB2 forces aren't expected to formally kick off their campaign until
summer, the time seemed right Tuesday for the pro-SB2 coalition that includes
groups representing employees, consumers, doctors, nurses, seniors, the poor and
others.

Pro-SB2 campaign strategists are expected to try to tap into voters' worries
about paying ever-larger amounts of their employer-provided health insurance or
lose their coverage entirely.

"We're going to let employees whose premiums are going through the roof know
that the Health Insurance Act [SB2] will provide very real protections," said
Anthony Wright, executive director of Health Access, the pro-SB2 coalition.

"And we're going to let employees who don't receive health coverage on the job
know that the HIA will protect them, as well," Wright said.

Meanwhile, anti-SB2 forces are expected to attack the law as a job killer that
will boost their costs, force higher taxes and foster even more government
interference with the health care system.

SB2 supporters' secret weapon, they believe, is the spectrum of their coalition.

"In a campaign where voters are choosing between the nurses, doctors and
consumer groups versus big corporations that don't provide health care to their
workers, we think our background and credibility on public health issues will
give us a substantial advantage," said Donna Gerber of the California Nurses
Association.

Contact Sacramento Bureau Chief Steve Geissinger at
sgeissinger@angnewspapers.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                             375 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday

Study calls wide Mass. coverage a lifesaver

LENGTH: 851  words


The groundbreaking Massachusetts health insurance law may have prevented about
320 deaths a year, according to a Harvard study of the legislation that was used
as a model for President Obama's national health program.The researchers from
the Harvard School of Public Health, in a study published Monday, estimated that
the law, which expanded coverage to most residents, has saved about one life for
every 830 people who enrolled in health insurance."This is a strong and credible
finding," said Austin Frakt, a health economist at Boston University School of
Medicine who wrote an editorial that accompanied the study. "I think there's
enough evidence at this point to conclude that health insurance does improve
health and mortality."During the four years after Massachusetts implemented the
2006 law, death rates in the state dropped by nearly 3 percent among young and
middle-age adults compared with similar populations in states that did not
expand coverage, the researchers concluded.Some health policy specialists were
dubious about attributing the decline in deaths to the law. "I am skeptical that
such an immediate and significant drop in mortality would occur after getting
health insurance," said Dr. Scott W. Atlas, a senior fellow at Stanford
University's Hoover Institution.Previous studies investigating whether health
insurance led to fewer deaths have yielded mixed results. Researchers have
observed that increasing Medicaid coverage to low-income people in certain
states led to a drop in death rates, but an ongoing study of Oregon residents
who were randomly assigned to get health coverage or not has found no difference
in death rates. Facing a funding shortfall, Oregon in 2008 picked people by
lottery for its Medicaid program, creating the unusual opportunity to conduct a
randomized study of health insurance - which is the gold standard of health
research.The latest study, published Monday in the Annals of Internal Medicine,
used a different methodology that did not allow researchers to firmly establish
the cause of the observed reduction in deaths in Massachusetts.

It looked at changes in death rates among adults ages 20 to 64 in Massachusetts
before the state's health law overhaul, from 2001 to 2005, and after, from 2007
to 2010."Our aim was to analyze young and middle-aged adults, the main group
that didn't have health insurance before the health law was passed," said study
leader Dr. Benjamin Sommers, an assistant professor of health policy and
economics at the Harvard School of Public Health.The researchers compared the
changes in death rates in Massachusetts with what happened in counties across
the country with comparable populations - with similar ages, socioeconomic
status, and health insurance rates before 2006 - that were located in states
that had not expanded insurance coverage. The mortality rates in those counties
remained unchanged during the time period during which they fell in
Massachusetts.Elderly adults in Massachusetts, who mostly have Medicare
coverage, also experienced no significant drop in their death rates compared
with other states. This finding, in contrast to the death-rate decline among
younger adults who were mostly likely to gain coverage, "suggests to us that
health reform was the likely explanation," Sommers said.Adding strength to the
finding was a larger drop in deaths due to preventable causes, such as heart
disease, diabetes, cancer, and infections, compared with deaths that would not
have been affected by health insurance, such as those caused by accidents,
suicides, or acts of violence. The researchers found nearly a 5 percent decrease
in the death rate for preventable causes."When more people gain access to
insurance coverage, they gain better ways to use the health care system and have
improved health outcomes," said Diane Rowland, executive vice president of the
Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit health policy organization based in
California. "Uninsured people don't seek care as early as they need to, which
can lead to death."A decade-old report from the Institute of Medicine estimated
that 18,000 Americans die every year due to lack of health insurance, but that
has been difficult to document in studies."If this turns out to be true, it's
good news, but it may not be true," said John Goodman, president of the National
Center for Policy Analysis, a public policy think tank based in Dallas.The
Oregon study, led MIT and Harvard researchers, found that after about two years,
those given health insurance did not experience beneficial changes in blood
pressure or their blood sugar levels compared with uninsured participants. But
people with coverage perceived that their health had improved and their rates of
depression declined.Other studies looking at states that expanded Medicaid
coverage found a 6 percent drop in mortality rates."All studies have
limitations," Rowland said, "and measuring the exact effect of health insurance
has been difficult, but we do know it makes a difference in people's lives and
in their ability to lead a longer one."© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             376 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday

Bulgarian Ex-FinMin May Be Prosecuted over Transfer of Health Money

LENGTH: 133  words


Lawmakers of the three ruling parties in Bulgaria may launch a prosecution
against former Finance Minister Simeon Djankov, as he is suspected in
transferring state money envisaged for the health sector for other needs,
violating the Bulgarian health insurance law.


Dyankov, a Finance minister during the center-right cabinet of PM Boyko Borisov
(2009-2013), could be prosecuted for the transfer of BGN 1.4 B from the National
Health Insurance Fund to the fiscal reserve, according to local media.
MPs of the formerly ruling Citizens for European Development (GERB) party made
an amendment in the Budget Law setting the money as a part of the funded budget
and then transferring it.
Under the Bulgarian Law on Health Insurance money of health insurances could not
be spent on other than healthcare needs.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Topeka Capital-Journal (Kansas)

                            January 18, 2013 Friday

Business groups decry Obamacare for Senate panel

BYLINE: Tim Carpenter.

THE CAPITAL-JOURNAL

LENGTH: 530 words


Leaders of two Kansas business lobbying associations outlined for a Senate
committee Thursday deep pessimism that members of their groups could escape
economic damage from implementation of national health insurance reform.

The Kansas Chamber and the Kansas unit of the National Federation of Independent
Business tag-teamed to outline for the Senate Health and Welfare Committee the
struggle business owners would have complying with federal law requiring nearly
all Americans to secure health insurance.

Eric Stafford, senior director of government affairs for the Kansas Chamber,
said a survey of 300 chief executive officers from across the state indicated 40
percent would terminate company-sponsored group health plans and force employees
to secure their own policies after the federal law took effect at the start of
2014.

"That's not to say employers won't provide financial assistance to their
employees," he said. "To what extent this shift will affect the market will only
be known down the road."

He said insurance businesses would be hit with taxes that would be passed
directly to consumers through higher premiums.

NFIB state director Dan Murray said the requirement individuals obtain either
private or government health insurance created financial and regulatory burdens
for small businesses. He said the federal law won't do anything to help
businesses keep pace with rising health costs during the remainder of Democratic
President Barack Obama's term.

"Affordability of health care really hits home for small businesses," Murray
said.

Sen. Mary Pilcher-Cook, R-Shawnee, chairwoman of the Senate committee, said she
hadn't scheduled a hearing to hear from supporters of the insurance reform law
signed by Obama and affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court. She said the topic would
be frequently addressed by the committee during the current legislative session.

She said the burden of the federal law on businesses would stall economic
expansion and undercut job growth.

"Without jobs," Pilcher-Cook said, "there is less health care available in
Kansas."

Duane Goossen, vice president for fiscal and health policy at the Kansas Health
Institute in Topeka, said in an interview after the Senate hearing that the
state had approximately 350,000 people without health insurance.

Under the federal law, Goossen said, most will be eligible for coverage through
Medicaid if they have low incomes or through an insurance exchange network with
rates subsidized by the federal government.

Sen. Laura Kelly, D-Topeka, said Gov. Sam Brownback has yet to announce whether
he would commit Kansas to expansion of Medicaid to include 75,000 uninsured
people and 47,000 people who directly purchase health insurance or have it
through an employer.

Medicaid coverage for these Kansas adults would be entirely paid by the federal
government for three years.

"As a state," she said, "we have a big decision. If we don't expand Medicaid
eligibility, we leave 122,000 out."

Rep. Jim Ward, D-Wichita, introduced a House bill Thursday requiring the state
to expand Medicaid.

"We know for a fact that people with health insurance live longer, have
healthier lives and are more productive citizens," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The Topeka Capital-Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                             378 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday

House Judiciary Committee passes the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act

LENGTH: 455  words

DATELINE: New York



 Chicago: American Dental Association has issued the following news release:



 The House Judiciary Committee on Feb. 28 unanimously passed H.R. 372, the
Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017.





 The Association strongly supports H.R. 372, which was introduced Jan. 10 by
Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., a dentist and ADA member. The bill would authorize the
Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department to "enforce the federal
antitrust laws against health insurance companies engaged in anticompetitive
conduct."



 "Repealing the McCarran-Ferguson antitrust exemption for the business of health
insurance will assist in Congress's larger goal of restoring competition to the
health care industry and reversing the trend of rising payments and market
consolidation," said Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., chair, House Judiciary Committee, and
Tom Marino, R-Pa., chair, Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law
Subcommittee, in a statement.



 On Feb. 16, the Association submitted written testimony to a House subcommittee
hearing on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law, asking for support
of the bill. That was followed by the Organized Dentistry Coalition's Feb. 27
letter to House Judiciary Chair Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., and ranking member John
Conyers, D-Mich., the Organized Dentistry Coalition urging the committee to
cosponsor the legislation.



 "The current debate regarding health care reform requires serious consideration
of any and all means to introduce competition and make health insurance
affordable for all Americans," wrote the Association in its testimony. "An
important step toward achieving these objectives is eliminating the outdated
federal antitrust exemption that grants health insurers special status, and
permits them to ignore the competitive rules that apply to every other U.S.
business."



 "The bill is narrowly drawn to apply only to the business of health insurance,
including dental insurance, and would not affect the business of life insurance,
property or casualty insurance, and many similar insurance areas," the coalition
wrote. "Passage of H.R. 372 would help interject more competition into the
insurance marketplace by authorizing greater federal antitrust enforcement in
instances where state regulators fail to act. When competition is not robust,
consumers are more likely to face higher prices and less likely to benefit from
innovation and variety in the marketplace."



 During his testimony Rep. Gosar said, "Imagine what could exist when we put the
patient first and demand that health insurance companies compete for their
business. This market should be patient-centric, provide a variety of
affordable, quality options and empower patient involvement and accountability."


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             379 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday

Minnesota's new health laws: We've got answers to your questions

BYLINE: By Christopher Snowbeck csnowbeck@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: LEGISLATURE; News; Health

LENGTH: 1489 words


It was a big session for health legislation at the Minnesota Capitol.

Lawmakers expanded the Medicaid insurance program in February and met a federal
deadline in March to pass legislation for a health insurance exchange.

As the session drew to a close, legislators passed a bill that spells out rules
for how the current health insurance market can continue once the exchange gets
rolling. And a bill signed by Gov. Mark Dayton on Thursday outlines the future
for MinnesotaCare, a state health insurance program for lower-income families.

All the activity can be tough to track.

"People have now heard that a lot has happened, but they don't know what it
means for them," said Liz Doyle, associate director of TakeAction Minnesota, a
St. Paul-based group that has pushed for a greater government role in health
care.

"It's a big year -- that's in response to the Affordable Care Act," said Peter
Nelson of the Center of the American Experiment, referring to federal law passed
in 2010 to overhaul the nation's health care system. Nelson's group promotes a
market-based approach to health care.

Here are some questions and answers about what happened at the Capitol, and what
it means going forward.

Q What is a health insurance exchange?

A A marketplace in which individuals and small businesses can start shopping in
October for coverage that begins Jan. 1, 2014.

Minnesota's version, called MNsure, will consist of a website where people can
compare health insurance options. It also will help people learn whether they
qualify for public health insurance programs or for federal subsidies when
buying commercial coverage.

Q What if I don't want to use a website?

A The exchange will include a call center where people can phone to get help
shopping for coverage.

Q Do I have to use the exchange?

A No. The exchange is an option for people who buy individual insurance policies
as well as those covered by small employers. Those two groups together now
account for about 12 percent of the state's population.

A bill created rules for the health insurance market that will continue
"outside" the exchange next year, so that remains an option. People covered by
large employers won't even use the exchange, although it will probably become an
option for them in future years.

Q Are there others who probably will use it?

A Starting next year, federal law requires that almost all U.S. citizens and
legal residents have health insurance. Otherwise, they will pay a tax penalty.
So, some portion of the estimated 9 percent of state residents who currently
lack health insurance could use the exchange. Also, people can use it to
determine if they are eligible for the Medicaid and MinnesotaCare public health
insurance programs.

Q Why is Medicaid getting bigger in Minnesota?

A: The federal health law of 2010 gave states the option to expand Medicaid,
which is a health insurance program for low-income individuals and families.
Dayton opted for an early expansion of Medicaid in 2011, and legislation passed
in February continued the expansion for an additional 35,000 people.

Q Why is MinnesotaCare changing?

A Starting next year, the federal health law sets new standards for benefits in
health insurance plans. Under those rules, certain aspects of the current
MinnesotaCare program would not be allowed, such as a $10,000 cap on hospital
benefits for people enrolled in the program.

A bill signed Thursday by Dayton includes funding to get rid of this cap on
hospital benefits. It also lowers premiums for MinnesotaCare beneficiaries and
eliminates a $1,000 deductible on hospital services, said Doyle of TakeAction
Minnesota.

Q If I'm not covered by a public program, will my health insurance premium get
more expensive?

A It's not clear. Health insurance companies faced a Friday deadline for
submitting plans to state regulators on the policies they'd like to sell for
2014. The plans haven't yet been approved, so premiums for next year aren't
known.

One key factor is the underlying cost of health care. In 2013, health care costs
for a family of four increased 6.3 percent over the previous year, according to
a report released Wednesday by Milliman, a health care actuarial firm.

Q Is there reason to think my premium might increase?

A The federal health law imposes new taxes, expands access to health insurance
policies and includes rules that will standardize and, in some cases, improve
the benefits offered through policies. All three factors could push up premiums.

Insurance companies won't be allowed to exclude people with costly health
conditions starting next year. In the small-employer market, insurers won't be
allowed to provide discounts to groups that are relatively healthy, said Eileen
Smith, a spokeswoman for the Minnesota Council of Health Plans.

Health plans will be required to cover maternity care, behavioral health, and
pediatric dental as well as eyeglasses. So, people with insurance policies that
currently lack those benefits could see an increase.

Some consumers will find that "you're not just paying more, you're getting
more," said Geoff Bartsh, vice president of public policy and government
relations with Medica, a health insurer based in Minnetonka.

Q Whatever the premium, might my out-of-pocket costs decrease?

A Yes, depending on your income level and the sort of insurance you currently
have.

Many individuals will be eligible for federal subsidies if they buy coverage
through the insurance exchange. Federal tax credits will be available for people
with incomes up to 400 percent of the poverty level. The threshold works out to
about $94,000 per year for a family of four.

"We don't know yet what the premiums will look like," said Doyle of TakeAction
Minnesota. "We know that most individuals buying private coverage on the
exchange will be eligible for financial assistance to offset the cost of
premiums."

The health exchange also is expected to promote competition among health
insurers, so that could push costs down. Small-employer groups (50 or fewer
people) that previously paid penalties for being less healthy won't pay those
penalties anymore. Finally, a few small employers might receive tax credits.

Q If I qualify for a tax credit, must I wait to claim it on my taxes during the
following year?

A No. The credit would be applied to premiums upfront.

Q Many people in Minnesota are covered by large employers. What about them?

A Large groups are likely to see relatively few changes for 2014.

Q If I currently have a high deductible with my health insurance, will it be
lower next year?

A It depends. The health law won't allow deductibles that require people to pay
$15,000 before coverage begins, said Smith of the Minnesota Council of Health
Plans. But the law will allow deductibles up to $6,350 for individuals and
$12,700 for families.

The rules on deductibles are a factor in determining whether your premium might
go up.

Q I've heard there could be changes to the Minnesota Comprehensive Health
Association program. Why?

A MCHA offers individual health insurance to Minnesota residents who've been
turned down for policies in the private market because of pre-existing health
problems. The program, which is sometimes called the state's high-risk pool,
covers about 26,000 people.

Starting next year, the federal health law will prohibit insurance companies
from excluding people with pre-existing conditions from coverage. So, MCHA
enrollees will have the chance to buy policies on the health exchange as well as
the private market.

"With new insurance options for our enrollees, the need for MCHA will eventually
disappear," the group says on its website. "Our staff is working closely with
the (state) on a plan to transition our enrollees to new coverage."

The state Department of Commerce is gathering public comments to help develop a
transition plan. The final plan is scheduled to be issued Aug. 31. Earlier this
month, the agency said it is trying to "determine the need for, and implement a
phase-out and eventual appropriate termination of coverage provided by MCHA."

Q I'm on Medicare. Does any of this apply to me?

A Not really. The federal health law includes provisions that affect how certain
Medicare health plans are paid; it also improved Medicare prescription drug
benefits. But the issues dealt with at the Capitol this session will have no
impact on most Medicare beneficiaries.

Q This all sounds confusing. Is help available?

A Health insurance brokers will be able to help people buy coverage on the
health exchange, as well as the traditional market. There also will be new
groups of helpers known as "navigators," "in-person assisters" and "certified
application counselors." The state recently issued final rules related to these
new advisers.

The health exchange won't be running before October. In the meantime,
information is available atwww.mnsure.org/hix/how-work /main-faqs.jsp.

Christopher Snowbeck can be reached at 651-228-5479. Follow him
atwww.twitter.com/chrissnowbeck .

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Thinkstock)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             380 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 6, 2009 Friday

BRIEF: Vinehout readies health insurance reforms

BYLINE: The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 267 words


Feb. 6--State Sen. Kathleen Vinehout, D-Alma, is authoring legislative bills to
change Wisconsin's health insurance regulations.

A recent report released by Families USA gave Wisconsin a failing grade on state
consumer protections in the individual health insurance market. The report cited
as too long Wisconsin's current two-year time limit on how long insurance
coverage can be excluded for pre-existing conditions. Vinehout's plan would:

-Limit the pre-existing condition exclusion period for individual health
insurance coverage to one year.

- Limit the insurance practice of looking back at a policyholder's medical
history and then denying coverage.

- Provide protection against additional underwriting to consumers who choose to
modify or change policies.

Vinehout proposes expanding coverage to allow parents to cover their unmarried
adult children up to age 27 and make it easier for those with serious health
conditions to get into the state's high risk pool.

The legislation also would increases portability, grant authority to the state
insurance commissioner to create a standard insurance application form and
requires annual reporting by insurers, Vinehout said.

To see more of The Leader-Telegram or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.leadertelegram.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Leader-Telegram, Eau
Claire, Wis. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090206-EW-BRF-Vinehout-readies-health-insurance-reforms-0206

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                                 Copyright 2009


                             381 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne)

                              July 3, 2017 Monday

Obamacare still the law of the land

BYLINE: Becky Orr

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Main; Pg. 6-30 NEWS health insurance program

LENGTH: 631 words


Suggested head online:

Cheyenne experts discuss changing world of health insurance

Suggested head print:

Affordable Care Act is still the law of the land, Cheyenne experts say

At a glance

Thirty people attended a presentation Thursday about health care and health
insurance in Wyoming. The Cheyenne League of Women Voters sponsored the program.

By Becky Orr

Wyoming Tribune Eagle

CHEYENNE - While the future of federal health insurance is in flux, a few things
still are certain, local experts said Thursday.

One absolute is that the Affordable Care Act remains in place, despite a
proposed health insurance bill under consideration in the U.S. Senate.

"It is the law of the land," Tracy Brosius said of the mandatory health
insurance system created during the Obama Administration.

Brosius was one of the speakers at a program Thursday about health insurance in
Wyoming.

The Cheyenne League of Women Voters organized the presentation at the Laramie
County Library.

Other panelists were Denise Burke, senior policy analyst for the Wyoming
Department of Insurance; Theresa Manzanares, benefit coordination manager,
Division of Healthcare Financing (Medicaid) for the Wyoming Department of

Health; and Josh Hannes, director of strategy and external affairs at Cheyenne
Regional Medical

Center.

Open enrollment will move forward for health insurance, just like it has for the
last few years,

Brosius

said. People can sign up for health insurance that's available under the
Affordable Care Act during open enrollment.

But the time available to register will be greatly reduced from previous years,
Brosius said. People can sign up from Nov. 1 until Dec. 15 if they want coverage
in 2018.

Past registration times have lasted a few months longer.

Brosius heads the navigator program operated through Enroll Wyoming. Navigators
are trained to help people sign up for insurance on an online marketplace.

Currently, 24,826 Wyoming residents are enrolled in a marketplace plan for
health insurance coverage. About 40,000 more Wyoming residents likely are
eligible to sign up,

Brosius

said.

Another certainty is that Blue Cross Blue Shield of Wyoming will continue to
sell insurance on the marketplace. It will be the only company doing so.

Another given is that the bill in the U.S. Senate can change from day to day,
according to Denise Burke.

"There are so many pieces and parts that are still moving and shaping. People
really need to be aware and ask questions," Burke said.

"They need to begin by really understanding what their own insurance does as
well as what is happening on the whole political front and how that is going to
affect them and how it is going to affect our state."

The individual mandate that requires Americans to have health insurance and the
penalty that accompanies it is still the law, Burke said.

However, U.S. President Donald Trump recently directed the head of the Internal
Revenue Service not to prosecute people who don't pay the tax penalty for not
signing up.

"So, come tax time, we don't know what the outcome will be," Burke said. "I
can't give advice to the public, but I can say that the tax penalty is still the
law of the land."

The Senate version of the health-care bill could have a major impact on people
who are 60 years old and older.

Brosius presented an analysis from the Kaiser Family Foundation that showed how
a 27-year-old who made $20,000 a year would pay $960 a year in premiums. A
60-year-old who earned the same amount would pay $3,910 in premiums a year.

A 60-year old who earned $60,000 a year would pay $18,720 in annual premiums,
compared to a 27-year-old making the same amount who would pay $4,960 a year.

Becky Orr

is the Wyoming Tribune Eagle's business and health reporter. She can be reached
at borr@wyomingnews.com or 307-633-3183. Follow her on Twitter at @WTEBecky.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 Cheyenne Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             382 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                     January 27, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Liberty Tax Provides One-Stop Option for Health Insurance, Taxes

LENGTH: 333  words


Jan. 27 -- Liberty Tax, Inc. (NASDAQ: TAX) -- Open enrollment in the health
insurance Marketplace ends Sunday, just as tax season is ramping up. Those two
realities make Liberty Tax, a leading international tax franchise, the perfect
one-stop option for consumers looking to enroll in health insurance coverage by
the January 31 deadline as they can have their taxes professionally prepared at
the same time.

"We have made it easy for consumers to manage these two yearly obligations in
one location," said Chuck Lovelace, Vice President of the Affordable Care Act
for Liberty Tax. "Now, with the health insurance deadline approaching, it makes
even more sense for consumers to choose Liberty Tax."

Participating Liberty Tax locations across the U.S. provide access to licensed
health insurance agents alongside professional tax preparers. The insurance
agents help time-starved consumers weigh their insurance options and enroll in
coverage while Liberty's tax preparers outline the tax implications of the
health care law and provide personalized tax preparation services.

Along with saving consumers' time, Liberty Tax provides quality service
customers can depend upon. Consumers will appreciate the value of having tax
preparers, like those at Liberty Tax, who truly understand the health care law.
Last year, for example, about 300,000 low-income taxpayers paid a tax penalty
when they should have claimed an exemption to the health care law, according to
a July 2015 report by the IRS commissioner. Many more failed to file proper
paperwork that may have jeopardized the subsidies they received to help pay for
health insurance.

Consumers who still need to enroll in health care coverage will find the help
they need at participating Liberty Tax locations. They can also find ACA
information and resources at Liberty's health insurance website
healthcaretaxinfo.com. Liberty has made the merger of health insurance and taxes
a seamless process for consumers from beginning to end.

Source: Liberty Tax

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             383 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            August 31, 2013 Saturday

NECHIP policyholders need new plans

LENGTH: 310  words


People who get health insurance through the Nebraska Comprehensive Health
Insurance Pool are being urged to sign up by Nov. 1 for a new insurance plan
offered through the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare.


NECHIP coverage will end Dec. 31 as the program, a safety net, will no longer be
needed because of new coverage available Jan. 1 under the federal health
insurance law.
Lexington Regional Health Center
Pool officials expect that the approximately 3,200 policyholders will be able to
apply for new plans starting Oct. 1 through an insurance exchange. Applying by
Nov. 1 will ensure uninterrupted coverage, said Victor Kensler, NECHIP board
chairman.
NECHIP provides health insurance to Nebraskans who can't otherwise afford it or
who have been denied because of a medical condition, and who are not eligible
for Medicaid or Medicare.
All U.S. citizens under the age of 65 are obligated under Obamacare to purchase
at least the basic level of insurance offered. Under the law, all individuals
will have guaranteed access to health insurance. Individuals will have no
maximum benefit limits and may qualify for a payment subsidy.
By purchasing an ACA-approved plan, Kensler said, NECHIP policyholders will no
longer pay premiums based on a 50 percent surcharge over the cost of policies
offered by other health insurers in the state. Kensler said he expects insurance
costs to fall for NECHIP policyholders.
NECHIP has already notified policyholders of the change through the mail and on
its website, but in coming weeks will send certified letters. Kensler said he is
concerned that some policyholders, especially those who are chronically ill, may
not be aware of the change and could end up with no coverage.
"We just want to make sure that we get the information out to them and that they
are opening their mail, that they are looking at the website," Kensler said.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             384 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            December 27, 2004 Monday
                                  ALL EDITION

ALLOW UW TO INSURE DOMESTIC PARTNERS;
THE CAMPUS NEEDS EVERY TOOL AT ITS DISPOSAL TO COMPETE WITH OTHER UNIVERSITIES
TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN TALENTED EMPLOYEES.

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 518 words


The marketplace has spoken. It's time for the state Legislature to make it
possible for UW System campuses to offer health insurance to the domestic
partners of employees.

It's not only the right thing to do for UW employees and their partners, at a
reasonable cost, but also the right thing to do to protect the state's
investment in its universities. Failure to act will keep UW campuses burdened
with a significant disadvantage in retaining and recruiting faculty and staff.

Wisconsin has been slipping further behind on domestic partner health insurance
over the past decade as state after state has granted the benefit to university
employees. When Penn State University officially begins offering domestic
partner health insurance to its employees next month, it will leave UW-Madison
as the only Big Ten university that fails to do so.

University administrators have understood the problem posed by the lack of
domestic partner benefits.

"We know of instances where we have lost outstanding (faculty and staff)
candidates because of it," UW-Madison Provost Peter Spear told State Journal
reporter Karen Rivedal.

The UW System has for several years included domestic-partner health insurance
coverage in its compensation plan recommendations to the state. However, state
law prohibits UW employees, or any other state employees, from receiving
domestic partner health insurance.

The law covering family health insurance offered to state employees specifies
that insurance is to cover spouses and dependents (generally meaning children).
Domestic partners do not qualify under those terms.

The solution is for the Legislature to modify the law to open coverage to
domestic partners.

Such a change in law would not require a sea change in the state's attitude
toward benefits for gays and lesbians. In fact, UW campuses already offer
domestic partners dental insurance, life insurance and a few other benefits not
prohibited by law. Moreover, permitting the UW System to offer domestic partner
health insurance would only put it on a par with scores of private companies and
organizations in Wisconsin, including such UW-related employers as the UW
Foundation and the UW Credit Union.

Neither would the change generate a huge cost. UW System staffers are now
preparing a cost estimate. But at similar universities, the expense has been
modest. The University of Iowa spent $100,000, which amounted to 0.2 percent
extra, to cover 63 partners of gay and lesbian employees in 2002. The University
of Michigan spent $223,000 to cover 121 domestic partners, and the University of
Minnesota spent $100,000 to cover 40.

Yet, for the investment in added coverage, those universities received the
opportunity to retain and recruit talented employees they might otherwise have
lost -- and to do so at the expense of UW-Madison, which cannot offer a similar
incentive.

Opposition to domestic partner insurance can be expected in the Legislature,
which is aiming toward moving to referendum a constitutional amendment to ban
gay marriages. Nonetheless, it's the right thing to do for the employees, the UW
System and the state.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2004 Madison Newspapers, Inc.


                             385 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday

Insure workers or face fines, companies told

LENGTH: 281  words


Health Authority Abu Dhabi (HAAD) has launched a campaign to educate employers
about the compulsory Health Insurance Scheme.

ABU DHABI //Companies failing to provide employees with medical insurance will
receive stiff penalties, the emirate's health officials warned yesterday.

Jamal Mohammed Al Kaabi, the head of customer service and corporate
communications at the Health Authority Abu Dhabi, said employers and sponsors
were required by law to provide health insurance to employees and their family.

This includes cover for any male employee's spouse and three children below the
age of 18. The law also applies to labourers at construction companies.

An employer or sponsor who does not subscribe to a health insurance scheme or
does not renew a health insurance policy is subject to a minimum fine of Dh300
per employee or worker, per month.

Mr Al Kaabi was speaking at the launch of a campaign publicising the activation
of Abu Dhabi's health insurance law.

The law was issued in 2005, Mr Al Kaabi said, but fines for non-compliance were
not activated until last year.

"The administrative process of activating the fines started in May 2010, and at
that time his highness Sheikh Khalifa passed an order to [hold] all the fines,"
Mr Al Kaabi said.

"We spent four months under that order and then we decided to establish a
committee within the health authority to look into all appeals that are
presented through customer service and the committee."

In September, the Appeal Committee for Insurance Fines was established at the
health authority with the responsibility of reviewing all health insurance
appeals.

Since May 2010, the committee has received 42,153 appeals.

mismail@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2011 Abu Dhabi Media Company
                         Syndigate.info, Al bawaba.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             386 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday

Insure workers or face fines, companies told

LENGTH: 281  words


Health Authority Abu Dhabi (HAAD) has launched a campaign to educate employers
about the compulsory Health Insurance Scheme.

ABU DHABI //Companies failing to provide employees with medical insurance will
receive stiff penalties, the emirate's health officials warned yesterday.

Jamal Mohammed Al Kaabi, the head of customer service and corporate
communications at the Health Authority Abu Dhabi, said employers and sponsors
were required by law to provide health insurance to employees and their family.

This includes cover for any male employee's spouse and three children below the
age of 18. The law also applies to labourers at construction companies.

An employer or sponsor who does not subscribe to a health insurance scheme or
does not renew a health insurance policy is subject to a minimum fine of Dh300
per employee or worker, per month.

Mr Al Kaabi was speaking at the launch of a campaign publicising the activation
of Abu Dhabi's health insurance law.

The law was issued in 2005, Mr Al Kaabi said, but fines for non-compliance were
not activated until last year.

"The administrative process of activating the fines started in May 2010, and at
that time his highness Sheikh Khalifa passed an order to [hold] all the fines,"
Mr Al Kaabi said.

"We spent four months under that order and then we decided to establish a
committee within the health authority to look into all appeals that are
presented through customer service and the committee."

In September, the Appeal Committee for Insurance Fines was established at the
health authority with the responsibility of reviewing all health insurance
appeals.

Since May 2010, the committee has received 42,153 appeals.

mismail@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2011 Abu Dhabi Media Company
                         Syndigate.info, Al bawaba.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             387 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           October 26, 2013 Saturday

Manchin Right On Obamacare

LENGTH: 411  words


The new national health insurance law, Obamacare, has become something like a
runaway locomotive - doing an enormous amount of damage but with no one willing
to ease off on the throttle. But don't expect President Barack Obama to agree to
a suggestion by Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., that the so-called "individual
mandate" be postponed for a year.


A near meltdown of the Obamacare website had one pleasant side-effect, from the
president's standpoint. It diverted attention from the many basic flaws in the
law.
Once you understand Obama does not consider them to be flaws, the White House
position becomes clear.
Already, less than a month after Obamacare kicked off officially, hundreds of
thousands of Americans have learned it will be detrimental to them. Some are
finding their health insurance premiums will skyrocket. Others have been
informed they cannot keep the insurance coverage they have.
Eventually, millions of individuals, families and small businesses will find
that under Obamacare, health insurance will cost them more - out of their own
pockets.
Again, Obama knew four years ago, before the law was enacted, of the havoc it
would wreak. How else can "free" insurance be provided to the millions promised
it? The harm coming to many Americans as a result of Obamacare is essential for
the program to work.
Most Democrats in Congress understand that as well as the president does, but
support him on Obamacare either from blind party loyalty or because they agree
with his socialist philosophy.
A few, including Manchin, are more concerned about their constituents' physical
and financial health. This week Manchin, working with Sen. Johnny Isakson,
R-Ga., proposed a one-year postponement of the "individual mandate" - the
requirement that every American buy government-approved health insurance or pay
a stiff penalty tax.
But without that mandate, millions of people will choose not to comply with the
law. It simply is not in their best interests.
So Obama - who already has granted big businesses a one-year delay in complying
with the law - is unlikely to go along with the Manchin-Isakson proposal.
However, Manchin is not alone among Democrat senators with serious concerns
about Obamacare. At least four or five others seem to share his belief the
program ought to be, in effect, put on hold until, in Manchin's words, "the
kinks" can be worked out.
Again, however, that's the real problem: Obama is counting on "the kinks" not
being worked out.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             388 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             January 2, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Court anticlimax on health law? ;
 Justices may decide a technicality bars them from ruling until 2015.

BYLINE: By LAURA GREEN Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When the U.S. Supreme Court decided to take up health care reform, most
observers probably assumed it would either strike down or uphold part or all of
the landmark law requiring virtually every American to buy health insurance.

In fact, in its first day of oral arguments in the case, set for March 26, the
court will weigh the question of whether now is the time to make any decision at
all.

Under the 1867 Anti-Injunction Act, which bars courts from striking down tax
laws before they take effect, the high court could decide to delay any decision
until 2015, when penalties hit those refusing to buy health insurance.

The court had a variety of points on which to evaluate the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act. Led by Florida, 26 states and the National Federation
of Independent Business challenged the law. The U.S. solicitor general,
essentially President Obama's lawyer, also asked the Supreme Court to hear the
case.

The court did not take up every issue, so the fact that it has decided to rule
on this question, essentially a technicality, is significant, some legal
observers say.

But others view it almost as a housekeeping matter the court will dispatch
before addressing the question of whether the federal government can require
nearly every American to buy health insurance.

"If they don't deal with this, whatever side loses will say 'you didn't talk
about the tax Anti-Injunction Act,' and no one wants that," said Bob Jarvis, a
law professor at Nova Southeastern University who regularly provides legal
analysis. "They want to issue an opinion that says we have everything buttoned
up."

The Supreme Court would not have scheduled three days of back-to-back oral
arguments if there were a "remote possibility" it was not going to take up the
merits of the case, agreed John C. Eastman, a professor with the Center for
Constitutional Jurisprudence at Chapman University School of Law in California.

The court has been known to deal with jurisdictional questions separately before
scheduling arguments on issues on which it might not rule, he said.

Eastman, who has argued before the high court, guessed the Anti-Injunction Act
would take "a short, two paragraphs" in whatever opinion it renders.

But Stuart Taylor Jr., a fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington,
surmised: "The justices' assignment of a full hour of oral argument to this
question suggests that some take this issue very seriously.

"If the justices agree that the Anti-Injunction Act applies, this year's case
will be perhaps the greatest anticlimax in Supreme Court history," he wrote in
Kaiser Health News.

A Virginia appeals court already has taken that stance.

The 4th Circuit Court found that the penalty for not buying health insurance is
essentially a tax and therefore courts cannot hear the case until after 2015,
when the first taxes are imposed.

Three other appeals courts moved beyond the tax issue and ruled on whether
health care reform was constitutional.

Only an Atlanta appeals court, which heard the Florida challenge, struck down
any part of the law. It found an individual mandate to buy health insurance
unconstitutional but upheld the rest of the law.

The Anti-Injunction Act was passed to prevent Americans who did not want to pay
their taxes from simply suing and benefiting from the delay, regardless of
whether they had a decent claim. The act says: "Taxes are the life-blood of
government, and their prompt and certain availability an imperious need." As
such, it requires citizens to pay up first and sue later for a refund.

If the court finds that the fine imposed by the Affordable Care Act is a tax and
not a penalty, the Anti-Injunction Act could prevent the court from deciding the
case.

Those who believe that it is a penalty and not a tax point out that citizens can
avoid paying the fine by buying health insurance.

"Focusing on what the Anti-Injunction Act does shows you how weird this argument
is," Eastman said.

Citizens will not be able to seek a refund for not buying health insurance, he
said. "That looks a whole lot more like a penalty."

But Jarvis said the government fueled the argument that it is a tax when it
decided to require citizens to report with their income tax return whether they
have health insurance. Under the Affordable Care Act, if they don't have
insurance, they have to pay a fine when they file their taxes.

"They put it into the tax code because they thought it was the easiest way to do
it, but it could really come back to bite them," he said. "They have opened the
door to an argument that they didn't have to fight."

Still, Jarvis believes the Supreme Court will not force insurance companies,
businesses and states to begin spending millions to gear up for the individual
health insurance mandate, which takes effect in 2014, only to have to wait for a
decision in 2015.

He predicts the court will say: "We are going to strike down Obamacare or
uphold, but we're not going to come back to 2015. There's just too much at
stake."

~ laura_green@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             389 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 20, 2010 Friday

Your Views

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 751 words


Everyone benefits from health-care law

Many people believe the only beneficiaries of the new health-care reform act are
those 30 million Americans who previously lacked health insurance. In fact,
every American benefits from the new law.

When a member of our family underwent medical treatment several years ago, we
were fortunate enough to have good health-care coverage. Without insurance, we
would have lost our home and our retirement savings to protect this family
member's life.

That was when we committed to helping leaders such as Congresswoman Debbie
Halvorson and Dr. David Gill put in place this key missing piece in America's
social safety net.

Like most Americans, we celebrated passage of the new law this past spring. What
we didn't realize is that even though we already have health insurance, we still
benefited from the reforms.

This summer, our health insurance company tried to remove our son from our plan.
Luckily for us, the Affordable Care Act allows families to keep young adult
children on their plans until they turn 26 years old.

We thank Ms. Halvorson, Dr. Gill, Sen. Dick Durbin and President Obama - among
many others - for their courageous leadership and hard work in bringing about a
change toward which our society has been struggling for more than 50 years. They
helped our family and yours, too, even if you're not yet aware of it.

Please join me in supporting Ms. Halvorson and Dr. Gill in this November's
election. We need positive, hard-working, pragmatic leaders like them
representing us in Washington.

Bob Broad

Normal

Astroth's efforts gave Heartland a good start

Nineteen years ago, the Heartland Community College Board of Trustees selected
Jon Astroth to be the college's first president. He assumed this office under
less than ideal circumstances, but through his leadership, dedication and
persistence, the college is now located on a beautiful permanent campus with an
enrollment of over 5,000 students.

The college's development and success, due in no small measure to Astroth's
efforts, has been remarkable. And over these 19 years, many thousands of
students have had the opportunity to attend college, an opportunity that would
have been denied to many had the college not been formed.

Furthermore, the college has served local health care providers, businesses and
companies with a broad array of programs not offered by traditional colleges and
universities.

However, this was not a one-person accomplishment. A supportive board and
Astroth's ability to select excellent personnel have been major factors in the
success of the college. They will continue to serve the college well and provide
valuable support to the new president.

Jon Astroth will be hard to replace. However, the Board of Trustees has made an
excellent choice by selecting Allen Goben as the new president. He has the
experience and ability to continue the work begun by Astroth and his staff.

Heartland is in good hands and will continue to be an asset to the community.

Richard Erzen

Normal

Democrats, unions bilking taxpayers

Taxpayers have been fleeced again by Nancy Pelosi and organized labor.

Pelosi called an emergency session of Congress in order to get $26 billion to
extend payments to the states for teachers and police. I love how politicians
always use the loss of police and firefighters for the shock effect when it
comes to bilking more money from American taxpayers.

This morning's news is that the teachers union in the Illini Bluffs school
district, located in the Peoria area, has just issued an intent to strike if the
board will not come to the bargaining table. Is this what our money is going
toward?

I am sick of the Democratic Party ripping off not only us but our children and
grandchildren in order to appease labor unions for their continued support.

I will not use a union company for anything and I always run into union members
and talk with them but it is always late at night at Walmart, Cub Foods or some
other non-union store. I ask them why they are shopping at a non-union store and
I get no answer.

I am sick of the hypocrisy of both union members and our federal government -
i.e. the Democratic Party. I am really looking forward to Nov. 2 when the fate
of our country will once again be in the hands of the voters.

George Rehker

Bloomington

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Pantagraph


                             390 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Health Insurance Is A Life Savor For Joshua Benson And Millions Of
Others

LENGTH: 503  words

DATELINE: Washington


Generation Progress has issued the following news release:

If you have any doubts about the benefits of the new health insurance law, then
Joshua's story should inspire you.

Joshua Kurt Benson, 28, lives in Delray Beach, FL and has an affordable platinum
health insurance plan--he receives a $212 federal subsidy every month.

For Benson, health insurance is not only important, it's essential. At the age
of 21, Benson was diagnosed with acute idiopathic pancreatitis. His condition
eventually became chronic, forcing him into withdraw from classes.
unnamed

CREDIT: Joshua Kurt Benson

But his condition worsened.

At 24, Benson recalls a major surgery he had at the University of Minnesota, "I
had a total pancreatectomy with auto-islet transplant. My pancreas, spleen,
appendix, duodenum, part of my stomach and part of my intestines were all
removed, rendering me an insulin-dependent Type I Diabetic."

Without insurance, Benson was shelling out $1,000 a month just for his insulin.
Now, because of the Affordable Care Act, he spends $30 for a three-month supply.

Additionally, Benson regularly sees an endocrinologist, as well as a primary
care physician, to stay on top of his health. Overall, the Affordable Care Act
has improved Benson's health and quality of life.

Not only does he have a better insurance plan, but also he has a better
livelihood and is able to save money for a rainy day, or for future
homeownership. This is great for Benson and countless young Americans who are
gaining insurance--an estimated 3 to 4 million young Americans have gained
health insurance since the ACA roll out last year.

The law is certainly imperfect though.

A new report by WebMD alleges that some insurance companies are using loopholes
in the health law to unreasonably up-charge patients with preexisting conditions
through co-pays and deductibles.

Specifically, the report alleges that some insurance companies are "adverse
tiering" drugs needed to treat HIV. Someone with HIV could potentially pay
$3,000 a year due to this shady effort. This is one way that insurance companies
are resisting mandates to cover preexisting conditions.

We must move forward by ensuring that every American--including young
Americans--have access to secure, affordable health insurance without the risk
of surcharges or adverse tiering. The law's intent is clear, and for Benson, the
law gives him the security to have health insurance despite having a preexisting
condition that could have otherwise stopped him from gaining insurance.

Benson is one of countless Americans helped by the new health law, but more
needs to be done to protect those who are being discriminated by the system.

Here's a proposal: Republicans come together with Democrats to fix the law's
shortfalls, instead of recklessly and constantly attempting to repeal it
entirely.

Amir Salehzadeh is a reporter for Generation Progress. Follow him on Twitter
@amirsalehzadeh.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             391 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: Health Insurance Is A Life Savor For Joshua Benson And Millions Of
Others

LENGTH: 503  words

DATELINE: Washington


Generation Progress has issued the following news release:

If you have any doubts about the benefits of the new health insurance law, then
Joshua's story should inspire you.

Joshua Kurt Benson, 28, lives in Delray Beach, FL and has an affordable platinum
health insurance plan--he receives a $212 federal subsidy every month.

For Benson, health insurance is not only important, it's essential. At the age
of 21, Benson was diagnosed with acute idiopathic pancreatitis. His condition
eventually became chronic, forcing him into withdraw from classes.
unnamed

CREDIT: Joshua Kurt Benson

But his condition worsened.

At 24, Benson recalls a major surgery he had at the University of Minnesota, "I
had a total pancreatectomy with auto-islet transplant. My pancreas, spleen,
appendix, duodenum, part of my stomach and part of my intestines were all
removed, rendering me an insulin-dependent Type I Diabetic."

Without insurance, Benson was shelling out $1,000 a month just for his insulin.
Now, because of the Affordable Care Act, he spends $30 for a three-month supply.

Additionally, Benson regularly sees an endocrinologist, as well as a primary
care physician, to stay on top of his health. Overall, the Affordable Care Act
has improved Benson's health and quality of life.

Not only does he have a better insurance plan, but also he has a better
livelihood and is able to save money for a rainy day, or for future
homeownership. This is great for Benson and countless young Americans who are
gaining insurance--an estimated 3 to 4 million young Americans have gained
health insurance since the ACA roll out last year.

The law is certainly imperfect though.

A new report by WebMD alleges that some insurance companies are using loopholes
in the health law to unreasonably up-charge patients with preexisting conditions
through co-pays and deductibles.

Specifically, the report alleges that some insurance companies are "adverse
tiering" drugs needed to treat HIV. Someone with HIV could potentially pay
$3,000 a year due to this shady effort. This is one way that insurance companies
are resisting mandates to cover preexisting conditions.

We must move forward by ensuring that every American--including young
Americans--have access to secure, affordable health insurance without the risk
of surcharges or adverse tiering. The law's intent is clear, and for Benson, the
law gives him the security to have health insurance despite having a preexisting
condition that could have otherwise stopped him from gaining insurance.

Benson is one of countless Americans helped by the new health law, but more
needs to be done to protect those who are being discriminated by the system.

Here's a proposal: Republicans come together with Democrats to fix the law's
shortfalls, instead of recklessly and constantly attempting to repeal it
entirely.

Amir Salehzadeh is a reporter for Generation Progress. Follow him on Twitter
@amirsalehzadeh.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             392 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Warrnambool Standard

                             March 30, 2012 Friday

The clock is ticking for US President Barack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 317 words


The clock is ticking for US President Barack Obama's healthcare reform law after
the supreme court heard three days of arguments on his signature domestic
policy.

One of the main decisions for the nine-member court is whether to overturn a key
provision of the law that requires Americans to buy health insurance if they are
not covered by their employers.

A decision is expected before the court's term ends in late June, as the
presidential election is kicking into high gear.

Many voters on both sides feel strongly about the law, and bringing it back into
public view at that time would be an embarrassment for the president while
energising both supporters and opponents.

The measure requiring the purchase of health insurance is deeply unpopular with
the American public. The broader health care measure is more popular, with 43
per cent in favour and 46 per cent opposed.

Observers have pointed to the ideologically divided court's traditional swing
votes. CNN supreme court reporter Jeffrey Toobin called the proceedings a "train
wreck" for the government.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, closely watched as usually the most likely of the
court's five conservatives to join the four left-leaning justices in majority
decisions, called the law's impact "concerning".

Justice Kennedy said the law's requirement that people buy health insurance
would change "the relationship between the individual and government in a
fundamental way".

White House deputy spokesman Josh Earnest called it "foolhardy to try to predict
the outcome of this decision".

President Obama pushed for the law to help an estimated 30 million people
without health insurance pay for care and address soaring costs in one of the
few wealthy nations that does not guarantee insurance coverage to all citizens.

But conservative opponents of the law argue that Congress overstepped its
boundaries by requiring citizens to purchase a product. DPA

Only

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             393 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                            January 11, 2010 Monday

Who will make us buy health insurance?

BYLINE: By LARRY A. HICKS The York Dispatch

SECTION: COLUMNISTS/LARRY HICKS

LENGTH: 792 words


Ihave to admit I'm amused by the notion that President Obama and Congressional
Democrats believe they can actually force Americans to purchase health insurance
they might not want or can't afford.

Forget it. It can't be done. And even if it could be done, it won't be done
because the feds don't have the ability to enforce the law. They might have the
will to enforce it, but they don't have the manpower to enforce it and never
will unless they decide to triple the size of the federal work force. Even then,
it won't get done.

Never mind the discussion that should take place about the constitutionality of
forcing Americans to buy anything they don't want to buy. If the feds told us we
all had to purchase a farm tractor next week, would we do it? No. If the feds
told us we all had to buy a computer within six months, would we do it? I don't
think so.

Don't need it? Can't afford it? Then why buy it? You think people are going to
give up their beer and cigarettes or the latest fashion for health insurance
when they feel perfectly healthy? Forget it.

If the feds told us we had to buy a new car, a new pair of boots, a new
umbrella, a new baseball mitt, a new set of living room furniture, would we do
it? I doubt it very much.

Why not? Because it is not a role of the federal government to tell us what we
have to buy or not buy. And that includes, in my judgment, health insurance.

Now if someone wants health insurance, they should be able to purchase it. If
they need health insurance, they should be able to buy it. But if they don't
want it or don't need it, where do the feds get off telling them they have to
spend a few hundred dollars a month to buy it.

Nevertheless, President Obama believes everyone must have health insurance --
and darn few exceptions will be permitted. There will be a fine imposed, a
healthy fine. One way or the other, people will be expected to pay up.

Which is laughable. How in the world will the feds enforce such a law, given all
the other laws on the books they can't enforce, either.

The income tax laws, for example.

At any given time, there are about 140 million Americans who should be paying
federal income taxes. Also, at any given time, the feds are lucky if 95 million
actually pay what they owe.

There are those folks who file a return, but claim not to owe any taxes. There
are those who file a return but fail to report goodly portions of their income.
There are those who legitimately don't file a tax return because they don't earn
enough money to be required to file. There are those who work mostly in the
underground economy -- paid in cash -- who simply don't report any of it as
income. There are those who simply don't believe in sharing what they earn with
the government and refuse to report their earnings.

All together that could amount to as many as 50 million Americans a year who
don't pay the federal government taxes on all or part of their incomes. That
amounts to as much as $200 billion a year -- owed, but not paid.

Now the law says all Americans who earn above a certain amount of money must pay
income taxes on it. But do they? No.

And they get away with it. Why? Because the feds either don't have the time, the
resources or the inclination to chase these people down.

The state of Pennsylvania has a law that requires owners of all manner of motor
vehicles to have insurance -- car insurance, truck insurance, motorcycle
insurance, motor scooter insurance. If it's licensed, it's supposed to be
insured.

Yet, every day people are involved in auto accidents where one of the drivers
has failed to pay his/her insurance premiums or refused to get insurance at all.

Do they get caught? Sometimes. But they know how to work the system and get away
with it more times than not.

So what makes President Obama think for a second that the federal government is
going to be able to mandate health insurance for people who don't want it or
need it. The 25-year-old in perfect health -- do you think he's going to spend
$300 of his precious monthly income to buy health insurance he doesn't think he
needs?

Even with the law, do you think someone who has to pay rent/a house payment,
groceries, alimony or child support, a car payment, gas for the car, two or
three utilities, clothing, credit card payments, school lunches for the kids,
shoes, cable TV, etc. is going to deprive himself/herself of any of those things
to purchase health insurance he/she doesn't want or need?

Human nature being what it is, I doubt it.

I'm thinking health insurance is going to be pretty far down on the list of
bills to be paid.

And the feds are living in some sort of dream world if they think otherwise.

Columns by Larry A. Hicks, Dispatch columnist, run Mondays, Wednesdays and
Fridays. E-mail: lhicks@yorkdispatch.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             394 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                Inside Counsel (formerly Corporate Legal Times)

                                   June 2015

Potential mergers could mean higher costs, fewer insurance options for consumers

BYLINE: By Ed Silverstein

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 618  words


There has been a flurry of reports about possible mergers and acquisitions
involving the five biggest U.S. health insurance companies.

Most recently, Anthem has offered to buy Cigna for $47 billion. It appears Cigna
does not want to be acquired - at least for now. UnitedHealth Group and Aetna
are also considering a merger, according to news reports. Humana may be
acquired, as well. The end result could be just three major companies providing
health insurance to Americans. Fewer options could mean less in the way of plan
options and higher costs for businesses and consumers.

Legally, there are many corporate issues related to the possible mergers and
acquisitions including questions connected to antitrust law. But there also
practical issues related to companies which need to provide insurance options
for their employees.

________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________

FURTHER READING:

Legal departments await ruling on King v. Burwell case

New FTC rules could make challenging antitrust cases tougher

Is there a monopoly in healthcare in Florida's southern Brevard County?

________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________

"Certainly rates could go up for companies if there is no competition among
carriers," Ellen Weber, a law professor at the University of Maryland, told
InsideCounsel when asked about the potential for mergers in the sector.

She points out, too, that access to care is "dependent on the network of
providers and whether providers are getting adequate reimbursement."

"Providers will have more limited negotiation power if there are fewer carriers
and if consumers are increasingly covered by a handful of carriers," she added.

On the other hand, insurance rates in the individual and small-employer markets
are reviewed by state insurance departments. That means that proposed rate
increases can be denied by state regulators, she adds.

"But competition among carriers is needed to make that work effectively," Weber
said. "Consolidation of insurance carriers could undermine the health plan
options for consumers who purchase plans as an individual or through a small
employer."

Consider also some of the basic assumptions involved with recent health
insurance reform. "Healthcare reform is premised on the fact that carriers will
want to enter the markets in states to meet the increased demand for coverage
and the mix of healthier, less costly enrollees," she explained. "That should
drive down premium costs and increase quality as a way of attracting new
enrollees."

When it comes to sufficient insurance options for consumers, Weber said "a
standard set of benefits must be offered by all plans, and limitations on the
consumer's expenses exist under law."

The possibility of health insurance company mergers comes after the enactment of
the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. A recent news report suggests
that Obamacare is actually leading to "oligopolies" in the health insurance
market.

The merger movement also comes at a time when the nation is awaiting a major
decision from the Supreme Court on subsidies related to Obamacare - the King v.
Burwell case.

Some industry analysts are saying the move to mergers among health insurance
companies is a result, in part, from the effects of Obamacare.

In addition, physicians' offices, hospitals and other healthcare providers are
also seeing an increasing number of mergers. The mergers in this sector are also
being tied in part to Obamacare by some industry watchers.

Meanwhile, companies and their general counsel are watching events unfold as the
potential exists for much higher insurance costs.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                Copyright 2015 The National Underwriter Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             395 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

              Wyoming Life & Health Insurance Guaranty Association

                                 P.O. Box 36009
                               Denver,  CO 80236
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (800) 670-9091
URL: www.wlhiga.org

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   The Wyoming Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association is a nonprofit
organization made up of members from the life and health insurance industry that
are licensed to sell annuities, life and/or health insurance products in
Wyoming.  Why was the Wyoming Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association
formed?  The Wyoming Legislature enacted a law (The Wyoming Life and Health
Insurance Guaranty Association Act) authorizing the formation of this
organization to assist Wyoming residents who hold annuities, life, or health
insurance policies issued by insurance carriers who become insolvent.  What
Wyoming law gives authority to the Wyoming Life and Health Insurance Guaranty
Association? Wyoming Statute 26-42-101, et seq., The Wyoming Life and Health
Insurance Guaranty Association Act, which became law on July 1, 1991.  Who does
the Wyoming Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association help? Except under
certain very restrictive conditions, in order to be covered by the Wyoming Life
and Health Insurance Guaranty Association, a person must be a resident of
Wyoming. In addition, assistance is not available if the insurer was unable to
meet its obligations or was declared insolvent by a court before July 1, 1990.
Where does the Association get its funds? The Association charges annual fees to
its members. It will also assess the members following a determination that
certain insurers' policies will be covered. These fees are then used to pay the
claims of Wyoming residents who h

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                             396 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Japan Times

                            November 4, 2011, Friday

Ruling on 'mixed' treatment

LENGTH: 404 words


If one combines medical treatment covered by public health insurance with
medical treatment not covered by such insurance, using newly developed treatment
methods or drugs not yet approved by the public health insurance system, in
principle one has to pay all the costs for both types of treatment.

A kidney cancer patient from Fujisawa, Kanagawa Prefecture, received interferon
treatment, covered by public health insurance, and another treatment not covered
by such insurance. He had to shoulder all the costs for both types of treatment
due to the government rule on "mixed medical treatment."

He filed a lawsuit to get public health insurance benefits for the interferon
treatment.

In 2007, the Tokyo District Court ruled in his favor, saying that no explicit
legal provisions to back the rule existed. But in 2009 the Tokyo High Court
reversed the ruling. On Oct. 25, in its first ruling of its kind, the Supreme
Court supported the government rule.

Under the Health Insurance Law, certain types of advanced treatment methods or
drugs not yet approved by the public health insurance system are allowed to be
used in combination with medical treatment covered by public health insurance.
In these cases, public health insurance benefits are provided for the portion of
the treatment covered by such insurance, constituting exceptions to the rule on
mixed medical treatment.

The 2009 high court ruling said that the existence of these exceptions means
that mixed medical treatment not covered by them cannot receive any public
health insurance benefits. The top court's No. 3 Petit Bench in a 5-0 decision
upheld the high court's reasoning. It said that some constraints on public
health insurance benefits are unavoidable in order to ensure safety and
efficiency of medical treatment and due to financial restrictions. But the
government must pay attention to the fact that three of the five justices called
on it to expand the exceptions to the rule on mixed medical treatment by
accepting medical treatment methods and drugs whose safety and efficiency have
been established abroad.

The government must engage enough experts to quickly test newly developed
medical treatment methods and drugs with a view to safety, efficiency and
reasonable prices. It should realize that its approval system is not speedily
responding to calls by doctors and patients for advanced medical treatment
methods and drugs.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2011 The Japan Times Ltd.


                             397 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 5, 2007 Monday

Walrath: State not acting on new law

BYLINE: By Hillary Chabot, hchabot@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 670 words


BOSTON -- One of the chief authors of the state's historic health-insurance
reform is scolding Gov. Deval Patrick's administration for dragging its feet on
implementing parts of the law.

The Division of Insurance, currently overseen by Insurance Commissioner Nonnie
Burnes, did not fully staff a bureau meant to educate the public about the cost
of the broad legislation, said Rep. Patricia Walrath.

"We're waiting for them to do something," said the Stow Democrat. "Some of the
duties we have given them, the (Health Insurance) Connector has kind of taken
over because there was a vacuum. We're disappointed they haven't hired the
people we more or less mandated them to hire."

The bill, signed into law in April 2006, requires all state residents to have
health insurance by Dec. 31. They face a $219 charge on their state tax returns
next year if they haven't signed up, and the penalties will increase the year
after that.

The law established a health-care access bureau under the Division of Insurance.
The bureau was to have a deputy commissioner, a finance expert, an actuary and a
research analyst to oversee health insurance for small groups and individuals.

Lawmakers have earmarked $1 million for the bureau since the law passed so they
could hire staff and get information to people about accessing affordable health
insurance.

The Division of Insurance appointed Kevin Beagan, also the director of the state
rating bureau, as deputy commissioner. The law requires staff members to devote
full time their duties to the office, even though Beagan holds two positions.

Kim Haberlin, spokeswoman for the Insurance Commission, said the department will
appoint an actuary and a research analyst within the next week. A number of
issues prevented them from staffing the bureau sooner, from a hiring freeze to
difficulty luring actuaries to the public sector, Haberlin said.

The bureau in the meantime contracted outside actuaries, who conducted studies
on the availability of health savings accounts, rates in the small-group market,
plans chosen by large employers and relative costs, and an analysis of major
factors behind health-care cost increases, Haberlin said. The bureau also sent
out consumer material to senior centers, colleges, public libraries and
employers regarding public health-care reform earlier this year, and it has more
material on the way.

"The implementation of health-care reform is a significant undertaking and the
Division of Insurance is pleased that its Health Care Access Unit is making
progress on a number of fronts, including conducting consumer and employer
outreach and education and completing several pertinent studies examining
health-care availability and costs in the state," said Haberlin.

While the Health Insurance Connector Board has taken much of the responsibility
of educating people about the tricky law, state residents need all the help they
can get, said Walrath.

"Health insurance is a huge, huge issue and it covers across a number of
agencies, and certainly the insurance commissioner and the department of
insurance should be part of this," Walrath said. "We did not picture the
Connector doing everything here, nor is it wise for one agency do everything."

The Department of Health and Human Services also hasn't fully staffed a
health-care Outreach and Education Unit required by the new law. The agency was
given $200,000 to create a health-care reform education unit, but Health and
Human Services just began the final round of interviews of potential staffers
this month.

Senate Ways and Means Chairman Steve Panagiotakos, D-Lowell, said the groups
will need to pitch in as the groundbreaking law is implemented.

"We're probably ahead of expectations on enrollment, and there's more people
coming out of the woodwork," Panagiotakos said. "The outreach is doing very
well, people are signing up, but you'll need further outreach on those on
individual mandates. That's going to be when the rubber hits the road, when
people are going to have to pay for health insurance."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             398 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

Washington: What the Healthcare Law Means for your Small Business & (En Español)
Que Significa la Ley de Salud para su Pequeña Empresa

LENGTH: 217  words

DATELINE: Washington


U.S. Small Business Administration, The Government of USA has issued the
following news release:

What the Healthcare Law Means for your Small Business & (En Español) Que
Significa la Ley de Salud para su Pequeña Empresa

Dec. 3, 10, 17; Español: Dec. 4, 18

Join us for this webinar series that will be available in English and Spanish
discussing the new healthcare law - the Affordable Care Act - and what it means
for California small businesses. We will focus on the key federal and state
provisions impacting small businesses and what new health insurance options are
now available. Topics Include:

Covered California - a one-stop shop online health insurance marketplace where
small businesses and the self-employed can shop for health coverage for their
needs and budget
 Small business tax credits (available to businesses and non-profits) - who is
eligible for them and how to claim them
 New consumer protections
 How the law contains health insurance costs
 Employer and individual shared responsibility
 Tools and resources available for small businesses

For more information in advance of this series please visit the Covered
California Website.

And you can sign-up HERE to be contacted by a certified agent to discuss your
health insurance options.

For more information please visit: http://www.sba.gov


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             399 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                  ROP Edition

HEALTH INSURANCE;
'Industry code' key when comparing rates

BYLINE:

Julie Jette

SECTION: News; pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words


In order to price one of the new insurance policies available as a result of the
health insurance law passed last year, you need to know your age, ZIP code and
something called your "industry code."

The codes were created in the 1930s by the federal government as a way to
classify different industries. To check the price of an insurance policy on the
Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority's Web site
(mahealthconnector.org), you need to know which industry you would fall into.

Sound simple? It's not.

The codes being used by insurance companies are part of a system called the
Standard Industrial Classification. They were last updated in 1987 and the
entire system was abandoned by the federal government a decade ago in favor of a
revamped system with more codes for service industries.

Insurance companies will now use the codes to distinguish between jobs in which
workers tend to have more expensive insurance claims and those in which claims
tend to be cheaper.

The use of the codes in setting prices for individual health insurance policies
is new in the Bay State. Companies were not allowed to apply industry codes to
individual health insurance policies in the past.

They were, however, allowed to apply them to small businesses or groups that
purchased health insurance.

The markets for individual health insurance plans and for small groups used to
be separate; the new law combined those markets.

Health insurance policies for individuals were always much more expensive than
those available to groups. That was because only about 50,000 people were
covered in the individual market, compared with 800,000 in the small-group
market, according to Dr. Marylou Buyse, president of the Massachusetts
Association of Health Plans.

Thus there were fewer people to share the cost of claims with.

Now that the individual market has been absorbed into the small-group market, it
is reasonable that industry rating codes should be applied to everyone, Buyse
said.

But finding your code might not be easy. On the Connector's Web site you can
click through a variety of job categories, but some jobs don't fit neatly.

"The industry designations are kind of wacky, frankly," said John McDonough,
executive director of Health Care For All, an advocacy group.

McDonough said that after clicking around on the Web site for a bit he still
couldn't figure out what category his own job would fall under.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Patriot Ledger


                             400 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Daily Yomiuri

                             August 2, 1996, Friday

Ministry airs health insurance reform plans

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 209 words


The Health and Welfare Ministry has presented 38 draft plans to the Health
Insurance Council to reform national health insurance and their possible effect
on public finance, officials said.

The ministry asked the council Wednesday to work out a detailed reform plan.
Officials estimate that the deficit in health insurance will decrease by 1.57
trillion yen in 2001 if the patient's share of medication costs is increased to
30 percent from the present 20 percent for primary beneficiaries of insurance
policies.

If the patient's share is increased to 50 percent, ministry officials estimate
that the deficit will decrease by 3.15 trillion yen.

The council, an advisory body to the health and welfare minister, will work out
a reform plan in September, based on the draft plans and ministry estimates.

One reform plan calls for changing the structure of how aged patients currently
pay for medical service and medication. Instead of paying the current flat fees
of 1,010 yen a month for outpatient care and 700 yen a day for inpatient care,
the plan proposes applying a uniform 10 percent charge for each visit or
prescription.

The ministry is to submit bills to revise the Health Insurance Law and related
laws to the Diet next year.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1996 The Daily Yomiuri


                             401 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             March 8, 1988 Tuesday

Bid for family OHIP coverage by lesbian couple is dismissed

BYLINE: ANDRE PICARD; GAM

LENGTH: 545 words


BY  ANDRE PICARD
The Globe and Mail
  The Ontario Supreme Court has ruled that a lesbian couple does not have
the same right as heterosexual couples to family coverage under the
Ontario Health Insurance Plan.

In dismissing a lesbian couple's bid to be considered a family for OHIP
purposes, Mr. Justice Nicholson McRae ruled that, legally, a spouse can
only be someone of the opposite sex.

Karen Andrews , an employee of the Toronto Public Library Board, had
asked that Mary Trenholm , her live-in partner for nine years and the
mother of two children, be considered her spouse so they would be eligible
for family coverage paid by her employer.

The word "spouse" is not defined in the Health Insurance Act , but OHIP
considers a spouse to be a person of the opposite sex married or living
common law with the registrant, without any regard to the time they have
been living together.

The couple's lawyer argued in court that they were discriminated
against on the basis of sexual orientation, a contravention of the Ontario
Human Rights Code. He also argued that the ruling was an unreasonable
infringement of equality rights guaranteed in the Charter of Rights and
Freedoms.

In dismissing the case, Judge McRae said that homosexual couples living
together can be considered a "distinct class" without the same legal
obligations or rights as heterosexuals.

"Homosexual couples are not similarly situated to heterosexual
couples," Judge McRae wrote in the judgment released on Friday.
"Heterosexual couples procreate and raise children. They marry or are
potential marriage partners and, most importantly, they have legal
obligations of support for their children, whether born in wedlock or out,
and for their spouses pursuant to the (law). A same-sex partner does not
and cannot have these obligations."

He said that Ms Andrews and Ms Trenholm are being treated exactly the
same as all other single people in the province.

Judge McRae said that to be administratively and economically
practical, the Health Insurance Act must exclude some people from family
coverage. He said the legislative goal of maintaining traditional families
is acceptable and does not single out homosexual couples for
discrimination.

The ruling added that the current law does not have a significant
economic impact on homosexual couples, nor does it impair their lifestyle.

OHIP premiums for singles are $29.75 monthly, while couples pay $59.50.

Judge McRae said he did not consider the provisions of the Ontario
Human Rights Code because the couple had not filed a formal complaint with
the Ontario Human Rights Commission before taking legal action.

He said the Charter arguments had "no merit" and, even if they did, the
denial of family status to a homosexual couple could be considered a
reasonable limitation of their rights.

Mary Cook, vice-president of Local 1996 of the Canadian Union of Public
Employees, which sponsored the legal challenge, said the decision probably
will be appealed.

"The decision is a blow for human rights concerning lesbians and gays
and a setback for unions because of the interpretation placed on the
collective agreement in the area of benefits," she said.

Ms Cook said the union was "very disappointed because the result is a
two-tiered benefits structure - one for homosexuals and another for
heterosexuals."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1988 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             402 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

The color of greed;
Money grabs threaten health coverage law

SECTION: EDITORIAL; IN OUR OPINION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 365 words


Massachusetts' pioneering health insurance law, launched last year in an
effusion of high-minded good intentions, is in danger of devolving into a
money-grubbing free-for-all. That must not be allowed to happen.

The program is intended to make insurance coverage affordable for all by
offering new insurance choices. It is intended to reduce waste in the health
care system by getting people out of expensive hospital emergency rooms and into
the offices of primary care physicians. It is intended to ease the burden of the
"uncompensated care pool" on taxpayers, hospitals and consumers.

Recent indications that insurers, who stand to gain many thousands of new
customers as a result of the insurance mandate, view the law as a potential
windfall to be exploited are highly disappointing.

The insurers have been sent back to the drawing board after submitting proposals
carrying premiums of $380 a month - for a basic, high-deductible policy that
lawmakers calculated should have premiums in the $250 range. Regrettably, the
insurers seem to have chosen to submit high-ball figures as opening bids instead
of offering good-faith proposals in the first place.

Meanwhile, the agency that is supposed to act as a watchdog over the mandatory
insurance system is cashing in as well. The average salary at the Commonwealth
Health Insurance Connector Authority is a whopping $111,000, a recent Boston
Globe analysis revealed. Fifteen of the 22 employees make between $90,000 and
$225,000, the salary of executive director Jon M. Kingsdale.

That largess, bankrolled from the $25 million in taxpayer money appropriated to
get the connector authority started, raises doubts about the depth of the
authority's commitment to forging a leaner, more affordable health insurance
system.

Sen. Richard T. Moore, an architect and champion of the health insurance law,
has suggested that if insurers fail to offer affordable policies on their own,
the state will be forced to regulate rates, as it does for auto insurance
policies. That would be a highly undesirable turn of events, but it eventually
could become an unavoidable last resort to prevent Massachusetts' bold health
insurance experiment from foundering.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             403 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday

First CarolinaCare Insurance in Moore County cancels plans to offer coverage
through Federal Health Insurance Exchange

BYLINE: Paul Woolverton, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 362 words


Sept. 14--PINEHURST -- Citing uncertainties, a Moore County insurance company
has canceled its plans to offer health insurance to the general public through
the federal health care reform program.

This leaves the state with only two insurance providers that have said they will
sell policies through the government's Health Insurance Marketplace when it goes
online Oct. 1.

The Marketplace, also called the Federal Health Insurance Exchange, is a website
where uninsured people will be able to compare prices and coverage and buy
health insurance. It is designed to help them comply with the Affordable Care
Act, also called Obamacare, the health reform law backed by President Obama that
says most Americans must obtain health insurance by Jan. 1.

The Moore County insurance company bowing out of the Marketplace,
FirstCarolinaCare Insurance Co., is owned by FirstHealth of the Carolinas, the
hospital system based in Pinehurst. It planned to offer 16 insurance policies
through the Marketplace to people in Moore, Richmond, Montgomery, Hoke, Scotland
and Lee counties. Its decision came Thursday.

"When we originally proposed participation in the exchange, we recognized that
there were many unknowns for all of us," said Kenneth J. Lewis, president of
FirstCarolinaCare Insurance. "However, after months of review, there continue to
be uncertainties in the exchange implementation and processes for insurers.

"After further assessment of the uncertainties related to the exchange and
consideration of our overall business strategy, we reluctantly came to the
conclusion to withdraw our application to participate in the exchange."

Nonprofit Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina announced plans to sell
policies through the Marketplace statewide. Published reports say Coventry
Health Care of the Carolinas also plans to offer coverage, but details have not
been announced.

Coventry is a subsidiary of Aetna.

Staff writer Paul Woolverton can be reached at woolvertonp@fayobserver.com or
486-3512.

___ (c)2013 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130914-FY-First-CarolinaCare-Insurance-in-Moore-County-cancels-plans-to-offer-
coverage-through-Federal-Health-Insurance-Exchange-0914-20130914

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2013 The Fayetteville Observer


                             404 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

Officials say outlook positive for more towns endorsing health-care reform law

BYLINE: By Chris Camire, ccamire@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 914 words


BOSTON -- Only four municipalities have taken advantage of a controversial
health-care reform law signed by Gov. Deval Patrick five months ago, but
administration officials are expecting a flood of cities and towns to join the
money-saving program in the new year.

"When we did a rough estimate of what we thought this reform would mean for
municipalities if all municipalities were to take advantage of it, we thought
there would be $100 million in savings," Administration and Finance Secretary
Jay Gonzalez said. "We're going to blow past the $100 million."

Arlington, Somerville, Wakefield and Gardner will see premium reductions of $9.9
million, and employees in those communities will see $8.4 million in premium and
benefits savings, as a result of changing their health-insurance plans through
the new law, Gonzalez said.

The law gives public employees 30 days to discuss changes to their plans with
local officials once the community's city council or board of selectmen votes to
adopt the law. If no agreement is reached, however, municipalities are allowed
to unilaterally raise employees' out-of-pocket expenses as long as they are in
line with what state workers pay for health care.

Mayors and city managers have warned that the cost of co-payments and
deductibles must shift away from municipalities to public employees to prevent
massive layoffs and cuts to public services.

Representatives of public unions have strongly opposed any proposal that would
weaken their collective-bargaining power.

"We had the opportunity to save a whole bunch of taxpayer money, so we jumped
right on it," said Gardner Mayor Mark Hawke, who added that his community was
the first to change its health-insurance plans through the program.

Gardner's health-insurance costs were on track to jump from $4 million in 2006
to $7.25 million this year, an increase Hawke called "huge."

Gardner added deductibles ($250 for individuals and $750 for families),
increased co-pays from $10 to $25 or $35 depending on the type of doctor visit,
and offered financial incentives to patients who choose local hospitals over
more expensive facilities in Boston.

Those changes mean premium payments will decrease by 6 percent to 10 percent,
Hawke said, saving the city and its workers a total of $830,000.

The legislation awards employees a 25 percent share of any first-year savings
achieved through changes made to their insurance plans, in an attempt to offset
the increases in co-pays and deductibles.

Hawke awarded Gardner's unions a one-month holiday from premium payments, which
he said will save those on a family plan $400 and those on an individual plan
$250.

"This was change so, of course, there was resistance," Hawke said. "The unions
were not happy."

Chelmsford has been trying to reduce its health-insurance costs for several
years but has run into stiff union opposition, Town Manager Paul Cohen said. In
2009, Cohen failed to get the town's 16 unions to put to a vote a measure that
would have allowed it to enter the state's health-insurance plan.

As a result, the town's Board of Selectmen adopted the new law earlier this
year. Town administrators and labor unions are at the tail end of the 30-day
negotiating window.

"Every month that goes by is another month of potential savings," said Cohen,
who estimates that Chelmsford could save $1 million by altering its health-care
plans. "The quicker we can reach agreement and implement reform, the sooner the
town can achieve savings."

Ten municipalities have adopted the new law but not yet started the negotiation
process. They are Bedford, Beverly, Everett, Fall River, Ludlow,
Manchester-by-the-Sea, Plymouth, Salem, Webster and Westford.

In Lowell, the City Council voted 8-1 in September to delay for three months
voting on the new health-insurance law. Councilors urged City Manager Bernie
Lynch to work with employees under the guidelines of the state legislation to
come up with changes to employee health-care plans that both management and
municipal unions would accept.

The three-month period is set to expire in mid-December, and Lynch said he hopes
to reach an agreement with the city's unions before then. If not, the law gives
Lynch an avenue to save the city between $6 million and $8 million that did not
exist before the municipal health-insurance reform law was passed.

"I think we're getting close," Lynch said. "The negotiations have been good.
We're providing them information. We've been talking about issues of the
mitigation fund that the law requires. We've been talking about different ways
to achieve that savings."

Thirteen other communities reached new health-insurance agreements with their
labor unions after the legislation was filed but before it was signed into law
by Patrick.

"They will tell you that the reason they were able to reach agreement was the
fact that there was this law that was about to be passed that was going to
prescribe how they do this," Gonzalez said.

In the first year of the new law, Gonzalez expects that about 50 communities
will use it to save money on health insurance.

Why haven't more signed on?

Hawke believes some communities were wary of making a decision that could be
politically unpopular, particularly before the fall elections.

"It goes to political fortitude," Hawke said. "There were some that wanted to
wait until after the election. Unions are powerful. If you want to change their
benefits, the locals aren't going to like it because there is more potential for
out-of-pocket costs."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             405 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                            March 24, 1998, Tuesday

Industry defends premium cost for high-risk health insurance

BYLINE: FROM WIRE AND STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: INSURANCE; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Under fire from President Clinton and Congress, the health insurance industry
defended insurance companies that charge extraordinarily high premiums under a
new law meant to assure that Americans don't lose insurance when they change
jobs.

""It's not a surprise,'' Bill Gradison, president of the Health Insurance
Association of America, told a Senate committee last week.

CLINTON, CONGRESS AWARE

Mr. Gradison said President Clinton and Congress were well aware that premiums
would be high if they forced insurance companies to write policies for people
who are already sick and certain to need expensive treatment.

        The less insurance companies charge these high-risk customers, he said,
the more they'll have to charge everyone else.

        A new General Accounting Office report found companies charging 140
percent to 600 percent of standard premiums, withholding commissions to agents
who sell these policies and stalling so long that a customer is no longer
eligible for protection under the law.

        Because the GAO report focused only on four states - where it found
insurers charging rates up to 600 percent higher than standard for those
eligible for coverage under the 1996 law - it ""leaves readers thinking that the
problem of extremely high rates is the norm,'' Mr. Gradison told an oversight
hearing of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee. ""That is not the
case,'' he said.

Indeed, Mr. Gradison noted in his testimony, 33 states have spread risks
successfully - and kept premiums down - by using ""high risk pools'' and other
mechanisms.

A release issued at the hearing by another insurance group, the Council for
Affordable Health Insurance, was blunter still, accusing the GAO of using ""
vague and unsubstantiated charges against insurers.''

The council also said higher premiums found by the GAO are based on health
status, rather than the fact that individuals in question are eligible for
coverage under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, commonly
known as the Kausebaum-Kennedy law.

STILL IN EARLY STAGES

Alessandro Tuppa, superin- tendent of insurance, Maine, and a member of the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners, told members of the committee
that implementation of HIPAA is still in the early stages, and ""we believe that
the health insurance industry, for the most part, is attempting to comply with a
new and complex law.''

President Clinton has ordered the Department of Health and Human Services to
send insurance companies warnings that it is illegal to impede access to
insurance under the new law.

But there is nothing illegal about charging high prices - as much as $15, 000
more than normal policies. In fact, Mr. Gradison pointed to a Clinton
administration document from 1996 that predicted rates would be high for people
seeking insurance.

FURIOUS ON CAPITOL HILL

Still, Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill were furious that the law was
not living up to their promises.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., introduced legislation capping the prices
companies can charge for insurance.

Sen. James Jeffords, R-Vt., cited a Colorado study finding some premiums were
2,000 percent higher than normal insurance rates.

""With rates of that magnitude, I'm not sure you can still call it insurance,''
said Sen. Jeffords, chairman of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee

And Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., issued a warning to the numerous insurance
companies that call Connecticut home. He said they better fix the problems on
their own or legislation ""will sweep through the Congress.''

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                             406 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

State readies for health law

BYLINE: Tim Eaton AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 561 words


While Texas' top political leaders continue to fight the federal government's
new health care law, the state's insurance department is charging forward with a
schedule to put it into place.

Katrina Daniel, an associate commissioner with the Texas Department of
Insurance, testified Monday before a joint hearing of the state House's
insurance and public health committees, where she described several ways in
which the department is rolling out the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act.

So far, the department has expanded the scope of rate reviews, hosted a
symposium and gathered input from insurers and consumer groups. The department
also has launched a help line, a website and a statewide education program to
give people the details about the new law, Daniel said.

Daniel said the department has already answered almost 9,000 calls on the law
and held 179 of 190 scheduled outreach events. But as Daniel and the Texas
Department of Insurance work to comply with the controversial 2010 law that
seeks to expand access to health insurance to 30 million Americans, Texas
Attorney General Greg Abbott is challenging the constitutionality of the
individual mandate to buy insurance.

Officials from Texas and several other states are scheduled to appear before the
U.S. Supreme Court for three days of arguments on the new law beginning March
26. A ruling is expected by the end of June, said Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for
Abbott.

Gov. Rick Perry, who railed against the Affordable Care Act in his presidential
campaign, remains committed to fighting the law, said Catherine Frazier, a
spokeswoman for Perry.

Perry has criticized President Barack Obama's administration for a law that
Perry says spends excessively and imposes unfunded mandates upon states. Perry
said the federal health care reform law, often referred to by critics as
"Obamacare," will cost Texas taxpayers more than $27 billion over 10 years for
an expansion of Medicaid starting in 2014.

The new law would add 1.2 million people to Medicaid, bringing the total
enrollment to 4.7 million people by 2014, Daniel said. In Texas, there are
currently about 6 million uninsured people in a state with a population of more
than 25 million, but under the new law, that number would fall to 2.3 million
uninsured, state officials said Monday.

The Texas Department of Insurance has been working with the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services to comply with a detailed timetable to enact the law.
One of the main topics at the hearing was a health insurance exchange that is
supposed to be set up by Jan. 1, 2014. The state has opted to allow the federal
government to run it, rather than doing the job itself.

Like the insurance department, state lawmakers have been proceeding as if the
law will not be overturned. Rep. John Smithee, an Amarillo Republican and
chairman of the House insurance committee, said one of his main concerns is the
possibility of getting caught in a situation in which Texans may have their
health insurance compromised if the law goes into effect and the state isn't
ready. For example, some small counties and municipalities have pooled together
for reasonable health insurance rates, but those pools, he said, don't seem to
be supported in the new law.

"We want to make sure health care and health insurance goes on uninterrupted,"
Smithee said.

teaton@statesman.com; 445-3631

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                             407 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
             Property & Casualty/Risk & Benefits Management Edition

                                 July 20, 1998

Clinton Memo Sparks Health Insurer Ire

BYLINE: BY MARY JANE FISHER

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1020 words

DATELINE: Washington


Health insurance industry reaction to President Clinton's Executive Memorandum
issued earlier this month, requiring health insurers to comply with the
Kassebaum-Kennedy law in order to participate in the Federal Employees Health
Benefits Program, ranged from anger to declarations of support for the 1996
bipartisan law.

The Kassebaum-Kennedy law, known as the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act, helps individuals keep their health insurance coverage when
they change jobs, guarantees renewability of coverage and guarantees access to
health insurance for small businesses.

What prompted the executive order were reports that some health insurers are
circumventing Kassebaum-Kennedy protections by giving insurance agents
incentives to avoid enrolling qualified individuals.

The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, the largest health plan in the
FEHBP, issued a statement that it supported HIPAA when the bill was considered
and when it passed into law.  The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Service Benefit
Plan covers 4 million of the 9 million federal employees.

"Compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act is an
issue Blue Cross and Blue Shield takes seriously," BCBSA's Washington office
said.  "'Therefore, the announcement by the president regarding expanded
enforcement of the law will not pose a threat to the Plan's continued
participation in the FEHBP."

On the other end of the spectrum, speaking for the Washington-based Health
Insurance Association of America, Chip Kahn, chief operating officer and HIAA
president-designate, called President Clinton's Executive Memorandum "a
frivolous misuse of his bully pulpit."

"By launching an unsubstantiated attack on the private health insurance industry
purely for political gain, he gives election-year pandering a bad name," Mr.
Kahn charged.  Mr. Kahn was majority staff director of the House Ways and Means
Health Subcommittee until assuming his new post in January.

HIAA and its member companies supported the Kassebaum-Kennedy law, and "we
believe all Americans entitled under the law should be able to get it [health
insurance] without impediment," he added.  Mr. Kahn noted on July 7 that the
Clinton administration could cite no problem with the enforcement of the law.

HIPAA already provides significant enforcement authority for the law to three
cabinet-level agencies -- the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor
and the Treasury, and to the 50 different state insurance commissioners as well,
Mr. Kahn added.

Mr. Kahn went on to note that a General Accounting Office report on HIPAA issued
in March that the president cited in his Executive Memorandum said that 22
states have set up high-risk pools that provide health coverage at reasonably
affordable rates to people with pre-existing conditions leaving group plans.

The GAO report also indicated that state insurance departments have successfully
addressed "a handful" of problems with agents being offered reduced commissions
for providing coverage to people eligible under the Kassebaum-Kennedy law.

The Washington-based National Association of Health Underwriters also responded
negatively to the memorandum.  It asserted in a statement that it takes "great
offense at the President's unsubstantiated charges . . . through these
'McCarthyite' charges, [he] appears to be setting the stage for politicizing the
health care debate for next November's congressional elections."

In his remarks during the memorandum-signing ceremony, the president said that
agents "have reportedly delayed processing applications submitted by
HIPAA-eligible individuals or small groups in order to ensure that applicants
have a sufficient break in coverage to lose eligibility for Kassebaum-Kennedy
protections."

Janet Stokes Trautwein, NAHU's director of federal policy analysis, said: "We
have initiated contact with the Health Care Financing Administration and the
state insurance departments to make sure this type of market manipulation has
not occurred."

She cited a letter NAHU wrote last August, notifying the HCFA that "some
carriers have stated they plan to limit or eliminate agents' commissions and/or
cancel agents' contracts on the carrier's guaranteed block of business, or on
business where loss ratios or surcharges exceed a specified level."

NAHU told HCFA that "most of these carriers only market health insurance through
agents, therefore the elimination of the agent marketing force would have a
dramatic impact on the number of cases in this category they would be required
to underwrite."

Subsequently, HCFA sent a guidance bulletin March 17 to state insurance
commissioners for distribution to insurers in each state.  The bulletin advised
insurers that delaying or denying health care coverage under HIPAA was unlawful
and emphasized the federal government's commitment to enforcement.

"There are still some insurers that are reducing agent commissions in the 2-9
employee market to abnormally low rates -- to as low as 1 percent," Ms.
Trautwein told National Underwriter.

David Lack, president of the Alexandria, Va.-based Council for Affordable Health
Insurance, charge that "issuing a blanket order that any health insurer
violating the requirements of HIPAA be excluded from participating in the FEHBP
is a misguided and Draconian response to a limited problem."

In his memorandum, the president announced that the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners has committed to help identify and report to the Office
of Personnel Management, which administers the FEHBP, any insurers they uncover
that are denying or delaying providing individuals the Kassebaum-Kennedy
protection.

"I am very pleased that the National Association of Insurance Commissioners will
join the Department of Health and Human Services and the Office of Personnel
Management in these efforts," President Clinton said at the White House signing
ceremony of the Executive Memorandum.

"As the primary enforcers of the Kennedy-Kassebaum law, the state commissioners
play a crucial role, and I thank them for their help."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 The National Underwriter Company


                             408 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                  All Editions

LD 1333 and competition

SECTION: Pg. A4

LENGTH: 263 words


Supporters of the latest health insurance bill, LD 1333, claim it brings
competition into the insurance market. This is untrue. They assert their
proposal will allow "market-based solutions" to the so-called problems with
Maine's health insurance industry. There cannot be any market-based solutions,
because federal law exempts health insurance from the anti-trust laws that
protect the very free market these so-called reformers say they want to promote.

Under the McCarran-Ferguson Act, health insurance companies can legally avoid
competition. Ask the American Bar Association. McCarran-Ferguson allows
insurance companies to control the price atwhich they offer policies and to
engage in other anti-competitive practices. Insurers are even allowed to
discriminate based on age.

If Maine eases health insurance regulation, that means it will be easier for
insurance companies to avoid competing. In addition, we will be subsidizing
insurance company profits to pay for insuring people whose coverage is currently
mandated.

The supporters of LD 1333 say Idaho is an example of how to provide health care
coverage.  Idaho has a higher percentage of people without health insurance and
a higher poverty rate. Is that who we want to emulate?

Maine should not adopt legislation that claims to be pro-free market but is
really anti-market, pro-subsidy and copies a state that does a poorer job of
providing health care to its citizens. If legislators believe in a competitive
market for health insurance, then they should first call for the repeal of
McCarran-Ferguson.

Ross Ferrell

Bangor

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Bangor Daily News


                             409 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

HOW GOOD IDEAS LEAD TO GOOD LEGISLATION

BYLINE: Kathleen Vinehout

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 529 words


'How do you know what to put in a bill?" the high school student asked me.
"Listening," I told him. "I get lots of good ideas." A good idea leads to good
legislation.

The holiday season is also the season of preparation for a new legislative
session. Bills can't be introduced until the inauguration of the newly elected
senators, but many in the Capitol are busy doing the homework on legislation.

Sometimes preparation of a new bill is fairly simple. But writing a bill often
involves significant research on the details and on the history of prior
legislation - both success and failure.

For example, a local judge asked me to change one word in the criminal law. The
research provided by the Legislative Council's attorney helped me understand why
the law was written as it was and why changing it was not so simple. The
attorney's research was very valuable in helping me take a good idea and craft
it into language of a new bill.

Good ideas do turn into new laws.

Several years ago I spoke with a man who needed health insurance for his young
adult daughter. His story led to passage of my amendment that allowed parents to
keep their adult children on their insurance until the children reach age 27.

That amendment became law well before the federal law required insurance
companies to allow parents to cover children up to age 26 on their health
insurance. Wisconsin was ahead of the game because a man took the time to call
me.

Many small businesses and farmers contact me regarding the health insurance
exchange. People complain about paying too much for awful coverage. Some want to
start a small business but are afraid to leave a job that provides health
insurance because they worry about finding similar coverage on their own.

People tell me they want the state, not the federal government, to run the
health exchange. People ask me to re-introduce my health insurance exchange
bill, which lays out the details of a well-run, self-supporting health exchange.
In January I will introduce this bill and continue my work to bring affordable
insurance to small business owners.

Last week I spoke with a Jackson County man who built his dream house in the
country. As he put finishing touches on his home, he learned that three of his
four neighbors have contracts with a sand mine company.

He was devastated. He asked if I could draft legislation to require disclosure
of nearby sand mine contracts as a condition of a real estate sale.

Later, I spoke to another man concerned about a subdivision going up a stone's
throw away from an approved, but not yet developed, sand mine. Still another man
said he didn't realize a mine was being built in his neighborhood. Many have
asked me to somehow require that neighbors be made aware earlier in the process
of possible mine construction.

As state money tightens, some local schools were successful in passing a
referendum to exceed the levy limit. But the referendum wording was interpreted
one way by the district and another by the state. The bill I am drafting will
hopefully clear up the confusion - at least for future referendums.

Good ideas lead to good legislation. Now is the season to contact me and share
your good idea.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Kathleen Vinehout is a Democratic state senator from Alma.  «
Sen.Vinehout@legis.wisconsin.gov or 267-2871

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             410 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 27, 2012 Tuesday

Healthcare at the US supreme court - full transcript and selected extracts

BYLINE: Chris McGrealguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 285 words

ABSTRACT

The full transcript from the first day of supreme court hearings on the
constitutionality of Barack Obama's healthcare reforms

FULL TEXT

The full transcript: day 1Historical precedent

Robert Long, the lawyer hired by the court to argue why a 19th century law, the
Anti-Injunction act, means that the supreme court cannot hear the health case
now, opened his case by arguing that the penalty for not taking out health care
insurance is in fact a tax and therefore cannot be subject to a lawsuit until it
is paid. But the first tax penalties under the legislation do not kick in until
2015.

Tax or penalty, 1

Justice Ginsburg made the point to Long that taxes are primarily intended to
raise revenue for the government not, like fines, to punish people. She said
that the wording of the new health care law shows that it is not a revenue
raising measure and therefore the penalty for not buying health insurance is not
a tax.

Tax or penalty, 2

An exchange between the US solicitor general, Donald Verrilli, and Justice
Samuel Alito, also addressed whether the consequences of not buying health
insurance are a tax or a penalty. Alito challenged Verrilli by saying that the
government calls the measure to punish people when they do not take out health
insurance a tax when it suits it and a penalty when it does not.

Tax or penalty, 3

Justice Stephen Bryer took a dig at Verrilli who, while arguing that the
financial punishment for not paying for health insurance is not a tax, kept
calling it a tax.

Consequences

Justice Samuel Alito questioned Verrilli on the consequences of declaring that
the health law is open to immediate challenge over the penalties it imposes.
Won't that lead to a flood of lawsuits, he asked.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             411 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Stillwater NewsPress (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 15, 2011 Saturday

National health care law likely to be overturned, says Oklahoma insurance
commissioner

BYLINE: Silas Allen, Stillwater NewsPress, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


Oct. 15--STILLWATER, Okla. -- Oklahoma Insurance Commissioner John Doak told
Stillwater residents he would like to wait for action by the U.S. Supreme Court
before implementing a health insurance exchange.

Doak spoke at the Stillwater Chamber of Commerce's Friday Forum. Doak said he
expects the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which requires that
states establish health insurance exchanges by January 2014, will be overturned
by the court.

Any states that have not established such exchanges by the deadline will be
subject to a federal health insurance exchange.

Although Doak said he disagrees with the policy itself, he acknowledged that he
would be obligated to uphold it unless it is overturned.

"Sometimes you're in a position where you have to regulate something you don't
like," he said. "But it's the law."

An audience member at the forum expressed concern that no obvious efforts are
under way in Oklahoma to implement a healthcare exchange program such as the one
mandated in the act.

Rick Farmer, Oklahoma Insurance Department assistant commissioner of government
affairs, public policy and communications, said a joint committee has met in the
Oklahoma Legislature to come up with a plan for how to respond to the policy.

Up to now, he said, there has been little political will on the state level to
touch the issue at all. Any solutions that might be reached by the joint
committee are unclear, he said.

"What the outcome of that is going to be, I think, is anybody's guess at this
point," he said.

What's clear, Doak said, is that, if the law isn't overturned, Oklahoma will
have to respond. It's important that the state's response be developed by
Oklahomans and not at the federal level, he said.

Earlier this year, Gov. Mary Fallin announced she would be turning down a $54
million federal grant to create such an insurance exchange, opting instead to
pay for the program with state and private dollars.

Doak said he thinks Fallin made the right decision. Although some are concerned
about the state's ability to implement such an exchange before the 2014
deadline, Doak said the private sector in Oklahoma is already strategically
poised to create the program relatively quickly -- for much less than the $54
million offered by the federal government.

___ (c)2011 the Stillwater NewsPress (Stillwater, Okla.) Visit the Stillwater
NewsPress (Stillwater, Okla.) at www.stillwater-newspress.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111015-OV-National-health-care-law
-likely-to-be-overturned-says-Oklahoma-insurance-commissioner-1015-20111015

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OV


                      Copyright 2011 Stillwater NewsPress


                             412 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   JANUARY 1, 2005 Saturday ST. PAUL EDITION

HEALTH COVERAGE EASED
ADMINISTRATION ISSUES RULE TO HELP WORKERS WHO LOSE OR CHANGE JOBS

BYLINE: JOHN HEILPRINAssociated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 427 words


WASHINGTON -- For U.S. workers who change or lose their jobs, a new rule issued
by the Bush administration just before the end of 2004 could provide better
access to group health plan coverage -- in keeping with changes Congress agreed
to eight years ago.

The new rule, which becomes effective for health care plans starting July 1, is
meant to implement more of the 1996 Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act by making it easier to obtain group health coverage.

It limits when pre-existing medical conditions can be excluded from coverage and
requires group health plans and group health insurance issuers to offer "special
enrollment" in certain cases.

The law, pushed through Congress by President Bill Clinton, was intended to
guarantee access to health insurance for small businesses with 50 or fewer
employees, and to require that insurers renew coverage for a person or group
regardless of the health status of any member of the group.

"In an era when American workers often change jobs, and even careers, several
times in the course of their lives, it is important that they are able to
respond to the modern workplace without having to fear for their health
insurance," Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson said this week.

Three federal agencies jointly issued the new rule based on the 1996 law. Bush
administration officials said their rule "does not significantly modify the
framework" the Clinton administration issued in April 1997 for implementing this
part of the law.

Yet it took another 7 1/2 years for the rule to be made final.

"We have listened to public comment and worked to craft a rule that will provide
maximum protection for consumers, while minimizing the burden on health plans,"
said Medicare chief Mark McClellan.

When Clinton signed the law, his administration said it would affect about one
in 10 U.S. workers -- then an estimated 25 million Americans -- and their
families. Those were workers switching jobs, self-employed or with pre-existing
medical conditions. The law was sponsored by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and
former Kansas Republican Sen. Nancy Kassebaum Baker.

The Bush administration changed the health insurance rule "to bolster ...
consumer protections while minimizing the burdens imposed on group health plans
and group health insurance issuers," Thompson's agency said in a statement.

Among other things, those changes would require group health plans and group
health insurance issuers to give workers a statement about their rights under
the law.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             413 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 11, 1990, Sunday, City Edition

Medicare is now back to square one

BYLINE: HARVEY GARDNER

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; SOCIAL SECURITY; Pg. 8F

LENGTH: 345 words



The Medicare law has changed. Catastrophic Health insurance for    Medicare
enrollees ended on Jan. 1. But these enrollees still are    covered by regular
Medicare.

     Medicare will pay hospital and doctor bills just as it did before
Medicare Catastrophic Health insurance began.

     Participants will no longer have to pay extra for Catastrophic    Health
insurance. The basic monthly premium for Medicare medical    insurance (Part B)
will be $ 28.60 for 1990. No one will have to pay the    income tax based
premium (the "surtax"). But refunds may be months    away.

     One procedure that will no longer be covered is mammography    screening.
An answer I gave in a column Dec. 24 incorrectly reported    that this medical
procedure would continue to be part of the coverage.

 That was true - until Congress voted in November to change the law.

     Participants recently received a notice from Social Security about    how
much money would be taken from their Social Security payment each    month to
pay for Medicare medical insurance.

     This notice was prepared before the new law was passed. So, some of    the
information is not correct. The basic monthly premium for Medicare    Medical
insurance is $ 28.60 for 1990.

     It may take several months to correct your Social Security payment    to
reflect the new lower premium. But, any money collected or withheld    from
Social Security payments for catastrophic health insurance in 1990    will be
sent to participants. Refunds will be sent automatically.

     Those with other health insurance besides Medicare (Medigap    insurance),
should be receiving information for their insurers telling    about changes in
benefits or premiums.

 Questions can be mailed to: Harvey Gardner c/o the St. Petersburg

 Times, 9380 Sunrise Lakes Blvd., Sunrise, Fla. 33322. Matters of    general
interest will be answered in this column.



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                             414 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mandatory Health Insurance

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 414 words


The federal government has done such a miserable job of providing health
insurance for the 46 million Americans who lack it that states around the
country have been forced to step in with their own plans. The latest and boldest
effort was signed into law this week in Massachusetts. It is a carefully crafted
plan with elements that could serve as a model for elsewhere, provided
Massachusetts finds sufficient funds to make it all work.

The cornerstone of the program is a requirement that everyone have a health
insurance policy or pay a financial penalty. States have long required drivers
to carry liability insurance, but this is the first time any state has imposed a
health insurance mandate.

The move is already raising hackles among libertarians, who consider it an
unwarranted government intrusion into decisions that should be personal. But the
truth is, very few of the uninsured go entirely without medical care. When they
get sick, they typically show up at emergency rooms, where they get very
expensive care without paying.

By forcing all residents to assume responsibility for their own health coverage,
Massachusetts should largely solve this ''free rider'' problem and tilt
treatments back toward routine and preventive care and away from emergency care.

Of course, requiring people to get coverage doesn't mean much if they can't
afford to buy it, so Massachusetts has come up with creative measures to make
insurance accessible. There will be subsidies for low-income people. Insurers
will be allowed to offer cheaper policies with fewer prescribed benefits for
young adults. An innovative ''connector'' organization will serve as a
marketplace where people can buy portable insurance with pretax dollars. Small
employers can in essence designate the connector as their group health plan,
easing their burden. The state's Medicaid enrollment will also be expanded.

The Massachusetts plan has unusually strong bipartisan support and includes
elements drawn from both liberal and conservative playbooks. Although Mitt
Romney, the Republican governor, has vetoed several elements of the plan,
including a fee on businesses that refuse to participate, he is almost certain
to be overridden by the overwhelmingly Democratic legislature.

Lots of details must still be worked out, and there are already concerns that
the financial underpinnings of the plan are shaky. But Massachusetts deserves
credit for tackling a problem that Washington is failing to address.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             415 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              June 21, 2013 Friday

State's challenge to federal health care law to go before judge

LENGTH: 666  words


Oklahoma's challenge to the implementation of the Affordable Care Act -
"Obamacare" - will be argued before a federal district judge Thursday.
In 2011, Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt filed the case in Eastern
District U.S. Court for Oklahoma two weeks after taking office.


Initially, the case challenged the federal health care law along lines similar
to those pursued by other states, arguing that the law's individual mandate was
unconstitutional.
That argument was buoyed by state voters, who had approved State Question 756 in
the same election that took Pruitt into office. That measure rewrote the state
Constitution to prohibit enforcement of health system mandates in the state.
The Pruitt case sat idle for months as other state challenges to the federal law
progressed. When the U.S. Supreme Court ruled last June that the Affordable Care
Act, including the individual mandate, was largely constitutional, the Oklahoma
case was essentially undercut.
But in September, Pruitt revived his litigation, picking up arguments initially
proposed by conservative think tanks.
In his revised complaint, Pruitt pointed out that the Affordable Care Act
specified that federal subsidies for people purchasing health insurance could
only be distributed through state health insurance exchanges.
Oklahoma and 26 other states have decided not to build health insurance
exchanges.
Federal attorneys argue that there is no essential difference between a
state-built exchange and a federally facilitated exchange, which will serve
Oklahomans because of the state's decision.
But Pruitt's case argues that the law specifies the subsidies can only come
through state exchanges, and federal officials can't rewrite the law's language
after it has been approved by Congress.
If U.S. District Judge Ronald White agrees with Pruitt's argument, it would mean
thousands of uninsured Oklahomans would be unable to get federal assistance for
their health insurance costs.
Such a decision would also block the IRS from enforcing tax penalties against
large employers who do not offer qualifying health care coverage to their
workers.
Those penalties are triggered when an employee receives a federal subsidy
through an exchange.
If insurance subsidies and tax penalties for noncompliant employers are blocked,
the Affordable Care Act's consumer impact on middle-class Oklahomans would
essentially be nullified in Oklahoma - and potentially in other states that
haven't agreed to build exchanges.

In May, a similar lawsuit was filed in a Washington federal court on behalf of
businesses and individuals in six states that are not building insurance
exchanges. Some of the litigants in that case say they do not plan to offer
insurance to their employees or will not offer insurance that will comply with
the law's mandates.
Thursday's oral arguments will concern a motion by Department of Justice
attorneys to dismiss Pruitt's case.
The Department of Justice has argued Oklahoma's case was inappropriately filed
before any tax penalties were levied.
They also have argued that the state of Oklahoma is unlikely to ever face tax
penalties because it provides its employees with insurance likely to comply with
the federal law's standards.
Oklahoma Solicitor General Patrick Wyrick is expected to argue Pruitt's case
before White.
The federal case will be made by Department of Justice Senior Trial Counsel Joel
McElvain.What is a health insurance exchangeA health insurance exchange is
essentially an electronic marketplace for buying and selling health care
coverage.
On a computer site, consumers would be able to compare and purchase various
insurance plans.
Oklahomans who earn between 100 percent and 400 percent of the federal poverty
level would be eligible to take advantage of federal subsidies for health
insurance cost.
The federal poverty level is currently $23,550 for a family of four.
Oklahoma and 26 other states have refused to build exchanges compliant with
Affordable Care Act stipulations.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             416 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday

Offenders urged to renew health insurance

BYLINE: Samir Salama

LENGTH: 272 words


Abu Dhabi Health officials are urging the hundreds who have not renewed their
National Health Insurance Company (Daman) policy, to do so by  July 27.

"Insurance offenders who failed to obtain or renew their National Health
Insurance Company (Daman) health policy on time can do so within the grace
period ending on July 27," said Dr Jamal Mohammad Al Kaabi, head of customer
service and corporate communication department at the Health Authority Abu Dhabi
(HAAD). Dr Al Kaabi estimated that hundreds of Daman policyholders had failed to
renew their insurance -- which is required by law -- by the due date.

President His Highness Shaikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan on Sunday ordered the
exemption of fines for Daman health insurance offenders. Dr Al Kaabi said the
President's instructions, meant to ease renewal procedures of Daman health
cards, would cover insurance offenders from March 1 last year to July 27.

"Shaikh Khalifa's gesture came after service centres witnessed an overwhelming
rush from cardholders to renew their cards and avoid fines imposed by HAAD as of
March last year," he said.

"The order eases the accumulated financial burdens of hundreds of the Daman
policyholders who were unable to renew their policies," he said. Under the
health insurance law, the sponsor or employer must provide health insurance for
all workers and their families including his wife and three children under 18.
Every sponsor must subscribe to the scheme for any person under his sponsorship
from the date of his arrival to the country, unless they are entitled to health
insurance from an employer.

call

For more information phone 800 800.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2010 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             417 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              Yellow Sheet Report

                            March 22, 2017 Wednesday

House Passes Bipartisan Gosar Bill Restoring Competition in the Healthcare
Market

BYLINE: Jeremy Duda

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 642  words


WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, U.S. Congressman Paul A. Gosar, D.D.S. (AZ-04) released
the following statement after the House voted 416-7 in favor of legislation he
sponsored H.R. 372, the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017, a bill
that would amend the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945 to restore the application of
federal anti-trust laws to the business of health insurance:

"Today, an overwhelming bipartisan majority in the House joined me in taking a
historic step to begin rebuilding America's healthcare market. As a dentist for
over 25 years, I know first-hand that restoring the application of federal
antitrust laws to the business of health insurance is the key to unlocking
greater competition in the marketplace. Making health insurance companies
compete in a free-market will result in huge benefits for hospitals, doctors and
most importantly, patients. History has always shown us that when we put the
patient first and demand that health insurance companies compete for their
business, premiums go down while quality goes up. I'm proud to have led this
effort in the House and call on Senate leaders to take up this bipartisan
legislation in a timely matter."

"There are very few antitrust exemptions in this country, and for good reason.
For decades, insurance companies have lived under a different set of rules than
everyone else, and today the House has voted to bring health insurers back under
the umbrella of our federal antitrust laws,"saidRep. Austin Scott (GA-08)."While
this is not an end-all be-all to fixing our broken health care system, I
strongly believe this piece of legislation is a big step forward in untangling
the mess our health insurance marketplace has become and fulfilling our promise
to create a marketplace that works for all Americans. "

"The House today took an important step in ensuring robust competition among
health insurance plans," saidAmerican Dental Association President Gary Roberts.
"Free market competition leads to lower costs, greater innovation and variety in
the insurance marketplace. I have long appreciated Paul Gosar for his steadfast
commitment to patient advocacy, and I thank him for his work on reforming the
McCarran-Ferguson Act. Further, I want to thank every one of the 416 members of
Congress who voted for H.R. 372 today."

Background:

The full text of the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017 can be
foundHERE.

Original Cosponsors (14): Brian Babin, D.D.S.; Dave Brat; Mo Brooks; Scott
DesJarlais, M.D.; John Duncan; Walter B. Jones; Drew Ferguson, D.D.S.; Louie
Gohmert; Steve King, Phil Roe, M.D.; Austin Scott; Lamar Smith; Robert Wittman;
Ted Yoho.

The Congressman's legislation is endorsed by: American Dental Association,
American Optometric Association and American Association of Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgeons.

The White House has released an official statement in support of The Competitive
Health Insurance Reform ActHERE.

The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017 amends a section of the
McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945, which exempted the insurance industry from the
Sherman Act and the Clayton Act - acts that have the purpose of ensuring fair
competition. This broad exemption was intended to assist newly established
insurance companies set sustainable premiums by permitting data sharing between
insurance companies. These antiquated exemptions are no longer necessary. There
is no reason in law, policy, or logic for the insurance industry to have special
exemptions that are different fromallother businesses in the United States.

Repeal of the specific sections of the McCarran-Ferguson Act which apply to
health insurance has bipartisan support. A form of this legislation passed the
Democratic-controlled House during the 111th Congress 406 - 19 (Roll no. 64) and
passed the Republican-led House in the 112th Congress by a voice vote.

###

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             418 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                            January 2, 2012, Monday

Health law befuddles officials;
Federal government has done little to clear up insurance benefits confusion

BYLINE: RIVARD, DAILY MAIL CAPITOL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 680 words


State officials are still unsure what they must do to comply with a key
provision of the national health care reform law following new but seemingly
inconclusive guidance from the federal government.

If the U.S. Supreme Court doesn't strike the 2009 health care reform law down
later this summer, the bulk of the law's provisions go into effect in 2014,
though detailed plans need to be ready sooner. Right now, officials aren't even
sure how many West Virginians the new law will end up providing insurance for.

The law is designed to provide millions of middle class and low-income Americans
with government-subsidized insurance.

To do that, it does two major things.

First, it expands the state Medicaid program - which provides free health
insurance for the poor - to include people in households making 133 percent of
the poverty level, which is about $29,300 a year for a family of four. Officials
estimate that will add 130,000 West Virginians to the state Medicaid rolls.

The federal government will also be giving subsidies in the form of tax credits
to help the middle class buy individual or small-market insurance plans. West
Virginians will shop for these plans in a health insurance exchange, which is
basically a government-created marketplace for private insurance. Officials
estimate that program will mean subsidies for 178,000 West Virginians.

One of the key things private insurance companies, state insurance regulators
and other officials need to know is what level of insurance needs to be offered
to newly insured people. The federal government doesn't want to be paying for
bare bones or unhelpful insurance coverage, so it's requiring people to receive
"essential health benefits" from their insurance provider.

But what are "essential health benefits?" Nobody really knows for sure and the
federal government has, so far, done little to clear things up.

State officials here had expected the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services to tell them last year what benefits need to be in these plans.
Instead, the department issued a short, inconclusive bulletin two weeks ago.

The department said states should look at other insurance plans in their state
and then use those as a benchmark for what benefits needed to be offered, while
also making sure plans comply with a 10-part federal standard.

The federal department touted its approach as giving more flexibility to states.

"This approach would give states the flexibility to select a plan that would
best meet the needs of their citizens," the department said in a press release
announcing its plan.

But the federal government's decision not to say exactly what states need to
require is "a pretty big shift," said Jeremiah Samples, an official with the
West Virginia Offices of the Insurance Commissioner, which regulates the private
insurance market.

"What was anticipated by really everyone nationally was that HHS was going to
develop a benchmark for the entire country," Samples said. "What they have
instead done through this bulletin is defer it back to the states through these
parameters."

That leaves key questions that need to be answered by both the Offices of the
Insurance Commissioner and by the state Department of Health and Human
Resources, which manages the Medicaid program.

"To say the least, there are a lot of outstanding questions that still remain,"
Samples said.

A spokeswoman for the state DHHR said officials there also were uncertain what
essential benefits the Medicaid program would have to offer.

Private insurance companies that will be getting new business from the newly
subsidized customers also don't know what benefits they will have to offer
through the exchange starting in fall 2013.

Insurance Commissioner Michael Riley said officials had already spotted one new
benefit private insurers will have to start offering: most small group plans in
the state don't normally offer pediatric dental coverage, which is one of the
things the federal guidance appears to require.

Contact writer Ry Rivard at ry.rivard@dailymail.com or 304-348-1796. Follow him
at www.twitter.com/ryrivard.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Charleston Newspapers


                             419 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                            January 2, 2012, Monday

Health law befuddles officials;
Federal government has done little to clear up insurance benefits confusion

BYLINE: RIVARD, DAILY MAIL CAPITOL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 680 words


State officials are still unsure what they must do to comply with a key
provision of the national health care reform law following new but seemingly
inconclusive guidance from the federal government.

If the U.S. Supreme Court doesn't strike the 2009 health care reform law down
later this summer, the bulk of the law's provisions go into effect in 2014,
though detailed plans need to be ready sooner. Right now, officials aren't even
sure how many West Virginians the new law will end up providing insurance for.

The law is designed to provide millions of middle class and low-income Americans
with government-subsidized insurance.

To do that, it does two major things.

First, it expands the state Medicaid program - which provides free health
insurance for the poor - to include people in households making 133 percent of
the poverty level, which is about $29,300 a year for a family of four. Officials
estimate that will add 130,000 West Virginians to the state Medicaid rolls.

The federal government will also be giving subsidies in the form of tax credits
to help the middle class buy individual or small-market insurance plans. West
Virginians will shop for these plans in a health insurance exchange, which is
basically a government-created marketplace for private insurance. Officials
estimate that program will mean subsidies for 178,000 West Virginians.

One of the key things private insurance companies, state insurance regulators
and other officials need to know is what level of insurance needs to be offered
to newly insured people. The federal government doesn't want to be paying for
bare bones or unhelpful insurance coverage, so it's requiring people to receive
"essential health benefits" from their insurance provider.

But what are "essential health benefits?" Nobody really knows for sure and the
federal government has, so far, done little to clear things up.

State officials here had expected the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services to tell them last year what benefits need to be in these plans.
Instead, the department issued a short, inconclusive bulletin two weeks ago.

The department said states should look at other insurance plans in their state
and then use those as a benchmark for what benefits needed to be offered, while
also making sure plans comply with a 10-part federal standard.

The federal department touted its approach as giving more flexibility to states.

"This approach would give states the flexibility to select a plan that would
best meet the needs of their citizens," the department said in a press release
announcing its plan.

But the federal government's decision not to say exactly what states need to
require is "a pretty big shift," said Jeremiah Samples, an official with the
West Virginia Offices of the Insurance Commissioner, which regulates the private
insurance market.

"What was anticipated by really everyone nationally was that HHS was going to
develop a benchmark for the entire country," Samples said. "What they have
instead done through this bulletin is defer it back to the states through these
parameters."

That leaves key questions that need to be answered by both the Offices of the
Insurance Commissioner and by the state Department of Health and Human
Resources, which manages the Medicaid program.

"To say the least, there are a lot of outstanding questions that still remain,"
Samples said.

A spokeswoman for the state DHHR said officials there also were uncertain what
essential benefits the Medicaid program would have to offer.

Private insurance companies that will be getting new business from the newly
subsidized customers also don't know what benefits they will have to offer
through the exchange starting in fall 2013.

Insurance Commissioner Michael Riley said officials had already spotted one new
benefit private insurers will have to start offering: most small group plans in
the state don't normally offer pediatric dental coverage, which is one of the
things the federal guidance appears to require.

Contact writer Ry Rivard at ry.rivard@dailymail.com or 304-348-1796. Follow him
at www.twitter.com/ryrivard.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Charleston Newspapers


                             420 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 28, 1996, Sunday, Final Edition

Kennedy-Kassebaum and the Law of Unintended Consequences

David S. Broder

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 775 words


The 100 to zero margin by which the Senate passed a health insurance reform
measure last week is proof that one of the great lessons of President Clinton's
failed epic battle to enact much more ambitious change has been learned. The
president and legislators in both parties came away from that struggle convinced
that progress could be made only in small steps.

But while that wisdom has now been applied, there is reason to believe that the
Senate bill, officially designated as the Health Insurance Reform Act of 1996,
would if enacted also come to be known as the latest version of that legislative
perennial, the Law of Unintended Consequences.

The measure, crafted by Sens. Nancy Kassebaum (R-Kan.) and Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.), is still a long way from becoming law. A House version, approved
earlier this year, includes several controversial add-ons, notably the option
for "medical savings accounts," a kind of health care IRA, which was rejected on
the Senate side.

Kassebaum told me that she expects tough negotiations in the Senate-House
conference. Her Kansas colleague, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, threatens to
make them even more difficult by stacking the list of conferees with senators
who would join him in fighting for the medical savings accounts, a "killer
amendment" that would draw a veto from Clinton.

Essentially, both House and Senate bills would make it easier for people who
change jobs to keep their health insurance and make it harder for insurance
companies to deny coverage to people who already have health problems. The
General Accounting Office estimates that these "portabili ty" and "preexisting
conditions" guarantees would mean that as many as 21 million people now locked
out of the health insurance market would become insurable.

But substantial questions also have been raised about the long-term consequences
of these two widely praised provisions. Requiring insurance companies to insure
people who are known to have medical problems will, everyone agrees, raise the
costs of insurance.

The Health Insurance Association of America -- the outfit that helped defeat the
Clinton plan with its "Harry and Louise" TV ads -- argues that it would boost
premiums 10 percent each year for the first few years it was in effect. Healthy
people, angered by or unable to pay the rising cost of their insurance, could
well cancel their coverage, further escalating the rates for those who remain.

Kassebaum and Kennedy cite three independent actuarial studies that estimate
premium increases would be much lower -- in the 2 or 3 percent annual range.
Much of the difference depends on the assumption one makes about the rates state
regulators will allow insurers to charge individuals with bad health histories.
The higher those rates for the beneficiaries of the Kassebaum-Kennedy bill, the
less the impact on the general population.

But of course, giving the sickly a "right" to buy insurance and then pricing it
out of reach, with premiums much higher than others pay, is a hollow victory.
Kassebaum and Kennedy avoided any price controls on premiums (such as the old
Clinton plan included) in order to make the measure more palatable to the
insurance industry, parts of which endorsed their plan.

But the "Harry and Louise" folks are not alone in thinking that before long,
insurance rates would rise enough to provoke a public demand for government
controls. Although the Clinton administration supports the Kassebaum-Kennedy
bill, some of its health care policy experts privately agree that the measure as
it stands would create "significant instability" in the insurance market -- and
a need for new regulation.

Kassebaum told me she believes state insurance regulators will be able to make
the necessary adjustments. "That's why we gave the states so much flexibility,"
she said. "A number of us thought that capping premiums would be a good idea,
but we chose not to do it and instead let the states decide how to handle that
problem."

But she also acknowledged that there could be trouble down the road. "You do
what you can," she said, "and if problems develop, you deal with them."

Nick Littlefield, a key aide to Kennedy, while disputing the high estimates of
premium increases, said, "It may be that ultimately the effect of our bill is to
lead the government to take further steps to increase coverage and control costs
of health care. My boss still wants universal coverage with cost containment, so
from his point of view, the foot in the door is a good thing."

Good thing or bad, this bill would have consequences that go well beyond its
surface appeal.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                             421 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           November 4, 1993, Thursday

BUSINESS PRESS

BYLINE: By Jim King

SECTION: BUSINESS; Section C; Page 3

LENGTH: 479 words


Global-minded GE 'to go where the growth is'

General Electric never has been a truly global company, but rather a U.S.
company operating internationally. However, the cover story in the Nov. 8 issue
of BusinessWeek ($ 2.75) indicates that may change soon.

The story says the company's executives are "betting on the three developing
giants - China, India and Mexico - with Southeast Asia close behind."

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John F. Welch Jr. tells the magazine that
these markets - despite their political and economic risks - need just the mix
of capital and technology that GE can bring.

"We're a company with great infrastructure strengths and, therefore, a company
that ought to go where the growth is. It's clear to anyone that growth will be
in the Pacific Rim, India and Mexico," he said.

While the strategy may be welcome news to GE shareholders, others are less than
thrilled. The president of the International Union of Electrical Workers argues
that U.S. laws should prohibit international growth that takes American jobs
overseas.

Health insurance worries

Increased competition, higher taxes and runaway expenses almost surely are near
the top of most companies' lists of worries. But according to this month's
Financial World magazine ($ 3.95), the biggest concern of corporate executives
is health care reform.

"The stakes for business are hard to exaggerate," the magazine says. "At the
macroeconomic level alone, medical care commands 14 percent of the nation's
gross domestic product. Without reform, it could top 19 percent by the end of
the decade."

Although the Clinton reform bill is expected to be overhauled in Congress, the
power of the "business community" in lobbying for health care reform may be
modest. That's because there is little uniformity in their concerns.

Companies already providing health insurance are far less likely to be vocal in
their concerns about mandatory coverage than those that don't. And size, more
than anything, is the determinant of that. Financial World reports that 98
percent of companies with 100 or more employees provide insurance. But only 27
percent of companies with fewer than 10 employees have medical insurance plans.

The problem is that there are some 3.5 million firms with fewer than 10
employees.

Pay for performance

While it's hard for many average workers to understand how a man earning $ 2.8
million a year can be considered underpaid, that's the finding of a report in
the Nov. 1 issue of The New York Observer.

The newspaper said Home Depot's Bernard Marcus, who was paid $ 2.8 million last
year, should have earned upward of $ 17 million. Ted Turner, whose pay was $ 1.1
million last year, should have earned $ 3.5 million.

The calculation was based on a formula the newspaper called the Performance
I.Q., which concentrated mostly on shareholder return.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH933100312

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                             422 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Mirror (Pahrump, Nevada)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               September 12, 2013

Obamacare laws go quickly into effect

BYLINE: The Mirror staff

LENGTH: 741  words


In the first of what is expected to be many meetings, workshops and information
sessions, the Silver State Health Insurance Exchange (SSHIE) held a town hall
meeting to discuss concerns from local residents and business owners on Monday,
September 9. The meeting introduced the state's health insurance exchange as
part of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) passed in 2010. The law requires that
every American have health insurance with penalties for those who do not and tax
credits for individuals who do. The meeting was held in the Nye County
Commissioners' Chambers by Nye County Regional Economic Development Authority
and conducted by SSHIE Director Jon Hager. More than 20 residents and one small
business owner participated.

According to Hager, three different health insurance companies have opted to
participate in the exchange, Health Plan of Nevada, Nevada Health Co-Op and
Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield. To handle both the applications and to calculate
the plan available for each individual, SSHIE launched the website Nevada Health
Link. The website will serve as an online marketplace for insurance. For people
who do not have access to the Internet, health insurance brokers and navigators
will be on hand October 1 to assist individuals and businesses with signing up
for a plan. A call center has also been established to help individuals navigate
the website or find. a local insurance broker. If a person does not earn enough
to afford insurance, the website will inform them that they qualify for state
provided Medicaid, with an application following in the mail. "A new thing that
the state-based exchanges are going to administer is something called an
Advanced Premium Tax Credit," Hager said. "I assume everybody here has heard of
healthcare reform, ACA. You've heard of it under Obamacare? The act was signed
in 2010, it creates a tax penalty if you don't purchase insurance and a tax
credit if you do purchase insurance. So, kind of the carrot and stick approach
and before I continue, I'd like to offer up that I am a state government
bureaucrat implementing a federal law. I have no say over the federal law
itself," he explained.

"Basically what it says is if you don't offer coverage, the employer will pay
$2,000 per employee for not having coverage," Hager stated of the insurance
requirement. "Say you're an employer with 100 employees, that's $2,000 per
employee for not providing insurance, so you can imagine why the groups like the
fast food industry are really concerned about this, the hospitality industry.
Those organizations that provide low wage, no benefit jobs are concerned," he
added.

"If you are a new employer that has fewer than 25 full time employees, and the
employer covers at least 50 percent of the employees' cost of coverage and their
average wages are less than $50,000 per year, they can get a tax credit to help
them pay for that coverage," Hager stated.

"If my employer offers insurance, do I have a choice, do I have to take their
insurance, I would be able to get this one but I wouldn't get the tax credit,
correct? I would have to go with my employer," one woman asked. Hager responded
that she was correct unless the health insurance offered was considered
unaffordable. The woman pressed further, asking, "If it's considered
unaffordable and I choose to go with the exchange, then my employer would get
into trouble?" Hager explained that if the employer's insurance was considered
unaffordable, they would face a penalty of $3,000 per employee.

The open enrollment period begins October 1 and has been extended to March 31,
2014 allowing a full six months, so that as many people as possible can sign up
for insurance. At the same time, certain parts of the healthcare law have been
delayed, with the small business requirement being put off for a year before
penalties would be levied.

"We are trying to make this work for Nevada the best way we can," Hager added,
reporting that the state had wanted to control its own decisions and had opted
to manage the exchange instead of allowing the federal government to setup a
federal exchange. "Love the law or hate the law, it is the law. So we want to
make sure Nevadans are best prepared," Hager said.

For more information, call (855) 768-5465 or ne-vadahealthlink.com

Contact author Genesee Martin by emailing genny.themirror@gmail.com

"...I'd like to offer up that I am a state government bureaucrat implementing a
federal law."

Jon Hager

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Local Government

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PAH

                      Copyright 2013 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                  Copyright 2013 The Mirror (Pahrump, Nevada)


                             423 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday

Health care is at the core of societal wellness

BYLINE: Gulf News

LENGTH: 357 words


For any country to prosper, one of the most important requirements is a strong
health care policy. With its innate function of enhancing an individual's
well-being, health care takes its place at the core of societal wellness.

Dubai's new health insurance law, announced on Tuesday, finds perfect resonance
with this principle. By making health insurance compulsory for every resident of
the emirate - national as well as expatriate - no matter his job description and
status, the Dubai Health Authority (DHA) has reinforced the foundation of basic
health care for all and also reached out to those who previously were not
beneficiaries of coverage. The most laudatory aspect of this law is that it
makes it mandatory for all employers in Dubai to provide insurance coverage for
their workforce, a fact that highlights the DHA's deep commitment to public
welfare. Many companies in Dubai do not provide their employees health insurance
and this places a multi-faceted burden on the individual in terms of financial
and psychological costs.

This has a negative impact in terms of an individual delaying treatment as he
waits to return to his native country for medical attention, a disturbing trend
that now, fortunately, acquires an expiry date. In explaining the law on health
insurance, the authorities also allayed the predictable fears of the public
regarding the fallout of the extra costs to be borne by companies.

The cost, they stressed, would not in any way impact upon the salary of
employees and companies that flouted the law would be strictly dealt with. This,
understandably, will comfort many expatriates, particularly those whose salary
is not in big numbers.

The other key aspect of the law is that it ensures that dependants of individual
sponsors are also now covered by health insurance, the cost of which will be
borne by the individual sponsor.

A nuclear family unit's wellbeing lies at the core of society's progress. By
paying attention to the micro aspect of health care, Dubai has ensured that its
macro view of health care is guaranteed to be infused with vigour.

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© Al Nisr Publishing LLC 2013.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2013 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             424 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             Employee Benefit News

                                    May 2011

Student health coverage does not escape legislation's reach

BYLINE: Kate Bongiovanni

SECTION: LAW & REGS; Pg. 50 Vol. 25 No. 6

LENGTH: 992  words


In February, the Health and Human Services Department issued proposed
regulations addressing the impact of health care reform on student health
insurance coverage. The proposed regulations classify student health insurance
coverage as a type of "individual health insurance coverage."

As such, student health insurance plans will be subject to several of the most
significant provisions under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and
the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010.

According to the preamble of the proposed regulations, the Government
Accountability Office has estimated that most students enrolled in U.S. colleges
and universities have health coverage through employer-sponsored group health
plans. According to the GAO, in 2006, approximately 7% of students between the
ages of 18 and 23 - approximately 610,000 individuals - were covered through
other private health insurance, such as student health insurance. The health
care industry, however, has estimated the number of individuals with student
health insurance coverage to be significantly higher, at 1.1 million to 1.5
million individuals. According to industry sources, 1,500 to 2,000 institutions
of higher education offer student health coverage, and the vast majority of such
coverage is fully insured.

The proposed regulations define "student health insurance coverage" as a type of
individual health insurance coverage provided pursuant to a written agreement
between an institution of higher education and a health insurance issuer (e.g.,
a master insurance policy between the college or university and an insurer),
which is provided to students who are enrolled in that institution and their
dependents. The proposed regulations do not apply to self-funded student health
plans.

The proposed regulations require that student health insurance coverage be
available only to students enrolled at the institution of higher education and
their dependents. Such coverage is required to satisfy any additional
requirements that may be imposed under state law. In addition, eligibility for
student health insurance coverage cannot be conditioned on any health
status-related factor (e.g., medical condition - including both physical and
mental illnesses - claims experience, receipt of health care, medical history,
genetic information, evidence of insurability or disability).

Because student health insurance coverage is considered a type of individual
health insurance coverage under the proposed regulations, most of the
significant provisions of health care reform will be applicable to such
coverage. For instance, student health insurance plans, like employer-sponsored
group health plans, are not permitted to rescind a participant's coverage except
in the case of fraud or intentional misrepresentation of a material fact.

In addition, student health insurance plans are required to cover preventative
services without participant cost-sharing requirements, and are required to
extend health coverage to dependents up to age 26. Student health insurance
plans are also prohibited from imposing pre-existing condition exclusions on
enrollees who are under age 19, and are subject to the new claims and appeals
procedures under health care reform.

Student health insurance plans are subject to a special transition period under
the proposed regulations with regard to health care reform's annual limit rules.
Specifically, under the proposed regulations, for policy years beginning on or
after Jan. 1, 2012, but before Sept. 23, 2012, a student health insurance plan
may not impose an annual dollar limit on "essential health benefits" (e.g.,
emergency services, maternity and newborn care, and pediatric services) that is
lower than $100,000. (This is significantly lower than the $1.25 million
threshold applicable to employer-sponsored group health plans.) For policy years
beginning on or after Sept. 23, 2012, but before Jan. 1, 2014, a student health
insurance plan may not impose an annual dollar limit on essential health
benefits that is lower than $2 million.

According to the proposed regulations, student health insurance coverage is
exempt from the guaranteed availability and guaranteed renewability requirements
under health care reform. That is, student health insurance plans are not
required to offer coverage to certain eligible individuals, nor are such plans
required to permit individuals to renew or continue their coverage from year to
year.

The proposed regulations require health insurance issuers providing student
health insurance coverage to include a statement in written plan materials
notifying students that the policy may not meet all of the requirements under
health care reform. HHS provides model language for this notice in the proposed
regulations.

As a reminder, effective for plan years beginning on or after Sept. 23, 2010,
group health plans and insurers are required to extend dependent health coverage
to adult children up to age 26. Therefore, many college and university students
will likely remain covered under their parents' health plans, rather than
purchase their own student health insurance coverage.

The proposed regulations are intended to ensure that students who buy insurance
through their college or university will be given many of the same rights and
protections as other Americans under health care reform.

The proposed regulations are effective for policy years beginning on or after
Jan. 1, 2012. Therefore, if a student health insurance policy renews on August 1
of each year, the proposed regulations would become applicable to such policy on
Aug. 1, 2012.

Contributing Editor Kate Bongiovanni is an associate in the tax section of
Smith, Gambrell & Russell, LLP. She practices in employee benefits law, with a
specific concentration in health and welfare matters, including compliance with
health care reform legislation, ERISA, HIPAA, FMLA and COBRA. She can be reached
at kbongiovanni@sgrlaw.com

URL: http://www.ebn.benefitnews.com/

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: EBN


                        Copyright 2011 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             425 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo)

                           November 16, 1999, Tuesday

Health plan to cover treatment abroad

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 278 words


The government on Monday decided to revise the national health insurance law to
provide coverage for overseas medical treatment under the public insurance plan.

The Health and Welfare Ministry plans to submit a bill to revise the law during
the next ordinary Diet session after it is scrutinized by the ministry's council
of medical insurance and welfare as early as next month.

National health insurance, which is mainly taken out by farmers and the
self-employed, is the nation's only medical insurance plan that does not cover
overseas medical treatment.

Prompted by complaints from policyholders, the Management and Coordination
Agency will soon ask the Health and Welfare Ministry to discuss the plan and
draft a bill.

In response to an increase in globalization in the business sector and the
number of Japanese business people traveling overseas for longer periods of
time, health insurance societies that serve employees of large corporations and
health insurance plans for workers of small and medium-sized companies have
covered overseas medical treatment, including during personal trips, since 1981.

Health insurance for people aged 70 and older has covered overseas medical costs
since its establishment in 1982.

For example, payments for overseas medical treatment for employees of small and
medium-sized companies insured under health insurance plans totaled about 200
million yen in fiscal 1997.

Due to constraints on the national coffers, however, coverage of overseas
medical costs under the national health insurance plan was postponed, as
self-employed workers and farmers were not perceived as frequent business
travelers.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Yomiuri Shimbun


                             426 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           February 6, 2002 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Health fund merger talks spark unease

BYLINE: Mark Metherell

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 556 words


Merger moves by two major health funds sparked concern from hospital and
consumer groups yesterday about the impact of big business on Australia's health
insurance industry.

The national consumer watchdog said it would seek an explanation from MBF and
AXA the second and third biggest funds in Australia about any merger plans and
their impact on fund competition.

This comes a day after the country's biggest health fund, Medibank Private, was
reported to have sought Federal Government approval to lift its premiums by 13
per cent.

The latest developments are part of what industry analysts believe are the first
shots in a health insurance contest between corporate heavyweights.

It has been speculated that MBF, a mutual fund, will acquire the health
insurance division of the French-owned insurance conglomerate as a likely first
step in absorbing the business.

The Australian Consumers' Association's Nicola Ballenden said the speculation
about a merger and Medibank's bid for big increases raised the prospect of
health insurance developing into a bank-style market dominated by a handful of
big players, with little real competition.

At present, there are 44 health funds, many of them a fraction the size of the
big players, and most not-for-profit organisations.

It is believed only about a third of the funds have sought to lift their
premiums in the bid now being considered by the Government.

Several applicants for rises are bigger funds which challenges the argument that
big fund efficiencies would deliver lower premiums.

The chief executive of a big hospital operator, Catholic Health Australia,
Francis Sullivan, said the present policy on insurance inevitably would lead to
a market-driven health system.

He said the "cherry-picking" of profitable, healthy patients and a lack of
incentives for treatment of chronically ill patients by the private system were
the result of a system based largely on price.

The creation of bigger health funds did not need to be all "gloom and doom" but
did raise the question of whether market dominance by a few funds would lead to
better outcomes for patients.

Late yesterday, AXA confirmed it had talked to MBF after earlier refusing to
confirm or deny reports of the merger.

A spokesman for the Federal Health Minister, Senator Kay Patterson, said neither
the minister, nor her department, had been advised of merger talks, reported by
one source to have been under way since late last year.

The Government did not have a set view on such a development and would deal with
any matters on a case-by-case basis, the spokesman said.

The chairman of the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, Professor
Allan Fels, said a merged entity would have 27 per cent of the market, compared
with Medibank's 30.7 per cent.

The top four firms in the industry would have close to 75 per cent of the
market, and a merger in this setting required close examination.

The Opposition Leader, Simon Crean, said the "audacious" bid by Medibank
Private, the largest fund, showed that the creation of big funds did not
guarantee premiums would be kept down.

The Australian Medical Association president, Dr Kerryn Phelps, called for more
transparency in the setting of premiums.

With families on tight budgets being lured into funds, it was only fair they
knew the true financial state of the funds.

Editorial Page 12

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2002 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             427 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

Health Ministry: Vast majority of Israelis hold supplemental insurance

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 380 words


As medical services provided by the four public health funds under the National
Health Insurance Law decrease compared to those available on the private market,
the number of people who take out supplementary health insurance policies from
their health fund is growing.

Of 7,133,000 residents with National Health Insurance, 5,001,000 pay an average
of NIS 269 to NIS 348 annually per person for supplementary coverage.

These statistics are provided by the Health Ministry's first-ever annual report
on supplemental health services, released for publication on Tuesday and
covering 2006. It was prepared by ministry officials and private accountant
Dafna Ravid-Barzilai.

Health fund members with supplementary insurance use it mainly to choose their
own surgeon (in public or private hospitals) or for a second-opinion
consultation. Supplemental policies also offer policy holders subsidized
medications not included in the official basket of health services, improved
organ transplant services abroad and other benefits.

The health funds - Clalit Health Services, Maccabi Health Services, Kupat Holim
Meuhedet and Kupat Holim Leumit - are not permitted by law to have any annual
deficit in their supplementary health insurance arrangements, and any surplus
income must be used by the health funds to expand and improve their
supplementary health insurance for the next year, with ministry approval in
advance.

The health funds spend only 75 percent (Leumit) to 89% (Maccabi) of their income
from supplementary health insurance policies on additional members' services.
Thus Maccabi claims that it invests the most in its supplementary health
insurance policy holders and - because it spends the least on overhead - is the
most efficient provider.

Clalit offers the cheapest supplementary policy, averaging NIS 269 per person
per year (depending on the age of the member), while Maccabi's average price is
NIS 344, with NIS 297 collected by Meuhedet and NIS 348 by Leumit.

But these policies are not uniform, and the more expensive policies may (or may
not) offer additional benefits (with ministry permission). The varied policies
were intended by the government to increase competition among the health funds,
although only a small minority of residents switch health funds in any one year.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             428 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                               September 9, 1996

Experts Hope LTC Laws Will Bring Better Product

BYLINE: BY FREDERICK SCHMITT

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 664 words

DATELINE: HILTON HEAD, S.C.


Although long-term care insurers received a legislative boost from the federal
government last week, experts still aren't sure whether the newly-enacted
measures will bring about extensive improvement.

They are cautiously optimistic, however, that the reform will provide heightened
credibility for the insurance option.

According to Bill Gradison, president of the Health Insurance Association of
America, a speaker at the 11th Annual Private Long-Term Care Insurance
Conference here, the new legislation "doesn't really change a lot."

"I would anticipate that the legislation, in an indirect way, will prodde
something like a Good Housekeeping seal of approval for longterm care, and
consequently encourage more people to purchase the policies," said Mr. Gradison.

In recent years, consumer lack of knowledge regarding LTC has been documented.
HIAA said about 60 percent of people over 55-years-old have little or no
awareness of long-term care insurance.

As far as the legislation's ability to improve consumer awareness, Mr. Gradison
couldn't say for sure what the outcome would be.

"(The new laws) should permit those who market long-term care insurance and the
consumers who purchase it to do so with greater assurance about what the tax
impact will be," he said. "Hopefully, the side effect of the tax breaks will be
increased public recognition and participation."

North Dakota Insurance Commissioner Glen Pomeroy -- who also spoke at the
gathering -- said he doesn't believe the tax breaks will be huge from a dollars
and cents standpoint.

"However, from what I've heard, industry representatives view this as important
not just for the dollar incentives, but for the recognition of value that
Congress has placed in this product," Mr. Pomeroy said. "It brings this market
further along in terms of maturity and growth."

He continued to say he is "cautiously optimistic the action will stimulate the
thinking of the buying public that the federal government isn't necessarily
going to take care of their long-term care needs."

Terms of the legislation, which are spelled out in the recently-signed
Kassebaum-Kennedy health care reform bill, state that consumers may now apply
the cost of long-term care insurance premiums toward the allowable deduction for
medical expenses on their federal taxes.

In addition, employers will be able to deduct both the cost of setting up a
long-term care insurance plan, as well as contributions toward the cost of
employee premiums.

Mr. Pomeroy also stressed the importance of consumer protection in making LTC
insurance successful.

"There were horrible products back in the eighties, and we can't go back to
those. With that in mind, the products receiving this tax treatment have to be
of high quality and filled with consumer protections."

He also said the regulators and the industry need to work together to make sure
the products being sold today have meaning in 20 years.

"We don't really have any answers right now about the products' future, but we
do know we need to work together to make sure that the people buying and paying
now will wind up with value," he said.

In addition to increasing consumer knowledge of long-term care, Mr. Gradison
said HIAA wants customers to have LTC policies "that offer meaningful benefits
at a reasonable price."

He said there has to be thorough disdosure of benefits, limitations and plan
provisions; appropriate insurer and agent sales and marketing practices; and
guaranteed renewable policies.

The legislation prohibits a corn pany from canceling a policy be cause of age,
or deterioration of mental or physical health. Also, if a policyholder is late
in paying a pre mium, the policy can be reinstated up to five months later if
the reason for non-payment is shown to be cognitive impairment. Also, consumers
covered under a group policy will be allowed to continue their coverage when
they leave their employer, as long as premiums are paid.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1996 The National Underwriter Company


                             429 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               November 22, 2010

IOM takes first step in defining essential health benefits

BYLINE: By Doug Trapp, amednews staff. Posted Nov. 22, 2010.

SECTION: GOVERNMENT; Pg. 10 Vol. 53 No. 47

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: Washington



HIGHLIGHT: The independent advisory group will guide HHS on criteria for
selecting the minimum benefits that insurance plans must have to be offered in
exchanges.


 Preliminary work has begun on one of the most significant decisions in
implementing the national health reform law: choosing the minimum benefits that
health plans must offer to be sold in the reform law's 2014 health insurance
coverage requirement.

The Institute of Medicine, an independent advisory group, announced in early
November that it began a study to recommend how to determine and update these
"essential benefits," as they are known in the health reform law. The essential
benefits package also will determine which types of health care and services, if
any, will be in higher demand.

The Dept. of Health and Human Services requested the IOM study before its
rulemaking process begins. The study is expected to be delivered by September
2011.

HHS will develop separate standards for the minimum amount of health insurance
individuals must have to meet the health reform law's individual health
insurance mandate.

The current minimum

The health reform law already specified many benefits to be included. At a
minimum, qualifying health plans must cover:

     ·     Inpatient, outpatient, emergency and maternity care.
     ·     Mental health and substance abuse treatment.
     ·     Oral and vision care.
     ·     Prescription drugs, lab tests.
     ·     Preventive and rehabilitative care.


IOM researchers will not suggest specific benefits or services to be included as
essential benefits. Instead, they will review how insurers determine coverage
and medical necessity and provide guidance and principles for the HHS secretary
to consider when deciding what other criteria to add to the list. For example,
the study will look at the health care needs of diverse population segments and
nondiscrimination based on age, disability and life expectancy. IOM researchers
will offer advice on how the government can periodically review and update the
benefits package.

Massachusetts and Utah are the only states with health insurance exchanges. Both
require health plans to offer a minimum level of benefits to qualify for
inclusion in their exchanges.

The national health reform law has resolved two of the most contentious issues
Massachusetts faced: deductibles and mandated prescription drug coverage, said
Nancy Turnbull, a board member of the Commonwealth Connector, the independent
state agency that set essential benefits for Massachusetts.

Essential benefits questions

But many other questions remain about the national essential benefits, she said.
Although other states don't mandate health insurance, many require health plans
to cover some services. Those state benefit mandates vary widely, as do the
benefits covered by employers.

For example, only Massachusetts and 14 other states require health plans to
cover in vitro fertilization, according to the Council for Affordable Health
Insurance, a research and advocacy association of insurance carriers in the
individual, small group, HSA and senior markets.

In a separate study expected to be completed in the spring of 2011, the Dept. of
Labor will look at the benefits employee health plans typically offer. The new
federal law specifies that the essential benefits package represent those
typically covered by employers.

The more benefits HHS names as essential, the higher the premiums for the
coverage and the more that small businesses, consumer advocates and health
insurers will worry about the cost of premiums.

"We do think the affordability issue should be a part of this discussion," said
Robert Zirkelbach, a spokesman for America's Health Insurance Plans.

IOM is accepting public comments on its study through Dec. 6. The IOM committee
managing the study will meet in January, said IOM spokeswoman Ashley McWilliams.


Weblink

"Determination of Essential Health Benefits," Insitute of Medicine
(www.iom.edu/Activities/HealthServices/EssentialHealthBenefits.aspx)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                             430 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               November 22, 2010

IOM takes first step in defining essential health benefits

BYLINE: By Doug Trapp, amednews staff. Posted Nov. 22, 2010.

SECTION: GOVERNMENT; Pg. 10 Vol. 53 No. 47

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: Washington



HIGHLIGHT: The independent advisory group will guide HHS on criteria for
selecting the minimum benefits that insurance plans must have to be offered in
exchanges.


 Preliminary work has begun on one of the most significant decisions in
implementing the national health reform law: choosing the minimum benefits that
health plans must offer to be sold in the reform law's 2014 health insurance
coverage requirement.

The Institute of Medicine, an independent advisory group, announced in early
November that it began a study to recommend how to determine and update these
"essential benefits," as they are known in the health reform law. The essential
benefits package also will determine which types of health care and services, if
any, will be in higher demand.

The Dept. of Health and Human Services requested the IOM study before its
rulemaking process begins. The study is expected to be delivered by September
2011.

HHS will develop separate standards for the minimum amount of health insurance
individuals must have to meet the health reform law's individual health
insurance mandate.

The current minimum

The health reform law already specified many benefits to be included. At a
minimum, qualifying health plans must cover:

     ·     Inpatient, outpatient, emergency and maternity care.
     ·     Mental health and substance abuse treatment.
     ·     Oral and vision care.
     ·     Prescription drugs, lab tests.
     ·     Preventive and rehabilitative care.


IOM researchers will not suggest specific benefits or services to be included as
essential benefits. Instead, they will review how insurers determine coverage
and medical necessity and provide guidance and principles for the HHS secretary
to consider when deciding what other criteria to add to the list. For example,
the study will look at the health care needs of diverse population segments and
nondiscrimination based on age, disability and life expectancy. IOM researchers
will offer advice on how the government can periodically review and update the
benefits package.

Massachusetts and Utah are the only states with health insurance exchanges. Both
require health plans to offer a minimum level of benefits to qualify for
inclusion in their exchanges.

The national health reform law has resolved two of the most contentious issues
Massachusetts faced: deductibles and mandated prescription drug coverage, said
Nancy Turnbull, a board member of the Commonwealth Connector, the independent
state agency that set essential benefits for Massachusetts.

Essential benefits questions

But many other questions remain about the national essential benefits, she said.
Although other states don't mandate health insurance, many require health plans
to cover some services. Those state benefit mandates vary widely, as do the
benefits covered by employers.

For example, only Massachusetts and 14 other states require health plans to
cover in vitro fertilization, according to the Council for Affordable Health
Insurance, a research and advocacy association of insurance carriers in the
individual, small group, HSA and senior markets.

In a separate study expected to be completed in the spring of 2011, the Dept. of
Labor will look at the benefits employee health plans typically offer. The new
federal law specifies that the essential benefits package represent those
typically covered by employers.

The more benefits HHS names as essential, the higher the premiums for the
coverage and the more that small businesses, consumer advocates and health
insurers will worry about the cost of premiums.

"We do think the affordability issue should be a part of this discussion," said
Robert Zirkelbach, a spokesman for America's Health Insurance Plans.

IOM is accepting public comments on its study through Dec. 6. The IOM committee
managing the study will meet in January, said IOM spokeswoman Ashley McWilliams.


Weblink

"Determination of Essential Health Benefits," Insitute of Medicine
(www.iom.edu/Activities/HealthServices/EssentialHealthBenefits.aspx)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 American Medical Association
                              All Rights Reserved


                             431 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            January 18, 2016 Monday

Trade unions, parties reject proposed health insurance bill

BYLINE: Al-Masry Al-Youm

LENGTH: 488  words


Seventy-four trade unions and political parties voiced opposition Monday to a
draft law on health insurance prepared by the Health Ministry, arguing that the
draft fails to ensure social justice and turns medicine into a "sheer
business"."The Health Ministry announced years ago it was working on a new
health insurance law, but the new draft needs more changes," Doctors' Syndicate
head Hussein Khairy said during a conference held at the syndicate's
headquarter. "Doctors are entitled to fair insurance, and quality medical
service ought to be provided at all hospitals," he stated.According to the State
Information System website, the health system in Egypt incorporates both the
public and private sectors of the health insurance market.Approximately 50
percent of the population is covered by basic government health insurance, a
further 30 percent are enrolled in private health insurance plans and 20 percent
of Egyptians have no health insurance.The current draft is designed to provide
the service to low-income citizens with a whole family, rather than an
individual, as recipient. But it has been met with criticism, largely for
failing to identify which hospitals should be enrolled in the service.

The lack of aproper strategy to assess what services will be provided to
citizens has also been met with dissaproval.Eihab al-Taher, the syndicate's
general secretary, said medical unions have unanimously rejected the draft. "The
law increases subscription fees, thus taking burdens away from the state and
adding them to citizens," said al-Taher. He said the fact that clauses in the
draft refer to insurance as "optional" while others stipulate it as "obligatory"
reflects "precipitousness" in applying the document."We want a good service, not
death beds for citizens," said deputy syndicate chief Mona Mina. "The health
ministry should be committed to upgrade hospitals in order to ensure an
inclusive health insurance," she added, stressing that citizens with an income
less than the minimum wage should also be covered, and not only those who
receive monthly "social solidarity" pensions as the draft stipulates.Al-Badri
Farhgali, a former MP and a prominent activist in pensions and insurance-related
issues, threatened to protest in Downtown Cairo against the new draft. "I and
other pensioners will protest in Talaat Harb Square," he said, labelling the law
as "(a stab) in people's backs."Shafiq al-Hakim, head of the dentists'
sub-syndicate, said Egypt's whole health system is "poorly managed". He added
that the constitution ensures the right of disadvantaged citizens to treatment,
which, he says, comes against "below-standard hospitals" and "poor medical
service".Abdel Galil Mostafa, a former leader of the opposition group Kefaya,
said the draft introduces health services as a kind of "business", which, he
said, makes the draft at odds with social justice.Edited translation from
Al-Masry Al-Youm

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2016 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             432 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday

Abortion insurance bill advances;

BYLINE: KEVIN O'HANLON

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 318 words


Lawmakers gave initial approval Wednesday to a bill that would add Nebraska to a
list of five other states that ban private insurers from paying for abortions
unless the customer buys a separate rider for the extra coverage.

The measure was given first-round approval on a 36-9 vote. It faces two more
rounds of consideration.

The bill (LB22), by Sen. Beau McCoy of Omaha, also would restrict insurance
coverage of abortion in policies offered through health insurance exchanges that
will be established by the federal health care reform law. The law allows states
to opt out of such coverage.

Under the measure, abortion would be allowed to protect the life of a mother. It
does not make an exception for pregnancies resulting from rape or incest.

According to the Guttmacher Institute, which tracks abortion statistics, Idaho,
Kentucky, Missouri, North Dakota and Oklahoma have laws restricting insurance
coverage of abortion in all private insurance plans written in these states,
including those that will be offered through health insurance exchanges. Rhode
Island passed a similar law, which was blocked by a court.

All five states have exceptions allowing abortion if a mother's life is in
danger. Oklahoma also has an exception for rape and incest.

And in all five states, additional abortion coverage is available only by buying
a separate rider and paying an additional premium.

Health care exchanges were created last year, when President Barack Obama signed
into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The state-level health
care exchanges, which will not be in place until 2014, are meant to help people
and small businesses buy affordable private health insurance plans. They're
meant to offer a choice of health insurance plans, establish common rules for
such things as pricing and help consumers understand their options.

Reach Kevin O'Hanlon at 402-473-2682 or kohanlon@journalstar.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                             433 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


           The Evening News and The Tribune (Jeffersonville, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday

Attorney general warns of phony health insurance salespeople

BYLINE: Matt Thacker, The Evening News and the Tribune, Jeffersonville, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 616 words


Apr. 14--SOUTHERN INDIANA -- Indiana Attorney General Greg Zoeller has issued a
warning to Hoosiers that scam artists may use confusion about the new federal
health care law to defraud residents into buying phony health insurance policies
.

"It comes as little surprise that the federal government's requirement that
individuals buy health insurance starting in 2014 would embolden scammers to
defraud people into buying it needlessly now," Zoeller said in a press release
last week. "The Indiana Attorney General's Office has not yet received
complaints of salespeople pushing dubious or phony health insurance policies
onto Hoosiers. But the situation is ripe for fraudsters to sow misunderstandings
among the public and then sell them worthless financial products."

The health care law passed last month includes a mandate that individuals who do
not already have health insurance must purchase a commercial policy from a
private company, but that does not take effect until 2014. At that time, states
will be required to operate exchanges where insurance companies will offer
health policies to uninsured individuals.

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius warned
in a letter to state attorneys general nationwide that there have been reports
of scammers going door-to-door selling phony insurance policies and falsely
claiming the new law created a "limited enrollment" period.

Deputy Attorney General Abigail Kuzma, director of the Consumer Protection
Division, said she would be "extremely surprised" if door-to-door salespeople
are enlisted to sell insurance plans. Authorities are preparing for telephone,
e-mail and door-to-door scams related to health insurance to increase in the
next few months.

In Indiana, an insurance company and its agents must be licensed, and health
care products must be filed with the Indiana Department of Insurance for
pre-approval. To verify licensing and pre-approval, contact the Department of
Insurance at www.in.gov/idoi or at 1-800-622-4461.

Zoeller said his office is ready to investigate any claims of health insurance
fraud. Complaints may be filed at www.IndianaConsumer.com or by calling
1-800-382-5516.

E-mail scam claims complaints filed against business

Several businesses in the Louisville area and in other cities have recently
received a malicious e-mail pretending to be from the Better Business Bureau.

The companies, which include law firms, advertising agencies and architecture
firms, received an e-mail from the address seatac@bbb.org with the subject line
"BBB Complaint Case #" followed by a nine-digit number. The scam has targeted
both BBB accredited and non-accredited businesses.

The e-mail claims that the company did not respond to a complaint filed, and it
includes a link to a page at www.ca-bbb.org where the business can supposedly
review the complaint, according to a BBB press release.

The BBB cautions recipients to not click any links or reply to the message.
Forward the message to phishing@council.bbb.org Delete the message from your
inbox and run a virus scan of your computer if you did click on any links.

If you receive a notice of a complaint from the BBB, contact the BBB directly at
www.louisville.bbb.org or 1-800-388-2222.

To see more of The Evening News and The Tribune, or to subscribe to the
newspapers, go to http://www.news-tribune.net. Copyright (c) 2010, The Evening
News and the Tribune, Jeffersonville, Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call
800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The
Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100414-JB-Attorney-general-warns-of-phony-health-insurance
-salespeople-0414

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JB


                Copyright 2010 The Evening News and The Tribune


                             434 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 BusinessWorld

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday

Health coverage for helpers approved

SECTION: Pg. S1/11

LENGTH: 261 words


The House of Representatives has endorsed for Senate approval a bill that
requires health insurance coverage for house helpers.

Approved on final reading at the last session on Wednesday, House Bill (HB) 1979
requires mandatory membership of all house helpers, regardless of their wages,
in the National Health Insurance Program (NHIP) of the Philippine Health
Insurance Corp. (PhilHealth).

Under present laws, only private employees or laborers receiving a minimum wage
of P1,000 are covered by PhilHealth.

Authored by Leyte Rep. Carmen L. Cari (5th district), HB 1979 provides that all
house helpers receiving a minimum wage of less than P1,000 a month should be
enrolled by their employers in the NHIP and the employer should shoulder the
required contributions.

In her explanatory note of the bill, Ms. Cari said, "HB 1979 would ensure
quality health care services that are affordable, acceptable, available and
accessible for the house helpers."

The bill provides penalties for noncompliance by employers based on the National
Health Insurance Act of 1995 (Republic Act 7875) and other pertinent laws.

The National Health Insurance Act provides that all employees in the private
sector covered by the Social Security System (SSS) are immediately and
automatically made members of the NHIP.

"We should never discriminate house helpers... this discrepancy [in the coverage
of PhilHealth membership] runs counter to the mandatory and compulsory coverage
of all citizens of the Philippines in the program as required by law," Speaker
Prospero C. Nograles said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2008 BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             435 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

Welcome reversal;
Insurers trim price of mandated insurance plans

SECTION: EDITORIAL; IN OUR OPINION; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 326 words


In a welcome reversal, insurers in Massachusetts' fledgling health insurance
program have offered a menu of plans that should be affordable to low-income
residents.

The law, enacted last year, requires all residents to have health insurance.
Many low-income residents who do not qualify for the MassHealth/Medicaid program
for the indigent do qualify for subsidies on a sliding scale. Making affordable
insurance available for the 160,000 to 200,000 low-income residents who do not
qualify for subsidies is essential to the program's success.

Consequently, the initial round of bids from insurers in January was more than
disappointing. The $380 average monthly premium clearly was unaffordable to many
of the low-income workers the law was supposed to benefit.

That prompted Sen. Richard T. Moore, an architect and champion of the health
insurance law, to remark that if insurers couldn't offer affordable policies,
the state might opt to regulate rates as it does for auto insurance - a prospect
that doubtlessly spurred insurers to sharpen their pencils considerably for the
rebidding process.

The new bids, to be presented to the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector
Authority tomorrow, feature premiums averaging $175 a month for the typical
uninsured resident. That is lower, even, than the $200 monthly premium targeted
as the benchmark of affordability by former Gov. Mitt Romney.

Plans for young adults are even more affordable. In Central Massachusetts,
Neighborhood Health Plan, Fallon Community Health Plan and Harvard Pilgrim
Health Care offer plans with attractively low monthly premiums in the $130
range.

Yet to be determined is the minimum coverage level that will satisfy the state
mandate, an issue the Connector Authority plans to address March 20, so the
insurance program launched last October remains a work in progress. Still, the
affordable plans offered by the insurers remove what might have been an
insurmountable obstacle to success.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             436 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Business Management Daily

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

ACA decision reaffirms employer mandate

BYLINE: The HR Specialist, Business Management Daily

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


June 29--This article was originally written by The HR Specialist for
Compensation and Benefits
[http://www.businessmanagementdaily.com/category/human-resources/compensation-an
d-benefits?affilateid=Tribune]

The Supreme Court's June 25 decision in King v. Burwell did more than guarantee
that Affordable Care Act (ACA) subsidies are available to all qualified
individuals, regardless of whether they buy health insurance through a state or
federal exchange. It also reaffirmed that the ACA's employer mandate is here to
stay.

If you already provide health insurance to your employees, the court's 6-3
ruling has little effect. As long as you are already in compliance with the ACA,
you don't need to do anything.

The issue in the case was the meaning of "exchange." The ACA encouraged states
to establish exchanges so individuals could buy health insurance. The law also
established a federal exchange--Healthcare.gov--which operates as a backstop in
34 states without their own exchanges.

But one part of the law contained ambiguous language that the plaintiffs
contended meant subsidies were not available to anyone buying coverage through
Healthcare.gov. Many feared that taking away subsidies would wreak havoc on
insurance markets, setting up a "death spiral" of consumers dropping coverage,
which in turn would drive up premiums for everyone--including employers that
offer health benefits.

By upholding subsidies, the court averted a health insurance industry implosion.
Writing for the majority, Chief Justice John Roberts observed, "Congress passed
the Affordable Care Act to improve insurance markets, not to destroy them."

The ruling that subsidies are universally available also reinforced the employer
mandate. Reason: "The employer mandate is enforced through penalties that are
triggered when a full-time employee receives subsidized health insurance through
an online public health insurance marketplace," said Mark Holloway of Lockton,
the country's largest insurance brokerage. "Had the federal marketplace lost the
ability to provide those subsidies in the 34 states it serves, as a practical
matter there would have been no enforceable employer mandate."

Advice: Continue your ACA compliance efforts. Focus on the law's 2016
requirement to inform employees and the IRS about the health coverage you offer.
If you offer high-cost health coverage, continue planning for ways to avoid the
40% "Cadillac tax" that goes into effect in 2018.

Copyright 2015 Business Management Daily, a division of Capitol Information
Group, Inc. All rights reserved.

___ (c)2015 Business Management Daily Visit Business Management Daily at
www.businessmanagementdaily.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150629-BMD-ACA-decision-reaffirms-employer-mandate-0629-20150629

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMD


                                 Copyright 2015


                             437 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                          February 12, 2014 Wednesday

New regulations to boost insurance firms' premiums

LENGTH: 806 words


Dubai's new health insurance rule will pave way for growth.

The newly introduced mandatory Dubai health insurance programme will encourage
the acceleration of premium expansion of healthcare insurers, but strict
regulations could impair this business line's potential to increase insurers'
profits, Moody's said in an analytical report.

"We expect the healthcare sector in the UAE to grow significantly in the
medium-term. The introduction of the health cover should in particular
accelerate the premium expansion of healthcare insurers in Dubai, particularly
in the medium-term due to the extended implementation phases," Harshani
Kotuwegedara, associate analyst of Financial Institutions Group at Moody's
Investors Service, said in a report.

The Dubai Health Authority (DHA) signed the 'Health insurance law' for Dubai in
November 2013. Dubai will implement Isahd in multiple stages from January 2014
to June 2016.

"The primary objective of this law is to ensure the wellbeing of the Dubai
population, with insurer profitability being a lesser concern. In addition, the
premiums are capped by a fixed index rate which, together with high levels of
anticipated claims, would narrow the margins of participating health insurers."

Moody's expects this law to be particularly unfavourable for smaller insurers,
while larger players would benefit from their scale advantages resulting from
superior claims management, strong provider networks and capacity to cross-sell
other products.

The ratings agency noted that there would be increased competition among
providers of non-mandatory health insurance to retain their health insurance
market share.

"The UAE is currently the second most expensive healthcare insurance market in
the GCC. As mandatory cover is much cheaper compared to the present voluntary
medical cover, employers may choose to 'trade-down' or substitute the latter
with Isahd. This may result in loss of market share and higher competition both
in terms of pricing and product features for those insurers offering only
voluntary cover," It said.

Under the new law, employers and sponsors will be responsible for providing the
cover for expatriates and dependants respectively, while the government will be
responsible for nationals. In order to be eligible to provide the cover
healthcare providers were required to obtain a permit from the DHA by January 1.
Presently, 50 insurers have registered and DHA is evaluating their feasibility
on areas such as capacity, data security, reinsurance, underwriting performance
and financial reporting.

Moody's analysts observed that while the requirement for mandatory cover would
naturally lead to an expansion of the local healthcare market, there is also the
potential for a growing non-mandatory market in the form of 'top-ups' or
alternatives to the basic mandatory scheme cover.

"This may develop following increasing awareness of the benefits of health
insurance, driven by the introduction of Isahd, as well as the limitations of
the mandatory cover and the increasing costs of not putting in place sufficient
health insurance provision," the report said.

Currently, either the government or private insurers provide health insurance
policies for around 40-50 per cent of Dubai residents. This contrasts with most
GCC countries which, with the exception of Oman, have already implemented
mandatory health covers for expats. Participating insurers also have the option
of adding co-insurance and additional covers to the mandatory policy, which may
be attractive for policyholders with high medical demands or international
usage.

However, UAE's health insurance is very expensive and prices can vary
considerably depending on the benefits and coverage. "We believe that, as a
result of these high costs, the take-up of voluntary health insurance thus far
has been somewhat restricted. For example, basic voluntary cover (more or less
similar coverage to Isahd) with a local insurer has a starting price of around
Dh1,800, whereas comprehensive cover (including world-wide coverage) would start
at around Dh5,000 or higher.

Although health statistics indicate that the UAE government bears the majority
60 per cent of total healthcare costs, this has fallen from 74 per cent in 2007,
with out-of-pocket medical expenses almost doubling to 30 per cent from 16 per
cent.   In 2012, Dh10 billion was spent on healthcare, of which Dh5.8 billion
was spent on private healthcare.

Moody's said premium rate regulation is likely to suppress industry returns
overall, with arduous and costly claims management procedures, the risk of
adverse selection and the challenges of managing third-party service providers
(hospitals, medical staff). In addition, as insurers retain the majority of the
medical premiums, the claims burden cannot be passed on to the reinsurer.

- issacjohn@khaleejtimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             438 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Independent Record (Helena, Montana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday

Montana gets $1M to review fairness of health premiums

BYLINE: Mike Dennison, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 685 words


Aug. 17--As part of the federal health care reform law, Montana is getting $1
million in federal funds to help review whether health-insurance premiums are
fairly priced in the state.

One problem, however: Montana has little or no authority in state law to review
or approve these rates.

Monica Lindeen, the state auditor and insurance commissioner, will be asking the
2011 Legislature to grant her office that authority.

In the meantime, however, Lindeen's office will start using the money to gather
information on health-insurance rates in Montana, design web-based material to
help consumers shop for health insurance and beef up existing enforcement.

"What we need to do, before we move forward, is just to see where we're at,"
said Jackie Boyle, spokeswoman for Lindeen. "We really need a sense of what's
going on (in the market), and that takes a lot of work by an actuary."

Lindeen's office will use its own actuary and probably contract with another
actuary to examine whether health-insurance premiums in Montana are reasonable
and match the risk that insurers face, Boyle said.

The Obama administration on Monday announced awards to Montana and other states
to improve oversight of health insurer rates, as authorized by the new federal
reform law.

Kathleen Sebelius, the U.S. secretary of Health and Human Services, said the
state awards "demonstrate the need and desire for new resources and tools to
help protect (consumers) against unjustifiable premium increases."

Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Montana, the dominant health insurer in Montana,
is already doing what it can to keep premiums as low as possible, said company
spokesman Tim Warner, such as scaling back on administrative costs.

He said further review of its rates won't affect the driving factor behind
higher premiums: higher medical costs.

Blue Cross plans to keep working with hospitals, other medical providers and
Lindeen's office to see what can be done to keep premiums fair and reasonable,
Warner said.

Montana currently is "at the very far end of the least amount of authority (over
health insurance rates) of all the states," Boyle said. Montana does not require
health insurers to file their rates and therefore doesn't review those rates.
Instead, Lindeen's office can respond to consumer complaints to see if the rates
or policy in questions comply with state law.

On Thursday, Lindeen's office plans to present to a legislative committee its
proposed changes in state law, to give her office authority to review
health-insurance rates.

If the 2011 Legislature doesn't grant review authority to the state, the federal
government will assume that authority in Montana, Boyle said.

Even without that authority, Montana can use the $1 million in federal funds to
expand its current enforcement actions based on consumer complaints and
examinations of "market conduct" by insurers, she added.

The web design undertaken by Lindeen's office will offer the public basic
information on how to buy health insurance, what products are best for certain
consumers, and what's available in the market.

Boyle said Lindeen's office already had planned to work on the web-based
material, as well as ask the 2011 Legislature for rate-review authority. The $1
million grant takes some pressure off the office staff by providing additional
money to hire outside help, if necessary, to carry out state-level duties to
implement the federal health-reform law, she said.

"The grant money will be used to improve and enhance the enforcement of existing
rating rules in Montana and also to expand and implement major-medical rate
review and approval authority in Montana," added Lindeen in a statement.

To see more of the Independent Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.helenair.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Independent Record, Helena, Mont.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100817-HE-HEALTH-PREMIUMS-PROBE-20100817

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HE


                       Copyright 2010 Independent Record


                             439 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday

Dental coalition urges House to support the Competitive Health Insurance Reform
Act

LENGTH: 224  words

DATELINE: New York



 Chicago: American Dental Association has issued the following news release:



 The Organized Dentistry Coalition on Feb. 24 expressed its "strong support" of
H.R. 372, the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act.





 In a letter to House Judiciary Chair Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., and ranking member
John Conyers, D-Mich., the coalition urged the committee to cosponsor the
legislation, which calls for the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice
Department to "enforce the federal antitrust laws against health insurance
companies engaged in anticompetitive conduct."



 The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act amends a section of the
McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945, which exempts the insurance industry from federal
antitrust laws.



 "The bill is narrowly drawn to apply only to the business of health insurance,
including dental insurance, and would not affect the business of life insurance,
property or casualty insurance, and many similar insurance areas," the coalition
wrote. "Passage of H. R. 372 would help interject more competition into the
insurance marketplace by authorizing greater federal antitrust enforcement in
instances where state regulators fail to act. When competition is not robust,
consumers are more likely to face higher prices and less likely to and less
likely to benefit from innovation and variety in the marketplace."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             440 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Momentous ruling on Obamacare

BYLINE: The Baltimore Sun

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 601 words


The Supreme Court handed President Barack Obama a major victory Thursday when
the justices voted 6-3 to uphold the administration's interpretation of a key
provision of the Affordable Care Act. The decision means that millions of
Americans who were at risk of losing their health insurance if the court had
ruled against the act will be allowed to keep their coverage. And it all but
assures that the president's signature health care legislation, which
Republicans have repeatedly tried and failed to undermine, is effectively here
to stay.

The case before the court, King v. Burwell, hinged on a single, relatively
obscure phrase buried in the nearly 1,000-page law in a section covering people
who receive tax credits to offset the cost of purchasing health insurance in the
37 states where the federal government set up health insurance exchanges after
state officials refused to establish such marketplaces themselves. The contested
language in that phrase occurred in a passage that seemed to suggest that the
subsidies were available only to people buying insurance on "an exchange
established by a state."

The four plaintiffs in the case, who were represented by a conservative group
that opposes the health care law, argued that the Internal Revenue Service
therefore could not legally offer subsidies to people who bought health
insurance on a federal, rather than a state, exchange. Since almost all of those
who purchase coverage on the federal exchanges could not afford to do so without
the subsidies, a ruling in the plaintiffs' favor would have immediately caused
millions of people to lose their coverage under the law and brought about the
financial collapse of the health insurance markets in those states.

In writing for the majority, Chief Justice John Robert's acknowledged the
ambiguity contained in what he called the "inartful drafting" of the phrase at
issue. But he went on to say that its meaning must be interpreted within the
overall context of the law. Because Congress clearly intended the act to apply
to people who bought insurance coverage on both the federal and state exchanges,
the court should cede to the government's argument that they were all equally
eligible for federal subsidies as well.

"Congress passed the Affordable Care Act to improve health insurance markets,
not to destroy them," he wrote.

In coming days we can expect to see a chorus of GOP presidential candidates
lining up to throw cold water on the president's victory. Some already are
calling for embracing a complicated procedural scheme known as "reconciliation"
to sabotage the law later this year.

But Republicans also may be secretly relieved the court upheld their nemesis; if
the justices had struck down the ACA,.0 they would have found themselves in the
awkward position of having to come up with real alternatives to replace it
rather than the ritual denunciations they've offered so far.

The case is likely to be the last serious legal challenge to the Affordable Care
Act for the foreseeable future. Shortly after the decision was announced, Obama
held a press conference in which he praised the court's ruling and called on
lawmakers of both parties to work together to further strengthen the nation's
health care system by expanding access to Medicaid, the federal program for the
poor, and by continuing to rein in hospital costs.

Couple his win in the courts with Congress' passage earlier this week of
legislation giving Obama fast-track authority to negotiate a major trade pact
with Asia and the president can truly say this has been a very good week for him
- and the American people.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             441 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

Is Obamacare a Boon or Bust for Entrepreneurship?

LENGTH: 814  words

DATELINE: Washington


Small Business Majority has issued the following press release:

When the Affordable Care Act was passed, there was a lot of talk about how the
law could spur entrepreneurship across the country.

Specifically, the ACA meant potential entrepreneurs would have one less thing to
worry about: access to health insurance. "One of the biggest impediments to
starting your own business was worrying about not being able to get coverage ...
or exorbitant rates. That impediment is now just completely eliminated" under
the ACA, says David Chase, the California director of the advocacy group Small
Business Majority, adding, "That really opens the door."

And now that the ACA's second open enrollment period is underway, experts say
the future is looking good for current and future entrepreneurs. For instance,
anecdotal evidence out of California strongly suggests that the ACA has helped
create a friendly environment for consumers wanting to branch off from the
traditional workforce and start their own business. However, hard data on how
many small business owners and entrepreneurs have signed up for coverage through
the law's insurance exchanges have not been made available yet.
The ACA's Promise for Entrepreneurs

Earlier this year, Dane Stangler -- vice president of research and policy at the
Kauffman Foundation -- predicted that 25,000 new businesses would be created
annually because of how the law expands access to health insurance.

Meanwhile, a report last year by the Urban Institute and Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation predicted that the ACA would increase the number of self-employed
U.S. residents by 1.5 million.

But at the same time, the law also means that entrepreneurs face new health
insurance requirements. For instance, the law requires self-employed residents
to purchase health insurance for themselves or face a fee. According to the
magazine Entrepreneur, self-insured individuals have to decide between
purchasing health coverage for themselves, facing a fee for lacking such
coverage, or hiring workers, which would qualify them to purchase coverage
through the ACA's Small Business Health Options Program.

Do the benefits of health insurance outweigh any additional taxes or
requirements that entrepreneurs and small businesses might face under the law?

Chase's answer: "Absolutely."

Other observers tend to agree. William Craig, an entrepreneur and president of
WebpageFX, wrote in Forbes that "the Affordable Care Act might have the biggest
impact on small business creation of any recent federal legislation."
How the ACA Could Affect Employment

Many experts have noted that the ACA counteracts "job lock," which keeps
employees from leaving their current jobs because they are afraid of losing
their benefits, including health insurance.

Craig wrote, "For talented professionals experiencing 'job lock' ... the ACA can
be a net-positive."

John Brown, a research professor at Clark University's Mosakowski Institute for
Public Enterprise, said that workers ages 50 to 59 "have the highest incentives
of anyone to be released from the job-lock problem." Brown said such workers
could use insurance available through the ACA as "a bridge between
company-provided health insurance and Medicare."

However, columnist Jonah Goldberg has argued in the National Review that "the
law also raises the implicit marginal tax on people looking for work; the more
you earn, the fewer subsides you get. Thus, for many people, the costs of taking
on more or better work will exceed the gains."
Early Indications of the Law's Impact

In California, Small Business Majority has asked the state health insurance
exchange to release data on the number of enrollees who designated themselves as
self-employed, but those numbers have not yet been made available.

In the absence of hard data, there is anecdotal evidence that the health reform
law has helped entrepreneurs and even spurred more people to leave the
traditional workforce to start their own business, Chase said.

He added, "We know that the number of uninsured people in California has been
cut roughly in half, and we know that ... a large percentage of the uninsured
were self-employed," adding, "So you can sort of assume that there's a large
percentage of folks in Covered California that are self-employed.

"We know before the ACA was passed about 30% of the self-employed were uninsured
-- 30% is more than double the percentage of the population as a whole" that was
uninsured, he noted.

Once official data are released on how many exchange enrollees are
self-employed, it will be more apparent whether the ACA has lived up to its
promise of spurring entrepreneurship. However, it is unclear when the exchanges
will release that data. In the meantime, "Road to Reform" will keep an eye on
this issue. Stay tuned.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             442 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                               December 17, 2007

U.S. District Court in Tenn. rules ERISA doesn't preempt employee's health
insurance claim

BYLINE: Lawyers USA Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 412  words


An employee who claimed his employer broke its oral promise to extend his health
insurance coverage when he left his job can sue - the suit is not preempted by
ERISA, a U.S. District Court in Tennessee has ruled.

The employee entered into a separation agreement with the employer. The parties
agree that neither the separation agreement nor the company retirement plan
provided for health insurance until the employee turned 66.

The employee claimed that the employer orally promised continued health
insurance coverage as part of the separation.

When the employer failed to provide the coverage, the employee sued for breach
of contract under state law.

Section 502(a)(1)(B) of ERISA completely preempts state law causes of action
that are based on the terms of an ERISA-regulated employee benefit plan.

The employer sought to remove the case to federal court, claiming it was
preempted by ERISA.

The employee argued that his breach of contract claim didn't involve the
administration of an employee benefit plan under ERISA because he sought
continued health insurance under the separation agreement, not pursuant to an
ERISA plan.

The court agreed.

"In the instant case coverage of a specific treatment - or class of treatments -
is not at issue. [The] plaintiffs' merely seek continued health insurance
coverage. They take issue with the duration of coverage, not the substantive
scope of coverage. [The] plaintiffs' claim does not hinge on the language of the
ERISA-governed healthcare plan itself, or on the retirement plan referenced in
the separation agreement. Instead, [the] plaintiffs seek to enforce an alleged
oral contract," the court said.

Here, "no ERISA-governed action comprises a necessary element of [the]
plaintiffs' breach of contract action. Instead, according to [the] plaintiffs'
allegations, [the] defendant had an 'independent legal duty' to extend [the
employee's] health insurance. [N]othing in the record suggests that [the]
plaintiffs could have proceeded under ERISA. Neither party has submitted
anything to show that an ERISA-governed plan may grant what plaintiffs are now
asking for - namely, post-separation health insurance until [the employee's]
66th birthday. Therefore the court holds that [the] plaintiffs' breach of
contract cause of action is not completely preempted by ERISA Sect.
502(a)(1)(B). "

Poss v. Chattanooga Gas Co. (Lawyers USA No. 9938817) U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Tennessee No. 1:07-CV-206. Nov. 19, 2007.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             443 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                            January 13, 2012 Friday

Medics Seek Inclusion of Parents in Health Insurance

BYLINE: Dan Ngabonziza

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: Nyagatare


Health workers in Nyagatare District have appealed to the government to consider
including their parents in civil servants' health insurance scheme, RAMA.

"Currently, a working person insured with RAMA is not allowed to insure his or
her parents but if the new policy allows, this will be a positive move in the
health sector," said one of the health workers.

The Director of Nyagatare Hospital, Dr. Ben Rukunda, suggested that the
government could learn how the health insurance policy works elsewhere in
developed countries.

"In European countries, when a civil servant retires, the government takes
immediate charge of him if it is not the case in our country, then such a health
policy that allows someone to include his parents in the insurance can be
helpful," he said.

The health workers were discussing the new draft law on health insurance in the
country with members of Parliamentary Commission on Unity, Human Rights and
Fight against Genocide in Nyagatare District.

According to the Commission's vice president, Francoise Mukayisenga, the
lawmakers are moving across the country collecting views on how to design the
health insurance scheme and evaluate the status of the current one.

"There has been tremendous progress by Rwandans in adopting the health insurance
system, but service delivery in the sector is still a burden. This is what we
want to transform in the new draft law," she said.

She added that the commission would advocate for all hospitals to get adequate
medical staff to attend to the growing number of patients.

In recent days, residents had complained of poor service delivery at Nyagatare
Hospital. However, Mukayisenga blamed the poor services to inadequate staff in
many hospitals.

"If all hospitals have enough staff, such cases can end. This is what we are
looking into as lawmakers," she noted.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             444 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                            April 19, 2006 Wednesday
                                  ROP Edition

Officials deliver the gospel of health care;
Watch us, Mass. delegation tells other states

BYLINE: Kelli Gavant/patriot Ledger Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 536 words


Patriot Ledger Washington Bureau WASHINGTON â[#x20ac]" Massachusetts officials
and health care advocates came to the nationâ[#x20ac][TM]s capital yesterday in
an effort to show that the stateâ[#x20ac][TM]s new law that makes health
insurance mandatory could work in other states. At a health care forum in
Washington, the officials said questions remain on how the Massachusetts
legislation â[#x20ac]" the first of its kind in the country â[#x20ac]" will
actually work because the details havenâ[#x20ac][TM]t been fully worked out.
Thatâ[#x20ac][TM]s why other states might want to view the law â[#x20ac]oeless
as a policy blueprintâ[#x20ac] and more as a â[#x20ac]oepolitical
blueprint,â[#x20ac] said John McDonough, executive director of the Boston-based
activist group Health Care for All.

He stressed the importance of uniting groups behind the issue, including
conservatives, liberals, insurers, hospitals and business owners.
â[#x20ac]oeThis bill, at a minimum, will result in the expansion of affordable
coverage for literally hundreds of thousands of Massachusetts residents who now
donâ[#x20ac][TM]t have health insurance,â[#x20ac] McDonough said. Massachusetts
House Speaker Salvatore DiMasi said there are still a lot of unknowns about the
new law, which was signed last week by Gov. Mitt Romney. â[#x20ac]oeThis is only
the beginning of health care reform,â[#x20ac] DiMasi said. â[#x20ac]oeI can tell
you that if this legislation needs to be changed ... I will be there to work
with it, to change it, to make it better so it works.â[#x20ac] The law is
designed to provide coverage to 90 to 95 percent of the 550,000 uninsured people
in Massachusetts during the next three years. It has been compared to the law
that requires drivers to have auto insurance. It calls for the creation of
subsidized health insurance policies that will be administered by a
quasi-governmental â[#x20ac]oeconnectorâ[#x20ac] agency. That agency, which
still needs to be created, will determine the costs of premiums and co-payments
for poor and low-income residents. â[#x20ac]oeIt really does put the onus on
state government if they want to achieve this goal, to make sure that there is
in fact adequate funding available to make sure that it will be
implemented,â[#x20ac] McDonough said. Those who can afford insurance but neglect
to get it will face tax penalties. Philip Edmundson, chief executive officer of
William Gallagher Associates insurance brokerage in Boston, said the business
communities in other states may at first be resistant to legislation that
requires businesses to be more responsible for providing employee coverage.
Edmundson, who is also a selectman in Hingham and one of the leaders of the
Massachusetts Affordable Care Today campaign, said the costs associated with
caring for uninsured patients result in higher taxes and higher hospital and
insurance fees that are passed on to employers and consumers. â[#x20ac]oeThose
costs come right back to the business community,â[#x20ac] Edmundson said,
explaining how it gives the business community an incentive to be
â[#x20ac]oepart of the solution.â[#x20ac] Romney vetoed several items in the
bill, including a provision that would impose an annual $295-per-worker charge
on employers that do not provide employee coverage if they have more than 10
workers. â[#x20ac]oeWe intend, hopefully next Monday or Tuesday, to
overwhelmingly override those vetoes,â[#x20ac] DiMasi said.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Patriot Ledger


                             445 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                             March 3, 2005 Thursday

National Health Insurance Law rapped as 'unfinished work'

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 426 words


The National Health Insurance Law, introduced a decade ago, was a historic piece
of legislation but an "unfinished work," two experts on the legislation charged
this week.

The criticism came after the government failed to implement most of the
recommendations to complete health system reforms.

Prof. Gur Ofer, chairman of the board of the National Institute for Health
Policy and Health Services Research, and Gabi Bin Bin-Nun, a Health Ministry
director-general who helped write it, were among those discussing benefits and
shortcomings of the law, which established national health insurance for all
Israelis at the start of 1995.

They spoke at a conference in Tel Aviv organized on Tuesday and Wednesday by the
National Institute to mark the law's first decade.

The legislation granted a basic basket of health services, replacing a system in
which most of the health funds were either politically affiliated or were able
to exclude people who were not young or healthy enough.

Instead of membership fees set by each of the four public health funds, everyone
pays 4.8 percent of monthly income as health taxes (or less for the unemployed
or pensioners). This provides health care according to one's financial ability
to pay. The poor, chronically ill and minorities were most discriminated against
under the pre- law situation, they said.

Ofer and Bin-Nun noted that most of the recommendations of the Judicial
Commission on the Health System, headed by retired Supreme Court justice
Shoshana Netanyahu, were implemented with the law, but several critical
components were ignored.

These include the need to update the capitation formula for compensating
hospitals for treatment, giving additional weight to those who are elderly or
have chronic diseases. Other Netanyahu Commission recommendations that went by
the wayside were for the Health Ministry to transfer psychiatric services to the
health funds, to change the status of public hospitals to non-profit
corporations and to revamp the pricing system.

Experts said health care has become much more equitable, and health funds have
become much more efficient.

However, because the basket of health services provided by the insurers is not
updated automatically each year by a reasonable sum, ministry officials have to
make a pilgrimage to Treasury officials to beg them to expand the basket. But
due to the shortfall of funds, the growth and ageing of the population and the
increased costs of advanced medical technologies, the rate of out-of-pocket
payments by health fund members has grown tremendously.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             446 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           February 27, 2014 Thursday

Ark. Dept. of Health to host health insurance and education enrollment fair

LENGTH: 135  words


The Arkansas Department of Health will host an education and enrollment fair
Friday to assist Arkansas County residents with enrollment in health insurance
through the Health Insurance Marketplace.


The event will be held from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. at the Grand Prairie Center in
Stuttgart, Classroom A.
"We are pleased to host an education and enrollment fair for affordable health
insurance," Tess Brown said. "This is an opportunity for residents to learn
about the new health insurance law and get enrollment assistance."
The public is invited to attend to learn more about the health insurance options
available through the new Health Insurance Marketplace, get information about
the financial assistance now available to help pay insurance premiums and meet
with trained, licensed guides for enrollment assistance.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             447 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

Options for consumers When COBRA coverage runs out

BYLINE: By Staff, Kaiser Health News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


Q: I am a widow receiving medical coverage through COBRA and reimburse my
husband's former employer for the premium. Is it possible to continue "buying"
my coverage through the company once the maximum 36 months are over?

A: That's probably not going to be possible. Under the federal law known as
COBRA, you're entitled to continue coverage under your husband's former health
insurance plan for up to 36 months following his death. But according to
benefits consultants I asked, the company would be unlikely to continue that
coverage beyond the timeframe spelled out in the law because it could be
perceived as an arbitrary decision, and companies need to be consistent in their
coverage decisions. If you exhaust your COBRA coverage, however, and you're not
eligible for another group health plan, under federal law you're guaranteed
access to an individual insurance plan. Unfortunately, the coverage may be
expensive, especially if you have pre-existing medical conditions.Starting in
January , the situation should improve. You'll be able to go onto your state's
health insurance exchange and look for individual coverage there. Insurers won't
be allowed to turn you down because of medical conditions nor charge you a
higher rate, and depending on your income you may qualify for a premium tax
credit to make coverage more affordable.


Navigating Obamacare: Your guide to the Affordable Care ActEverything you need
to know about health careHow to find the best health insurance plan for
youUnderstanding your health insurance optionsHealth insurance: How to get the
most for your dollarAll about the Affordable Care Act (a.k.a., Obamacare)

Kaiser Health News is an editorially independent program of the Henry J. Kaiser
Family Foundation, a nonprofit, nonpartisan health policy research and
communication organization not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             448 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Montana Standard (Butte)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 6, 2013 Wednesday

Rate review authority for health insurance sails through House committee

BYLINE: Mike Dennison, The Montana Standard, Butte

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 454 words


Feb. 06--HELENA -- A bill giving the state insurance commissioner power to
review increases in health insurance premiums -- a proposal related to federal
health care reform -- easily won support of a House committee Wednesday.

The House Business and Labor Committee voted 19-1 to advance House Bill 87, a
key proposal this session from state Auditor Monica Lindeen, who is Montana's
insurance commissioner.

The lopsided vote is a big change from two years ago, when Republicans in the
Legislature killed a similar proposal because it was associated with
implementing the 2010 federal health care law, known as Obamacare.

This year, however, Lindeen's office agreed to remove from the bill any
reference to federal law or regulations.

"The argument last session was, 'This is Obamacare,'" said Jesse Laslovich,
Lindeen's chief counsel. With references to federal law out of the bill, "that
argument was taken away, and it became more of a Montana-made solution."

If the bill passes the Legislature and becomes law, Lindeen's office will review
health insurance premium increases to see whether they're "excessive,
inadequate, unjustified or unfairly discriminatory."

If the office determines the rate increase is any of those things, it will post
that information on its website.

The office won't have the power to force the insurer to lower its increase, but
it should have leverage to perhaps negotiate a lower rate for consumers,
officials from Lindeen's office said.

"Any insurer doesn't want to implement rates that the insurance commissioner's
office says are too high," said Jennifer McKee, spokeswoman for Lindeen.

HB87, sponsored by Rep. Jeff Welborn, R-Dillon, now heads to the House floor for
debate and votes.

Requiring health insurers to justify premium increases is part of the 2010
Affordable Care Act. States are supposed to review rate increases, but Montana
is one of only three states without such review authority.

Federal health officials started reviewing premium increases in Montana in 2011,
because Montana had no system of review. The state also had no power to do
anything about rates found to be unreasonable.

Laslovich said if the bill becomes law, Lindeen's office would hire an actuary
at a cost of about $200,000 a year to conduct the rate review of health
insurance premiums in Montana.

Adam Schafer, deputy commissioner under Lindeen, said he'd heard the bill might
face a close vote on the House committee, which is controlled 12-8 by
Republicans.

"It was encouraging to see such strong support for the legislation," he said
after the vote Wednesday morning.

___ (c)2013 The Montana Standard (Butte, Mont.) Visit The Montana Standard
(Butte, Mont.) at www.mtstandard.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130206-BU-Rate-review-authority-for-health-insurance
-sails-through-House-committee-0206-20130206

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BU


                      Copyright 2013 The Montana Standard


                             449 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            January 9, 1994, Sunday

SPECIAL REPORT - ISSUES '84 GEORGIANS SPEAK OUT HEALTH

BYLINE: By Anne Rochellreports; atlanta/journal/constitution; opinion; public;
health; care; reform; insurance; legislation; georgia; forecasts; united/states;
congress; costs; statistics

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Section H; Page 5

LENGTH: 635 words


Georgians want state to take the lead in reform, but legislators may move
slowly.

Lawmakers to keep eye on Washington

Although health care reform promises to be one of the most hotly debated topics
of the 1994 General Assembly, state lawmakers are not likely to forge sweeping
changes.

Nor, say legislators and advocates, will 1994 be the Year of the Environment in
Georgia.

Rep. E.M. "Buddy" Childers (D-Rome), chairman of the House Health and Ecology
Committee, said he doesn't expect any state action on health care reform, and
several members of the governor's Commission on Health Care Reform have
recommended that Georgia wait for Washington to act.

"It'd be irresponsible to move boldly ahead on health care reform when we don't
know what federal funding will be like," said Russ Toal, a commission member and
former head of the state Department of Medical Assistance.

However, first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is leading the president's push
for reform, said in a November trip to Atlanta that states that move ahead on
reform will have flexibility to enact local plans that differ from national
reform.

Some advocates think legislators who agree with Clinton may introduce bills
despite Gov. Zell Miller's desire to wait.

"The Legislature and the governor don't always get along," said Linda Lowe, an
activist for the poor with Georgia Legal Services. "It wouldn't surprise me if
somebody moves forward."

At least two health insurance bills will be debated, but neither is designed to
provide universal coverage. Rep. Jimmy Lord (D-Sandersville), chairman of the
House Insurance Committee, in September unveiled a health insurance plan that
would give control of some of the state's Medicaid programs to private insurance
companies.

The insurance companies that contracted with the government to provide Medicaid
would also be required to offer affordable plans to people who are ineligible
for Medicaid but unable to pay current premiums for private insurance.

Competing with Lord's bill will be Insurance Commissioner Tim Ryles's Georgia
Reform Insurance Plan, or GRIP, which would require insurance companies to offer
between three and 10 plans to anyone who wanted to buy them at lower prices than
now available. GRIP stalled in Lord's committee after passing the Senate last
year.

There is widespread support to create a state Department of Health, one of the
health care commission's recommendations. The new department would include
public health, medical assistance and other health-related departments that now
stand on their own or are within the Department of Human Resources. The Medical
Association of Georgia supports the proposal.

Environmental matters likely to be debated include a bill carried over from 1993
that would promote more effective water conservation.

Lawmakers may choose to take up the so-called "takings," or property rights
legislation, which would require governments to compensate landowners when they
impose environmental regulations that reduce property values. The proposal,
vehemently opposed by environmentalists, has been debated in many states.

Also potentially controversial is a bill to strengthen Georgia's Surface Mining
Act and require mining companies to do a better job of reclaiming thousands of
acres of mined-out land. The bill is expected to be introduced early in the
session, and it could touch off a bitter fight between environmentalists and
mining companies.

Sen. Jane Hemmer (D-Gainesville), who led a soil erosion and sedimentation study
committee formed by the 1993 Legislature, plans to introduce a package of bills
to enhance the Environmental Protection Division's enforcement abilities, as
well as impose stricter rules on developers.

Anne Rochell is a staff writer for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH940210254

GRAPHIC: Bar graph: THE ISSUE - THE UNINSURED The number of Georgians without
health insurance has increased more than 21 percent overall since 1988, compared
with a 15 percent increase nationwide. ................UNITED
STATES.............GEORGIA 1988............33.6 million............1.04 million
1989............34.4 million...............979,000 1990............35.7
million...............984,000 1991............36.3 million...............912,000
1992............38.5 million............1,26 million Source: Employee Benefits
Research Institute / Art Roche / special Chart: HEALTH REFORM Q: If there is
health reform, would you rather have it overseen by the federal government or
the state government? ........................TOTAL.......WHITES.......BLACKS
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.......22%..........16%..........41% STATE
GOVERNMENT.........69%..........74%..........50% NO
OPINION................9%..........10%..........10% Numbers have been rounded /
Art Roche / special Bar graph: TAKING THE PULSE Q: Do you approve or disapprove
of the way the Georgia state Legislature is handling health care issues?
APPROVE..........21% DISAPPROVE.......41% NO OPINION.......38% / Art Roche /
special

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                             450 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                          February 12, 1992, Wednesday

1992: THE GEORGIA LEGISDLATURE Health insurance revamp proposed State lawmaker's
plan would ensure universal coverage

BYLINE: By Rebecca Perl STAFF WRITERgeorgia; legislatures; legislation; health;
care; insurance; reform; taxation; costs; finances

SECTION: STATE NEWS; Section E; Page 3

LENGTH: 459 words


A Georgia legislator is seeking to revamp the state health-care system to
provide every resident with health insurance.

More than a million Georgians - three-quarters of them members of working
families - are now without health insurance.

The bill introduced by Rep. Rita Valenti, (D-Clarkston) would wipe out much of
the insurance industry, attempt to eliminate unnecessary medical procedures,
regulate what doctors could charge and impose a tax in place of the money people
now spend on health insurance.

The plan would cover doctor bills, hospital and clinic care, drugs, mental
health, dental, nursing-home care and other long-term care.

"Wouldn't it be wonderful if Georgia became known for universal health coverage
rather than for being ranked highest in infant mortality," said Ms. Valenti, a
nurse and health advocate.

Ms. Valenti acknowledges that her bill, which will encounter strong opposition
from the medical and the insurance lobbies, has little chance of passing this
year, but she says it is important to get the issue on the table.

Ms. Valenti proposes replacing the hundreds of different insurers that now exist
with one publicly funded system.

A federal study found that a similar system on the national level would save
enough money on administrative costs alone to cover the 35 million uninsured
Americans, with billions of dollars left over.

Nonetheless, Georgia Gov. Zell Miller has said in the past that, while he
acknowledges that health-care reform is a critical issue, it must be dealt with
on a national level.

But Ms. Valenti says a state that has among the shortest life- expectancy rates,
the highest premature death rates and the worst access to health care "can't
wait for Congress."

Priscilla Daves, a spokeswoman for the Medical Association of Georgia, said a
government-run plan is not the way to solve the system's ills, citing problems
with the Medicaid and Medicare systems, which are tremendously unpopular with
doctors.

Under Ms. Valenti's plan, consumers would be free to choose their doctors but
doctors' fees would be limited. There also would be financial incentives for
doctors to provide preventive and primary care, especially in poor and rural
areas. On the other hand, doctors who provide hospital- based specialty services
like heart surgery would be paid less than they now charge.

The purpose of this is to keep costs down by taking away incentives that
encourage overuse of surgeries - up to a third of some types of heart surgery
are considered unnecessary, according to leading medical journals.

Ms. Valenti also proposes asking voters if they support the idea of a
single-payer health care system. If the resolution passes an initiative would be
on the ballot in November.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: mug of Rita Valenti

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                             451 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Indian Banking News

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

National Restaurant Association Sees Success with Online Health Insurance
Exchange Notification Tool

LENGTH: 407  words


New Delhi, Sept. 24 -- The National Restaurant Association recently launched an
online health insurance exchange notification tool, developed for the NRA by
Genius Avenue, experts in online benefits enrollment and administration, to help
restaurateurs notify their employees about how to obtain health coverage in
2014.



The Notification Tool is available exclusively to NRA members to help them
comply with the health care law. Under the Affordable Care Act, all employers
covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act are required to give existing employees
notice about new government health insurance marketplaces by October 1st and new
employees within 14 days of their hire date.

The Notification Tool offers Association members online registration that guides
them through the law's required information process, lets them request a
customized portal where employees can access the FLSA-required notice, and
tracks the employees who have been notified.

"As changes under the health care law begin to unfold in the coming weeks and
months, the National Restaurant Association will continue to expand the
resources and tools we provide to help our members navigate the complexities of
the law," said Phil Kafarakis, the Association's chief innovations and member
advancement officer.

The Association will also be launching an online insurance and voluntary
benefits marketplace that integrates with the Notification Tool already in
place. The benefits marketplace, developed for the Association by Genius Avenue,
will be available in late 2013 and will allow employers to easily and
efficiently offer insurance benefits and savings to their employees.

"We're glad we can help the National Restaurant Association provide valuable
services and benefits to their members," said Ben Rozum, president of Genius
Avenue. "Over a thousand employers have already registered for the Notification
Tool, including numerous national chains."

NRA members can register for the Notification Tool by visiting
Restaurant.org/Notify.

The Notification Tool is part of the Association's Health Care Reform
Headquarters. The one-stop shop offers NRA members information about how the law
affects restaurant businesses, including a Health Care Law Primer that covers
key aspects of the law for restaurant employers. The Health Care Reform
Headquarters will later offer a marketplace to help restaurant employers and
employees shop for Affordable Care Act-compliant health plans.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             452 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 25, 2015 Thursday

Supreme Court upholds key ACA provision; 132,000 in Alabama to keep tax credits

BYLINE: Tim Lockette, tlockette@annistonstar.com, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 713 words


June 25--The U.S. Supreme Court upheld a key provision of the Affordable Care
Act in a ruling issued Thursday morning, allowing 132,000 Alabama residents to
keep subsidies to help them buy health insurance.

"If things had gone the other way, the coverage gap would have widened and
deepened," said Jim Carnes, policy director for Alabama Arise, an organization
that works on poverty-related issues. "It would have been chaos."

The nation's highest court ruled 6-3 Thursday against the plaintiffs in King v.
Burwell, a case that sought to end the tax credits the federal government offers
to help people pay for insurance under the Affordable Care Act.

The health reform law, also known as Obamacare, sought to bring down the price
of health insurance in part by requiring people to get health insurance or face
a tax penalty. People who don't have health insurance through an employer can
buy it through a government-run health insurance marketplace. To make that
insurance more affordable, the federal government kicked in a tax credit to
offset the cost for some customers.

That plan hit a snag in King v. Burwell. Thirty-four states opted not to set up
their own health care exchanges, requiring the federal government to step in and
create exchanges for them. The health care law itself said that the tax credits
were available to people who buy insurance through an exchange "established by
the State."

The plaintiffs in King v. Burwell -- Virginia residents who oppose Obamacare --
argued that the wording of the law prohibited tax credits in the 34 states with
a federally-run exchange. Had they won, the character of health reform would
have changed overnight, with millions of people seeing a sudden spike in their
health care costs -- and likely dropping their insurance altogether.

Writing for the majority in the high court's opinion, Chief Justice John Roberts
said that advocates for a strict interpretation of "established by the State"
had a strong case -- though precedent required the court to look closer at
phrases that seem untenable in light of the entire law.

"Congress passed the Affordable Care Act to improve health insurance markets,
not to destroy them," Roberts wrote. "If at all possible, we must interpret the
Act in a way that is consistent with the former, and avoids the latter."

In his dissent, Chief Justice Antonin Scalia accused the majority of
"interpretive jiggery-pokery."

"Words no longer have meaning if an Exchange that is not established by a State
is 'established by the State,'" Scalia wrote.

Republican leaders in Alabama came down on Scalia's side in the wake of the
ruling.

"There's a system that we could come up with in America that benefits our
citizens, but Obamacare is not it," state GOP chairwoman Terry Lathan said.
"When the government commands you to buy something as personal as health care,
that's too much government interference."

David Becker, who teaches health care economics at UAB, said red-state leaders
should probably be grateful King plaintiffs failed. An end to the subsidies
could have plunged Obamacare into disarray, but Becker said state and federal
lawmakers would have to deal first with constituents who lost their health
insurance.

"It would be crazy for a state legislature to go all in and say we're going to
make people suffer on principle," he said. "That's not how you win elections."

Rosemary Blackmon, spokeswoman for the Alabama Hospital Association, said that
if the subsidies had been struck down, hospitals would have faced significantly
higher costs.

"If people come to the hospital and they don't have health insurance, the
hospital just absorbs the cost," she said.

Carnes, of Alabama Arise, said his group had been preparing to push for state or
federal action to restore the subsidies had they been struck down.

"We couldn't abide thousands of people losing their health care coverage,"
Carnes said.

Becker, the health care economist, said the ruling further solidifies the status
of the Affordable Care Act.

"This is the second time the court has upheld it," he said. "If it's going to go
away, legislators are going to have to do that themselves."

___ (c)2015 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20150625-AO-Supreme-Court-upholds-key-ACA-provision-132,000-in-Alabama-to-keep-t
ax-credits-0625-20150625

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2015 The Anniston Star


                             453 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            October 21, 2011 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

Abortion limit passes Senate;
Insurance plans in the new federal exchanges would be barred from covering most
abortions.

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 347 words


Associated Press

The Wisconsin state Senate on Thursday passed a Republican bill to ban abortion
coverage from policies obtained through a health insurance exchange that is to
begin in 2014 under last year's landmark federal health care law.

Democratic opponents argued the move was designed create confusion about the
intent of how health care reform will operate in Wisconsin and infringed on the
rights of private health insurance providers to offer whatever services they
wish. The bill now heads to the state Assembly, which is also controlled by
Republicans.

Under the federal health care reform law passed last year, states are allowed to
prohibit abortions under the exchange. The exchange is to be a marketplace for
small businesses and individuals to shop for health insurance coverage. States
are required to either set up an exchange or face having one established for
them by the federal government.

Wisconsin law already prohibits the use of taxpayer money to pay for most
abortions except in cases of rape, incest or when the health of the mother is at
risk. Under the bill passed 17-16 along party lines, those same exceptions would
apply to abortions covered under policies sold through the exchange.

In other legislative action Thursday:

* The Senate passed a bill allowing student test scores to be used as a reason
to fire a teacher. The bill passed by Republicans on a party line 17-16 vote
would allow the scores to be used as one of multiple reasons to discipline or
fire a teacher. Test scores alone could not be used to discipline a teacher.

* The Assembly approved a bill that would allow crime victims to sue public
officials who harass them.

* The Assembly has passed five bills Republicans say will make it easier to
transport products on Wisconsin roads. One allows trucks transporting
agricultural products to be 15 percent heavier in December than what is
currently allowed. Another allows semis to carry larger loads of straw and hay.
Another increases the length of vehicles utilities and pipeline companies can
use on state roads without an over-length permit.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             454 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday
                             First Replate Edition

Suit says health care law would hurt states

BYLINE: Bob Keefe; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 626 words


WASHINGTON --- Requiring Georgians and other Americans to buy health insurance
is unconstitutional and would do irreparable damage to the states, Georgia and
19 other states maintain in their lawsuit seeking to overturn part of the new
federal health care law.

In a filing Friday, the states contend that the mandate to require individuals
to have health insurance would "devastate" state budgets and force them to
surrender "sovereign power," wrote Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum, who
is leading the 20-state consortium.

Georgia joined Florida and the other states in suing the federal government in
March, immediately after President Barack Obama signed the health care act into
law. Others plaintiffs include the National Federation of Independent Business
and several individuals. Virginia has filed a separate suit challenging the law.

Friday's filing was in response to an earlier motion by the Department of
Justice to dismiss the case. U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson is scheduled to
consider the motion to dismiss on Sept. 14 in Pensacola, Fla.

Under the health care overhaul, almost all Americans are required to get health
insurance, either by purchasing a policy on their own or getting one through
their employer or from the federal government.

Proponents of the "individual mandate" requirement of the law say it's necessary
because without it, taxpayers and the insured will continue to foot the bill for
the health care of those who don't have insurance. Also, proponents say, pushing
more people into insurance pools --- especially young, healthy people who might
not otherwise get insurance --- will help bring down health care costs for all
Americans.

Georgia Gov. Sonny Perdue and other opponents, however, say the law will add
hundreds of millions of dollars to the state's budget.

Perdue's office estimates the state will have to add 700,000 Georgians to
Medicaid rolls so that they can have health insurance.

Though the federal government is required to pay for the additional Medicaid
costs for the first several years, ultimately it could cost the state more than
$500 million per year as the federal government's portion declines, according to
Perdue's office.

Administrative costs and the addition of more state workers and their families
to the state's health insurance programs would cost Georgia tens of millions
more, according to Perdue's office.

The states' argument in their lawsuit centers on requiring individuals to have
health insurance in the first place.

In a statement, Perdue called the mandate "an affront to personal liberty."

"The focus of the suit is on the principle of whether or not Congress can
require you to purchase a product," Perdue spokesman Bert Brantley added.

Proponents of the heath care act say the governor's lawsuit is doing more harm
than good for Georgians.

"It's a political statement . . . and a distraction more than anything," said
Cindy Zeldin, executive director of the consumer health advocacy group Georgians
for a Healthy Future.

"The train has left the station --- health reform is happening," she added. "And
while we as a state are spending time and energy holding off on implementing
this while the lawsuit is going on, we're missing opportunities to move forward
to improve the health of the people of the state."

In a statement, Department of Justice spokeswoman Tracy Schmaler said the
department will continue "vigorously defending" the health care legislation.

"We believe there is clear and well-established legal precedent that Congress
acted within its constitutional authority in passing the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act of 2010," Schmaler said in an e-mail.

"We are confident that the health care reform statute is constitutional and that
we will ultimately prevail."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2010 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             455 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                    The Hill

                              July 23, 2010 Friday

Franken calls for tighter health insurance restrictions

BYLINE: By Julian Pecquet

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 410 words


A liberal grassroots group joined with Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) on Thursday to
call for tight restrictions on how health plans will be allowed to spend health
insurance premiums under the healthcare reform law.

"There is a new fight in healthcare reform - and if the insurance companies win,
we lose," Ethan Rome, executive director of Healthcare for America Now (HCAN),
said at a press conference unveiling a new report on the issue of medical loss
ratios. "If the $892 billion health insurance industry wins this new regulatory
fight, they'll be able to deny people's care and call that the administrative
cost of medical care under the new health insurance law. We cannot and will not
let that happen." Added Franken, who introduced the medical loss ratio as an
amendment during the healthcare reform debate: "I always said that this law
could have been renamed 'The Secretary of HHS Shall ... Bill of 2010' because
the reality is that the devil is really in the details." At issue is what kind
of spending will be considered healthcare expenses under the regulations being
drafted by the Department of Health and Human Services and the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners. Robert Zirkelbach, a spokesman for
America's Health Insurance Plans, called the report "a desperate attempt to
distract attention away from the fact that these regulations could put at risk
important services and benefits that improve the quality of care for millions of
patients." The healthcare reform law requires insurance plans to spend a minimum
portion of premiums - 85 percent in the large-group market and 80 percent in the
small-group and individual market - on care or rebate the difference to
consumers. As a result, the definition of what constitutes care is one of the
most controversial debates going on right now, and is worth hundreds of millions
of dollars to health plans, according to HCAN. HCAN joined unions and other
groups in a letter to lawmakers last week urging them to push back against
insurance company efforts to count certain expenses such as fraud prevention,
network management and provider credentialing as health expenses. The letter
also criticizes proposals to count costs of investigating, paying or denying
medical claims as medical care. And it urges that any exemption from the medical
loss-ratio requirements allowed because the provision would disrupt a state's
insurance market be as narrow and as limited in time as possible.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2010 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             456 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Stateline.org

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday

Governors split on Obama's Medicaid plan

BYLINE: Christine Vestal, Stateline.org

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


April 14--NO BLOCK GRANT: President Obama's commitment to preserving the current
Medicaid program was met with praise from Democratic governors and skepticism
from Republicans. Ina speech delivered yesterday at George Washington
University, Obama announced an administration plan to reduce Medicaid spending
without establishing a block grant system, as proposed by House Republicans.
Building on cost-efficiency measures outlined in the 2010 national health care
law, the administration aims to cut Medicaid and Medicare costs more than $400
billion by 2023 and an additional $1 trillion in the subsequent decade. The
administration's plan includes speeding generic drugs onto the market, working
with states to improve Medicaid efficiency and accountability and giving doctors
and hospitals incentives to better coordinate care.

EXCHANGE LAWS: Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley signed a bill this week
authorizing the creation of a state health insurance exchange, as required by
the 2010 health law. California and West Virginia are the only other states with
such laws so far. Last week, New Mexico's Republican Governor Susana Martinez
vetoed a bill that would have created an exchange, because she said the federal
government has not yet issued rules laying out how states should structure the
health insurance shopping Web sites.

MEDICAID BUDGETING: Republican Governor Jan Brewer's plan to help balance
Arizona's budget by dropping Medicaid coverage for about 138,000 adults is
headed to court. An article in Bloomberg Businessweek reports a public interest
attorney saying a lawsuit challenging Brewer's plan would be filed soon,
probably with the Arizona Supreme Court. At issue is a law approved by voters in
2000 that expanded Medicaid services for low-income adults. While cutting back
Medicaid funding in general, the budget Brewer signed last week restored
coverage for pancreas, liver, heart and lung transplants. The governor's denial
of organ transplant assistance last year grabbed national headlines and enraged
patient advocates and members of the legislature.

FRIEND OF THE COURT: Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster, a Democrat who
generally supports the national health care law, filed a brief against its
mandatory insurance provision in the Florida federal court case weighing the
law's constitutionality. Koster explained in his April 11 filing that the law's
requirement for most people to purchase health insurance conflicts with a 2010
voter-approved law in Missouri prohibiting enforcement of such a mandate. Koster
added that the insurance provision is severable from the federal law and that
all other sections of the law should be allowed to stand.

"Health Care Beat" provides a quick analysis of recent health news in state
government. Click here to find Stateline's daily roundup of health care news.

-- Contact Christine Vestal at cvestal@stateline.org

To see more of the Stateline.org, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
www.stateline.org/. Copyright (c) 2011, Stateline.org Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the content
services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110414-SH-Governors-split-on-Obama-s-Medicaid-plan-20110414

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                            Copyright 2011 Stateline


                             457 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     December 4, 1992, Friday, City Edition

Health insurers outline plan requiring coverage for all

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The health insurance industry, breaking from past practice, is calling for a
new federal law that would require coverage for all Americans.

The law would define an "essential" set of benefits that would pay for
catastrophic illness and primary and preventive care.

Here's how the plan would be financed: For employed Americans who continue  to
receive benefits beyond those deemed essential, anything beyond the value  of
the essential benefits package would be taxed as income. Those tax revenues
would help the government foot the bill to cover the poor. Thus, private
insurers and health providers would be able to give people below the poverty
line primary and preventive care.

The board of directors of the Health Insurance Association of America,
representing 270 commercial insurers, announced the proposal Thursday. On
Wednesday, the board had adopted a policy statement that said "the insurance
industry itself needs reform," and said the proposal will "jump-start
health-care reform."

Details of the insurers' proposal still need to be worked out. But the
cornerstone of the plan is to cut costs and provide that package of essential
benefits to all Americans.

That's a goal championed by President-elect Clinton, who vowed to introduce  his
own health-care reform plan within his first 100 days in office.

Many of the unresolved health-care issues are contentious. But Democrats  and
Republicans as well as business executives and labor unions agree that the
nation must do something to help the 35-million people who do not have health
insurance.

Carl J. Schramm, president of the association, said the new proposal was in  the
long-term financial interest of insurance companies.

For more than a year, the insurers have been denouncing proposals for a
government-run program of national health insurance that would minimize the
role of private insurers.

"This is probably the only way you preserve the private health insurance
industry," Schramm said. "It's plain-out enlightened self-interest."

The insurers endorsed the idea of universal coverage, mandated by federal  law,
along with new measures to control costs, including a larger role for the
government in supervising fees charged by doctors and hospitals.

They do not support Clinton's proposal for an annual limit on all health
spending, public and private.

The Health Insurance Association is one of many business groups that have
offered to cooperate with Clinton since his election. Many of these groups
previously opposed overhauling the health-care system, but now say they see
major changes as inevitable and want to help shape the results to their  liking.

"They've got to get out ahead . . . to avoid significant government
regulation," said James Buckley, a principal with KPMG Peat Marwick, a large
accounting and consulting company.

Showing they are willing to compromise in their proposal, insurers say they
would accept people with pre-existing conditions - everything from heart
attacks to AIDS. Such people typically are rejected for coverage because they
are considered expensive risks.

The plan also includes cost controls that would discourage excessive doctor
visits as well as unnecessary testing and hospitalizations.

Private and public studies indicate that 25 percent to 33 percent of all
medical procedures and tests performed are unneeded, said Stephen Young,
director of the association's New York office.

Some experts contend the United States is a leader in medical technology  partly
because of the tendency for insurance companies to pay for any  treatment
without regard to cost.

G. Alan Zimmerman, an analyst with Prudential Securities, speculated that  most
employer-sponsored health-care plans probably exceed the essential  benefits
package and therefore would be taxable.

"Are employees going to like this plan?" he asked. "I've never met  anyone who
likes higher taxes, but everyone has to recognize that if there's a  fairness to
higher taxes, then it's a tolerable tax."  - Information from the Associated
Press and the New York Times was used in  this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                             458 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday

US supreme court agrees to hear new challenge to Obama's healthcare law

LENGTH: 814  words

DATELINE: Milwaukee


Biodynamic Association has issued the following press release:

The US supreme court has agreed to hear a new challenge to the Affordable Care
Act that, if successful, could threaten the viability of President Obama's
landmark healthcare reforms two years after the justices narrowly upheld the
heart of the law.

The case centers on federal tax subsidies designed to make healthcare affordable
for millions of middle-and-low-income Americans. Challengers argue that a
majority of the premium tax credits are illegal.

At issue is whether the healthcare law's subsidies program extends to consumers
who purchase health insurance through virtual marketplaces, known as exchanges,
formed by the federal government.

Taken literally, the law states that health insurance subsidies can only be
given through an "exchange established by the State". A victory for the
challengers would make health insurance premiums more expensive for the nearly
five million Americans who buy coverage under the 34 federally-run exchanges.

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which wrote the rules for how the subsidies
are applied, said health insurance tax credits are allowed for all eligible
consumers, regardless of whether they buy their health insurance through an
exchange operated by the state or one operated by the federal government.

Timothy Jost, an expert on US health law, said a ruling against the
administration could imperil the health care law, but said he believes such a
decision is unlikely.

"If the supreme court decides for the plaintiffs based on really a very crabbed
and limited reading of the statute, millions of Americans could lose access to
health insurance," Jost said.

White House press secretary Josh Earnest said the lawsuits were
politically-motivated, and said the administration is confident the court will
recognize the congressional intent behind the law is for qualifying customers,
regardless of where they live, to receive the financial assistance they need.

"These lawsuits won't stand in the way of the Affordable Care Act and the
millions of Americans who can now afford health insurance because of it. We are
confident that the financial help afforded millions of Americans was the intent
of the law and it is working as Congress designed," Earnest said in a statement
on Friday.

The Affordable Care Act was passed on a party-line vote in 2012, and since then,
Republicans have tried at least 50 times to repeal or significantly roll back
the law.

But what Congress intended when drafting the law is still up for debate,
according to Kip Piper, a healthcare consultant. He said that at the time the
law was first introduced, there were some who believed offering subsidies would
galvanise the states to set up the exchange, and that the federally-operated
exchanges were designed as a fall-back plan.

"There were certainly people that read it literally as what it said, and
interpreted it as a big financial incentive and political incentive for states
to participate, and to build the exchanges," he said. "But after a while, nobody
paid any attention to it." Now, the majority of states are served by federally
facilitated exchanges.

In the 2012 decision, chief justice John Roberts, sided with the four liberal
judges in favor of upholding the law, while the four conservative judges held
that the law is "invalid in its entirety". At least four justices must agree
that a case deserves review before the court takes decided to hear it. The
justices, as is normal, did not say why they agreed to take up the case, or who
supported the decision to take it up.

In July, a panel of federal appeals court judges sitting in Washington DC,
agreed with the challengers, saying the IRS regulations are not permissible
under the Affordable Care Act as it is currently written. The DC court held that
under the law, tax credits can be applied only in the 16 states that have set up
their own exchanges.

Later that day, however, the federal appeals court for the fourth circuit, based
in Richmond, Virginia, came to the opposite conclusion, ruling that the wording
in the statute is ambiguous and as such open to multiple interpretations. This
set up a split, that was then eliminated when the full federal appeals court in
DC threw out the panel's ruling.

A writer at Scotusblog said the court's decision to take up the case is a bad
sign for the healthcare law.

"What's troubling is that four justices apparently think - or at least are
inclined to think - that King was wrongly decided," Nicholas Bagley wrote on
Friday. "The challengers urged the Court to intervene now in order to resolve
"uncertainty" about the availability of federal tax credits. In the absence of a
split, however, the only source of uncertainty is how the supreme court might
eventually rule."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             459 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday

US supreme court agrees to hear new challenge to Obama's healthcare law

LENGTH: 814  words

DATELINE: Milwaukee


Biodynamic Association has issued the following press release:

The US supreme court has agreed to hear a new challenge to the Affordable Care
Act that, if successful, could threaten the viability of President Obama's
landmark healthcare reforms two years after the justices narrowly upheld the
heart of the law.

The case centers on federal tax subsidies designed to make healthcare affordable
for millions of middle-and-low-income Americans. Challengers argue that a
majority of the premium tax credits are illegal.

At issue is whether the healthcare law's subsidies program extends to consumers
who purchase health insurance through virtual marketplaces, known as exchanges,
formed by the federal government.

Taken literally, the law states that health insurance subsidies can only be
given through an "exchange established by the State". A victory for the
challengers would make health insurance premiums more expensive for the nearly
five million Americans who buy coverage under the 34 federally-run exchanges.

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which wrote the rules for how the subsidies
are applied, said health insurance tax credits are allowed for all eligible
consumers, regardless of whether they buy their health insurance through an
exchange operated by the state or one operated by the federal government.

Timothy Jost, an expert on US health law, said a ruling against the
administration could imperil the health care law, but said he believes such a
decision is unlikely.

"If the supreme court decides for the plaintiffs based on really a very crabbed
and limited reading of the statute, millions of Americans could lose access to
health insurance," Jost said.

White House press secretary Josh Earnest said the lawsuits were
politically-motivated, and said the administration is confident the court will
recognize the congressional intent behind the law is for qualifying customers,
regardless of where they live, to receive the financial assistance they need.

"These lawsuits won't stand in the way of the Affordable Care Act and the
millions of Americans who can now afford health insurance because of it. We are
confident that the financial help afforded millions of Americans was the intent
of the law and it is working as Congress designed," Earnest said in a statement
on Friday.

The Affordable Care Act was passed on a party-line vote in 2012, and since then,
Republicans have tried at least 50 times to repeal or significantly roll back
the law.

But what Congress intended when drafting the law is still up for debate,
according to Kip Piper, a healthcare consultant. He said that at the time the
law was first introduced, there were some who believed offering subsidies would
galvanise the states to set up the exchange, and that the federally-operated
exchanges were designed as a fall-back plan.

"There were certainly people that read it literally as what it said, and
interpreted it as a big financial incentive and political incentive for states
to participate, and to build the exchanges," he said. "But after a while, nobody
paid any attention to it." Now, the majority of states are served by federally
facilitated exchanges.

In the 2012 decision, chief justice John Roberts, sided with the four liberal
judges in favor of upholding the law, while the four conservative judges held
that the law is "invalid in its entirety". At least four justices must agree
that a case deserves review before the court takes decided to hear it. The
justices, as is normal, did not say why they agreed to take up the case, or who
supported the decision to take it up.

In July, a panel of federal appeals court judges sitting in Washington DC,
agreed with the challengers, saying the IRS regulations are not permissible
under the Affordable Care Act as it is currently written. The DC court held that
under the law, tax credits can be applied only in the 16 states that have set up
their own exchanges.

Later that day, however, the federal appeals court for the fourth circuit, based
in Richmond, Virginia, came to the opposite conclusion, ruling that the wording
in the statute is ambiguous and as such open to multiple interpretations. This
set up a split, that was then eliminated when the full federal appeals court in
DC threw out the panel's ruling.

A writer at Scotusblog said the court's decision to take up the case is a bad
sign for the healthcare law.

"What's troubling is that four justices apparently think - or at least are
inclined to think - that King was wrongly decided," Nicholas Bagley wrote on
Friday. "The challengers urged the Court to intervene now in order to resolve
"uncertainty" about the availability of federal tax credits. In the absence of a
split, however, the only source of uncertainty is how the supreme court might
eventually rule."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             460 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Citizen (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 7, 2013 Sunday

Enrollment in new health care exchanges starts this fall

BYLINE: Charles Oliver, The Daily Citizen, Dalton, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1187 words


July 07--In less than three months, enrollment begins in the new health care
exchanges created by the  Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, commonly
known as Obamacare. Yet many Americans remain confused and uninformed about the
law.

For instance, a Princeton Survey Research Associates International poll released
in June found that 64 percent of those without health insurance don't know if
they will purchase it before Jan. 1, 2014. That's when the law requires all
Americans to have health insurance or pay financial penalties. A June Gallup
poll showed 43 percent of Americans don't know that they will be required to
have health insurance starting next year.

Dalton's David Walters said he has insurance through his employer. But he said
he still has questions about how the law will work.

"I really don't understand how it will affect me," he said.

The law has the potential to affect just about everyone, but some of the first
people to feel the impact will be those who currently don't have health
insurance. Starting Oct. 1 and continuing through March 30, 2014, they'll have
the opportunity to sign up for new health care exchanges where they can purchase
health insurance, possibly with federal subsidies to make it more affordable,
from companies that sign up to sell health insurance.

All plans sold on these exchanges must cover some benefits the federal
government has declared to be essential, such as maternity and newborn care,
mental health and substance abuse, and pediatric vision and dental. Those states
that set up their own exchanges may also add to those benefits. Georgia did not
set up a health care exchange, but all benefits currently mandated by state law
will also apply to health insurance plans sold on the federal exchange in
Georgia.

The plans can fall within four levels: platinum, gold, silver and bronze. Bronze
plans will have the least generous benefits, with the customer paying more out
of pocket but also paying lower premiums. Platinum will have the most generous
benefits, with the consumer paying less out of pocket but higher premiums.

Aetna, Alliant Health Plans, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Coventry
Health Care, Humana, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and Peach State have signed
up to sell insurance on the federal exchange. But they do not necessarily have
to sell in all regions of the state.

So who is eligible to buy insurance on these exchanges? Anyone who is an
American citizen or legal resident and who isn't incarcerated.

"Anybody can go to the exchange and buy insurance," said Al Ertel, chief
operating officer of Alliant Health Plans, a Dalton-based not-for-profit
provider of health insurance.

"Those who are eligible for subsidies are those who don't have access to
coverage under Medicare, Medicaid, military plans or employer-provided plans
that meet minimum coverage standards and are affordable," he said.

Employees may pay up to 9.5 percent on their W-2 income for their share of
health insurance and it will be considered affordable.

The Obama administration announced last week that it will not enforce a
provision of the law that requires companies with 50 or more employees to
provide health insurance for workers until 2015. That provision was also set to
begin Jan. 1, 2014. The federal government will also not require companies to
report whether they offer insurance until 2015, so it is not immediately clear
how the government will determine who is eligible for subsidies because their
employers don't offer affordable health insurance.

To be eligible for health insurance subsidies, individuals and families must
also meet certain income standards.

"The financial assistance, or premium tax credit, will be available to anyone
whose income is below 400 percent of the federal poverty level and above 138
percent of the poverty level if the state expanded its Medicaid coverage. If a
state has not expanded Medicaid coverage it goes down to 100 percent of the
federal poverty level," said Jennifer Sullivan, director of best practices at
Enroll America, a nonpartisan, national nonprofit that is trying to make sure as
many Americans as possible connect with the new health care options.

Officials in Georgia declined to expand the state's Medicaid coverage, citing
potential long-term costs. The federal poverty level depends upon family size.
It's currently about $11,000 for a single person and around $23,550 for a family
of four.

The amount of the subsidy will be based on what it would cost that person or
family to buy the second-lowest cost silver plan available to them. Those who
get the subsidies won't get a check from the government. The subsidy will be
sent to the company they choose.

The Princeton Survey poll found that 58 percent of the uninsured said they don't
know if they qualify for federal subsidies to buy health insurance that the law
creates.

Georgia and 26 other states declined to set up a health care exchange and that
could prove a problem for residents of those states.

The law says the subsidies are available "through an exchange established by the
state." But the IRS has interpreted the law to mean that the subsidies will also
be available to those in the federal exchange. Attorneys general for some of the
states that declined to set up exchanges have challenged that IRS interpretation
in court. If they prevail, residents of Georgia and other states without an
exchange will not be eligible for health care insurance subsidies.

So how will people sign up for these exchanges?

They can sign up online at www.healthcare.gov. The site has a great deal of
information about the exchanges, the subsidies and how they will work. Thanks to
a new health care data hub that allows federal agencies such as the IRS, Health
and Human Services, the Social Security Administration and Homeland Security to
share information, the site is supposed to be able immediately to determine who
is eligible for a subsidy and how much that subsidy will be.

In addition, the law will set up "navigators," groups that will reach out to
their communities about the law and the options it makes available.

"They will do education and they will answer questions from consumers so the
consumers can decide which plans to enroll in," Sullivan said.

The Northwest Georgia Healthcare Partnership, Georgia Mountains Health and
Primary Healthcare Centers have applied in partnership for one of the federal
grants to act as navigators in northwest Georgia.

"The awards will be announced in mid August, and then we will go through the
training necessary to become a navigator," said Ali Whittier, health promotion
and marketing director at the Healthcare Partnership.

"They are targeting the uninsured under 65 as well as rural populations and
people with limited English proficiency," Whittier said.

Whittier said the latest numbers show about 20 percent of Whitfield County
residents don't have any form of health coverage and about 24 percent of Murray
County residents don't have health insurance.

___ (c)2013 The Daily Citizen (Dalton, Ga.) Visit The Daily Citizen (Dalton,
Ga.) at daltondailycitizen.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130707-DW-Enrollment-in-new-health-care-exchanges-starts-this-fall-0707-201307
07

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DW


                        Copyright 2013 The Daily Citizen


                             461 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            July 11, 2012 Wednesday

More Retirees Sue Over Premiums

BYLINE: Doug Finke; State Capitol Bureau, DOUG.FINKE@SJ-R.COM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 461 words


Five retired state employees filed suit in Sangamon County on Tuesday, seeking
to overturn a new law requiring all retirees to begin paying premiums for their
state health insurance.

All five - Roger Kanerva, Susan Haury, Mary Frances Welters, Colleen Votsmier
and Neil Hoover - retired with 20 or more years of state service. All five are
members of the State Employees Retirement System.

SERS members who retired with 20 or more years of service have been entitled to
premium-free state health insurance, but a law Gov. Pat Quinn signed June 21
does away with that benefit.

Under the new law, the Department of Central Management Services is to determine
annually what retirees will pay for their state health insurance. When the bill
was passed, supporters said the rates would vary, with people collecting larger
pensions paying more than those with smaller pensions.

The retirees' suit argues that the law "gives the director no intelligible
standards" to determine the level of contributions and, "as such, is an invalid
delegation of legislative authority to an administrative agency or officer."

The lawsuit says the law violates the pensions clause of the Illinois
Constitution, which prohibits the diminishment of pension benefits once they are
earned.

The suit also says the new law violates the contracts clause of the constitution
because state law provided for premium-free health insurance after 20 years as a
"term and condition of employment" for the five plaintiffs.

One count in the complaint was brought specifically by Kanerva and Hoover, both
of whom retired as part of the 2002 early retirement incentive program.

The lawsuit says the state promised premium-free health and dental insurance for
life to early retirees and that Kanerva and Hoover relied on that promise when
they decided to take early retirement.

The lawsuit seeks class-action status on behalf of an estimated 10,000 merit
compensation employees who retired with at least 20 years of service. Merit comp
employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements.

"The reason for that is only because the union may have some issues that arise
from their collective bargaining agreements, and we don't want to get involved
in those," said Springfield attorney John Myers, who is representing the
employees along with Don Craven. "We limited it to people whose rights are not
affected by collective bargaining agreements."

The lawsuit also seeks creation of a subclass of about 5,000 people who retired
under the early retirement incentive.

Retired state appellate justice Gordon Maag also has filed suit challenging the
health insurance premiums. Maag contends the law represents an unconstitutional
diminishment of retirement benefits.

Doug Finke can be reached at 788-1527.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Former workers say they are entitled to free insurance under agreement
with state, which for some was part of early retirement agreement

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             462 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Deming Headlight (New Mexico)

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday

Two Cents: Gov. Martinez repeals health care law

BYLINE: For the Headlight

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 650 words


Gov. Susana Martinez is joining 28 other Republican governors signing a letter
calling for a full repeal of the federal health care law.

It appears that Martinez' fear of the new federal law's mandate for everyone to
have insurance coverage means they don't want to add any people to Medicaid in
2014 when the full law takes effect.

The new Health care overhaul will improve access to quality health care for all
Americans. The new law will bring down health care costs, invest in prevention
and wellness, and give individuals and families more control over their own
care.

Insurance discrimination will be banned, so people who have been sick can't be
excluded from coverage or charged higher premiums. Women will no longer have to
pay higher premiums because of their gender.

More than 70 percent of all Americans, Republican and Democrat want this Health
Care program left alone to give them and theirs a chance for good health care
services. The 30 percent that are trying to stop it are the insurance companies,
big business and some small businesses. These are the people who feed the
Republican machine all the money they need to win elections.

A new health insurance marketplace will be created in 2014. The Exchanges will
guarantee that all people have a choice for quality, affordable health insurance
even if you lose your job, make a job switch, move to another state, or illness
occurs. The new law also provides tax credits to help more Americans pay for
insurance.

The Affordable Care Act helps small businesses afford the cost of covering their
employees. If a business has fewer than 25 employees and provides, or wants to
provide health insurance you may qualify for a small business tax credit of up
to 35 percent to offset the cost of your insurance. On Jan. 1, 2014, this rate
increases to 50 percent.

This plan will help offset the cost of employer-based retiree health plans, the
new law creates a program to preserve those plans and help people who retire
before age 65 get the affordable care they need.

The new law provides affordable health insurance through a transitional
high-risk pool program for people without insurance due to a pre-existing
condition. Insurance companies will be prohibited from denying coverage due to a
pre-existing condition for children starting in September, and for adults in
2014.

Insurance companies will be banned from establishing lifetime limits on your
coverage, and use of annual limits will be limited starting in September 2010.

Young people up to age 26 can remain on their parents' health insurance policy
starting in September 2010.

Martinez said, "Sure, there are reasons for there to be health care reform and
parts of it are good, but to have Medicaid and to have it become so expensive
right now that it doesn't last beyond us, then we have really ignored a future
population," she said.

A conservative estimate of the number of adults in the state who will now become
eligible for Medicaid is 100,000, said Katie Falls, secretary of the New Mexico
Human Services Department.

In 2014, the federal government will pay 100 percent of the cost of new Medicaid
enrollees. That declines to 95 percent in 2018 and 2019 and to 90 percent after
that. Currently, the federal government pays 75 percent of the cost of Medicaid,
sending the state 75 cents for every 25 cents spent by the state.

The State pays for any and all emergency room services and follow-up procedures,
office calls, etc. If the people that normally use these services were insured,
that cost would be used to negate any increases the State may incur.

We New Mexicans demand that Governor Martinez rescind her decision to join 28
other Republican Governors around the country signing a letter to Repeal Health
Care reform!! We need it, we want it and we are in a majority in this State and
don't you forget it when you go to the polls in 2012!!!!

Roger Charlet is a Deming resident.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2011 Deming Headlight, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                             463 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 30, 2014 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

OBAMACARE'S OK FOR CONSERVATIVES

BYLINE: Lanhee Chen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 876 words


Last Sunday marked the fourth anniversary of the signing of Obamacare and
tomorrow is the first deadline for individuals to sign up, which makes it a good
time to figure out where the law stands. It's easy to dismiss it as a failure.
But here's something conservatives should begin to wrap their heads around: For
all of our consternation, Obamacare may be a blessing in disguise.

That said, the law still needs to be repealed, because it fails to deal with the
fundamental issue of health costs, represents a huge federal overreach into
health care and raises taxes to support the creation of a huge new entitlement.
But Obamacare also makes it easier, from a political and a policy perspective,
to move toward the kind of health-care reforms for which conservatives have long
argued.

A few concepts animate conservative efforts to reform the American health-care
system. Core among them is the notion that the current tax treatment of health
insurance - where individuals acquiring insurance through an employer enjoy
significant tax advantages over those acquiring insurance on their own - is
problematic. It drives up health costs and spending, prevents the creation of a
true marketplace, and inhibits the portability of health coverage.

Many conservative health policy analysts will tell you that the ideal
health-care system is one where individuals effectively "own" their health
insurance policies, are free to carry that coverage from job to job, have a
variety of insurance products to choose from and have greater control over and
more information about the cost and quality of the health care they receive.

The biggest impediment to moving toward this ideal continues to be a tax code
that sustains the employer-sponsored health insurance system. Any changes to
that system have been fraught with political peril, because they would probably
result in some displacement of individuals from their existing
employer-sponsored plans.

That's where Obamacare comes in. Beginning in 2018, employers offering
high-value or "Cadillac" health insurance plans will be subject to a 40 percent
excise tax, imposed on the value of health insurance benefits exceeding $10,200
a year for individual coverage and $27,500 a year for family coverage.

Employers will probably respond to this tax by paring back benefits to avoid it,
or terminating coverage entirely and instead offering a defined contribution
toward an employee's individual health insurance purchase. Either way, the
current system of unlimited tax benefits for employer-sponsored health insurance
is ending soon - thanks to Obamacare.

This is good news for conservatives. Every serious Republican alternative to the
law seeks to move away from the existing unlimited tax exclusion for
employer-sponsored health insurance and toward a system where that tax benefit
is either capped or scrapped entirely, in favor of tax deductions or credits to
help people buy insurance on their own.

That means Democrats will have a tough time attacking future changes to the tax
treatment of health care, because Obamacare acknowledges that the current tax
treatment is problematic. The Cadillac tax on some plans is part of the way that
the law attempts to pay for the coverage subsidies it provides to low and
middle-income Americans. In much the same way, conservatives want to change the
tax treatment of health insurance to help individuals buy their own plans in a
vibrant marketplace.

Also helpful to conservatives is the way Obamacare disrupts insurance markets
and forces people out of their current coverage. The Congressional Budget Office
has estimated that 7 million fewer Americans a year will have employer-sponsored
coverage in 2018, partly due to the Cadillac tax but also because some employers
will opt to stop offering health benefits. That limits Democrats' ability to
argue that Republican alternatives separate people from the coverage they
already have - because it's clear that Obamacare does, too.

Even the law's health insurance exchanges, much maligned by many conservatives,
lay the groundwork for a post-Obamacare conservative reform to blossom. The
exchanges under the law are, after all, a highly regulated set of marketplaces,
where only certain plans offering certain benefits may be offered at a certain
price. They are also a mechanism through which Obamacare distributes tax credits
to help people buy health coverage, and a place to create competition between
private plans.

Thus, the infrastructure that conservatives would need to administer a tax
subsidy to individuals for the purchase of health insurance is already there
because of Obamacare. All that's left now is to simplify the tax subsidy that's
provided and remove Obamacare's regulatory burdens, which inhibit greater
competition and affordability in the marketplace.

Of course, if conservatives are to accomplish any of these reforms, the U.S.
will need to elect a sympathetic president and Congress. Thus, the road to
replacing Obamacare with something better remains difficult.

So while it's easy for conservatives to say after four years that there's
nothing redeeming about Obamacare, that's not entirely true: If we ever get to
real health-care reform, it may be thanks in part to President Barack Obama and
Obamacare.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Lanhee Chen, a research fellow at Stanford University's Hoover
Institution and adviser to several Republican campaigns, is a columnist for
Bloomberg View. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             464 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    November 29, 1991, Friday, FINAL EDITION

OHIP limits on foreign bills aren't legal ex-counsel says

BYLINE: By Joseph Hall TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 473 words


   Ontario residents should expect the provincial health insurance plan to pay
the bulk of their out-of-country medical expenses despite a new policy limiting
foreign coverage, OHIP's former legal counsel says.

Perry Brodkin, who was OHIP's lawyer for 17 years prior to 1990, says a new
ministry policy limiting payments to $400 a day on a traveller's foreign
hospital bill can be easily circumvented.

So, too, can the same policy's limit of $200 a day for out-of-country elective
treatment where similar procedures exist in Ontario, he said.

Prior to the new policy, the Ontario Health Insurance Plan would usually pay 100
per cent of the former and 75 per cent of the latter.

The change "has no status in law," Brodkin said of New Democratic Health
Minister Frances Lankin's Oct. 1 policy.

"And if OHIP won't pay for it (medical expenses), then the person has legal
rights and remedies with respect to that decision."

Brodkin said the original health insurance law has not been altered since 1972
and does not put limits on the amount of money or percentage of foreign hospital
bills OHIP should pay.

"What this means is that since the new policy has not been enshrined in the laws
of the province, then the Health Services Appeals Board is entitled to disregard
or ignore the policy," he said.

"There were no dollar limits or percentage limits placed in the original
legislation because these cases were meant to be dealt with on a case-by-case
basis and it's a fundamental principle of justice that people get their day in
court."

"What should be expected is a fair hearing (before the board) . . . and if the
case is properly presented, then there is an excellent chance of success," says
Brodkin, who is now a volunteer bar examination instructor with the Law Society
of Upper Canada.

He left OHIP to avoid a transfer from Toronto to new offices in Kingston.

Brodkin said the thousands of Canadians flying south this winter need not pay
the "astronomical" private health insurance rates to augment their OHIP
coverage.

Gerry Burns, a Blue Cross official, has warned vacationers to ask tough
questions when buying private health insurance and to clarify every aspect of
the coverage.

At issue are the policies' exemptions, which could mean that people with a
previous medical condition such as diabetes or heart disease might find
themselves without coverage and having to pay U.S. hospitals cash up front in a
related medical emergency.

They would then have to apply to the appeals board for repayment.

An official with the board said no one has contested a claim since the new
policy was issued and she could not say which way the panel would rule.

Health ministry legal specialists could not be reached for comment yesterday.
Health; insurance; Ontario; legislation; policy

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             465 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday

Dubai extends deadline for health insurance

BYLINE: Nadeem Hanif

LENGTH: 403  words


Nadeem Hanif

DUBAI// The deadline for applications for health insurance has been extended
into the new year, Dubai Health Authority has announced.

The authority said it had made the decision due to a flood of customers applying
to insurance companies in the last few days, and in response to those who had
not been able to get insured in time due to unforeseen circumstances. It was not
clear how long the extension would last.

"More than four million - 98 per cent - of Dubai residents are now covered in
the Dubai health insurance," said Dr Haidar Al Yousuf, Director of Health
Funding at DHA.

The Dubai Health Insurance Law No 11 of 2013 was adopted following directives
from Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid, Vice President and Ruler of Dubai.

According to the law, which came into effect in January 2014, it is the legal
responsibility for every sponsor to provide an essential insurance package --
which costs between Dh550 and Dh700 -- so that those with salaries under Dh4,000
receive adequate cover.

Insurance companies are working to cope with demand from employers and
individuals looking for cover, said Dr Al Yousuf. He added that there has also
been a large number of online transactions.

The DHA launched an awareness campaign in October aimed at encouraging companies
with fewer than 100 employees to adopt mandatory health insurance cover.

This was the final phase of the initiative which had earlier focused on larger
scale businesses.

There are an estimated 135,000 such companies in the emirate.

As such these firms must now present health insurance certificates together with
other required documentation for visa renewals.

New safeguards have also been put in place to prevent health insurance abuse.

These will be added to the emirate's health insurance system and will be
implemented ahead of fines for violations beginning next year.

The authority plans to implement a system that will link payment to quality,
with a view to prevent health insurance fraud and abuse.

At the moment, 85 per cent of people in Dubai have health insurance.

And so far, 99 per cent of employees at the 300 large companies and the 3,000 to
4,000 medium-sized businesses in the emirate benefit from health coverage.

An awareness campaign that also covered local government authorities and some
private-sector companies were also targeted in an intensive campaign in October
aimed at promoting the health insurance system.

nhanif@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2016 Abu Dhabi Media Company
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             466 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Crain's Cleveland Business

                                 April 25, 1994

EFFORTS TO INSURE PARTNERS SLOW HERE

BYLINE: CAROL WOLF

SECTION: News; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 480 words


Nationally, a slow-moving trend is underway in which businesses offer health
insurance and other benefits to unmarried domestic partners of their employees.

In Ohio, the trend is moving the other way due to the state's abolishment of
common law marriage.

Companies such as Microsoft Inc., Apple Computer Inc., Viacom Inc. and Levi
Strauss and Co. - all of which are based outside Ohio - provide health insurance
benefits for their employees' non-married heterosexual or homosexual partners.

State law in Ohio had allowed for such a practice for many years, based on the
principle of common law marriage. Insurance companies were mandated by state law
to treat common law marriages like any other marriage. That meant providing
health insurance for common law marriage partners if the same benefit also was
provided to partners in a ''regular" marriage.

But since 1991, when Ohio abolished common law marriages, many local insurance
companies have been unwilling to provide unmarried partners with health
insurance benefits. Some cases that had been covered under a grandfather clause
when the practice was abolished have just about expired.

Terri Leist, communications chief of the Ohio Department of Insurance in
Columbus, said that after common law marriage was abolished, few Ohio insurance
companies continued to offer domestic partner benefits. Larger, self-insured
employers would be the mostly likely to offer the domestic partner option, she
said.

''After common law marriages were abolished, employers were no longer mandated
to provide the benefit," she said. ''It's now up to the employer to make that
decision and there hasn't been any rush to do so."

Thomas R. Brown, a spokesman for the Cleveland branch of The Wyatt Co., a
Washington, D.C., benefits consulting firm, said a 1993 survey done by his
company showed that nationally only 2.9% offered domestic partner health
benefits. Wyatt noted that the trend is occurring, but acknowledged that it's
happening at a snail's pace.

In the North Central region, which includes Ohio, only 1.4% of companies
surveyed offered benefits for unmarried partners.

''When common law marriages were abolished, we stopped offering the benefit,"
said Linda Somers, director of healthcare management at Prudential Health Care
Plan in Cleveland. ''The few common law marriages we were covering were
grandfathered in for a specified time period."

Prudential is based in Roseland, N.J., and has 35,000 members in Greater
Cleveland, she said.

Loretta Mikolaj, director of the Gay/Lesbian Rights project at the Cleveland
branch of the American Civil Liberties Union, said her organization can't offer
much encouragement when it receives calls about domestic partner insurance.

''The cases that have gone to court on the subject have not turned out well for
those wanting the benefits," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Crain Communications Inc.


                             467 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 12, 1992, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Universal Health Care Plan Is Goal of Law in Vermont

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1020 words

DATELINE: BENNINGTON, Vt., May 11


Gov. Howard Dean, the only Governor who is a doctor, signed a law here today
that sets in motion a plan to give Vermont universal health care by 1995.

The law is one of the more ambitious in a series of recent efforts by states to
tackle the problems of runaway medical costs and the increasing numbers of
uninsured. Oregon, Minnesota and Florida have also passed comprehensive health
insurance plans, as states have begun to act in the absence of Federal
initiatives.

The Vermont law creates a state agency, the Health Care Authority, that will
have the power to bargain for health insurance for the state's residents, using
what Governor Dean called "enormous leverage" to gain better coverage at lower
rates.

Final Decisions in 1994

The agency will draw up proposals on how to pay for universal health care by
next year. And it will provide detailed studies to the Legislature on whether
the state should rely on private insurance companies or should follow the
example of Canada and insure itself. The Legislature must decide on the final
shape of the new system in late 1994.

"This is an incredibly exciting moment that should make all Vermonters proud,"
said Governor Dean, who signed the bill in a ceremony at the Southwestern
Vermont Medical Center here.

The law was supported by both parties in the Legislature, as well as the Vermont
Medical Society and some insurers, including Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Vermont. The support of Governor Dean, a moderate Democrat and a specialist in
internal medicine, was considered critical to the law's passage, as his backing
reassured the health care industry and other businesses worried about the
practicality of a new system.

Too Much or Not Enough?

Nonetheless, several insurance companies, fearing increased regulation and
decreased profits, have threatened to leave the state.

And some Democrats here have criticized the law for not going far enough or
moving soon enough. The law's only immediate impact, for example, will be to
extend state-sponsored health insurance to all children in low-income families.

Senator Cheryl Rivers, a Democrat who sponsored a rival bill that would have
gone into effect sooner and would have created a Canadian-style system with
Vermont insuring itself, said: "This is only a small step forward. The main
thing it does is postpone the major decisions for two years, when the costs will
be even higher."

But Governor Dean and Republicans here opposed her plan -- called a
"single-payer" scheme -- as too expensive.

"Their package would have cost $500 million in a state with a total budget of
$1.3 billion," Governor Dean said. "They would have created an entitlement
program we can't pay for. We've got to control costs first to get an effective
health care plan."

In the end, the two sides negotiated a compromise, agreeing to have the new
health care agency study the costs of both a single-payer and a multi-payer plan
that included private insurance companies closely regulated by the state.

The centerpiece of the new law is the Health Care Authority, which will have
three executives, all selected by Governor Dean. It will consolidate the
functions of several overlapping state agencies, a duplication that the state
estimates accounts for 15 to 17 percent of annual health care costs.

Financing the System

The authority will study how much medical procedures cost in Vermont, and will
eventually set a ceiling on the state's overall health-care budget, Governor
Dean said. Vermonters will use common claim forms.

"The two broad aims are to guarantee access to all by limiting costs and to
reallocate resources away from expensive procedures to emphasizing primary and
preventive care," Governor Dean said in an interview. "We do twice as many
high-tech procedures as many other countries but the results aren't any
different."

The new law also aims to reduce the cost of malpractice insurance by setting up
an arbitration panel before malpractice cases go to court. It bans "cherry
picking," a practice in which some insurance companies offer coverage only to
groups of people who are low risk. And it sets up a common health insurance
purchasing pool for state employees, which can be joined later by other groups.

There will be two basic options of how to pay for the new system. In one,
individuals and group plans would continue to make payments, to be channeled
through the state system. Under the other, backed by Governor Dean, payments
would be made by a state trust fund, supported by some combination of new taxes.

"We've got to divorce health insurance from the employer-employee relationship,"
the Governor said, calling that relationship an accident of history that has
created inequality and made reform difficult.

If health insurance is not separated from employment, he said, "we're going to
continue to have problems with unemployed people, with people who change jobs"
and with people who work for small employers that do not provide insurance.

Other States' Plans

Among other states that have expanded access to health insurance, Hawaii has the
oldest and the most comprehensive laws, requiring employers to pay for insurance
premiums for any employee working more than 20 hours a week.

Most recently, Minnesota enacted legislation that would, among other things,
provide health insurance to the uninsured by taxing hospitals, doctors, and
other health care businesses.

Under a bill passed in March, insurers in Florida have two years to demonstrate
they can come up with health care packages that most employers can afford; after
that, mandates are recommended to the legislature.

Oregon is awaiting approval from the Federal Government for its plan to insure
under its Medicaid program all families living at or below the poverty level.
The Oregon law would also force employers of three or more people to provide
health insurance or pay into an insurance fund by July 1995.

In Massachusetts, the Legislature pushed back, to 1995, the deadline for a
similar proposal requiring employers of six or more to provide health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont signing into law a health bill that
would give the state universal health care by 1995. (Jon Gilbert Fox for The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                             468 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 8, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Health vote meaningless

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 461 words


The proposed Health Care Services charter amendment on the Nov. 6 ballot --
Amendment 1 -- is nothing more than a reminder that the Florida Legislature
cares more about making political statements than about the health-care needs of
Floridians.

The measure has nothing to do with health care or services. The Legislature
passed it in 2011 as an effort to exempt Floridians from the Affordable Care
Act's requirement to buy health insurance. Because the Supreme Court upheld the
mandate and the law, the amendment is moot. If the court had overturned the law,
the amendment wouldn't have mattered. Legislators, however, knew the amendment
was useless when they approved it.

Florida and 25 other states had filed suit against the Affordable Care Act, and
there was never any doubt that the question of whether the federal government
could compel individuals to buy insurance would be decided by the U.S. Supreme
Court, not Florida voters. Federal law trumps state law.

The measure's sponsors, Sen. Mike Haridopolos, R-Merritt Island and Rep. Scott
Plakon, R-Longwood, aren't investing any of their time and energy pushing for
the ballot question. They have been, not surprisingly, silent on the issue. The
Florida Chamber of Commerce, a key proponent of the proposed amendment, has just
one sentence in its elections guide on the issue and also is not investing money
to support it.

Unfortunately, taxpayers did have to invest money to advertise the measure,
which will be meaningless even if it gets the necessary 60 percent majority.

Florida's legislators weren't the only ones wasting voters' time and money.
Alabama and Wyoming have similar meaningless constitutional amendments on the
ballot. Sixteen states have approved statutes or put constitutional amendments
to limit or reject health care reform on their ballots since 2008.

A better response would be for the Legislature to worry that Florida has the
third-highest rate of residents who lack health insurance. Nearly 4 million
Floridians, or 21 percent of the state, are without health coverage.

Despite that, Gov. Rick Scott has said the state will not set up health
insurance exchanges, as required by the health care law for individuals to buy
coverage with government subsidies, or expand its Medicaid program to provide
insurance to those making up to 133 percent of the poverty level. The federal
government will set up the exchanges if the state won't. The Supreme Court
ruling, however, made expanding Medicaid optional for the states. The expansion
would provide health insurance for an additional 2 million Floridians.

The Post recommends a NO vote on Amendment 1, and urges Gov. Scott and the
Legislature to focus on health care instead of political gamesmanship.

Rhonda Swan for The Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             469 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                             June 7, 2012, Thursday

WVU eyes student;
insurance coverage;
Official hopes to contact private company to offer health plans by fall

BYLINE: RIVARD, DAILY MAIL CAPITOL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 816 words


In an effort to offer low-cost health care to thousands of uninsured college
students, West Virginia higher education officials want to create a new
insurance plan.

The chairman of the state Higher Education Policy Commission said this week he
wants to contract with a private health insurance company to offer insurance to
students as soon as this fall.

Separately, West Virginia University plans to require all its students to have
health insurance in the next year or two.

Currently, about 15-20 percent of WVU's 30,000 students are uninsured, according
to the university's top finance official.

These changes are coming regardless of whether the national health care reform
law is upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court, officials said. But both the higher
education commission and WVU's plans could be affected by that ruling, which is
expected later this month.

Nationally, a fifth of undergraduate-age college students are uninsured,
according to a 2008 study by the U.S. Government Accountability Office.

If that number holds true in West Virginia, at least 21,000 students at the
state's public four-year schools are uninsured. That figure doesn't include
perhaps thousands more uninsured students at the state's two-year community and
technical colleges or older students who are enrolled in college.

Hendrickson said he wants to offer the new insurance plan to all full-time
college students, including community college students. While the state hasn't
yet asked for bids, Hendrickson wants to do so and get a private insurance
company on board in time for the start of school.

"That's hustling, I understand," he said in a telephone interview Wednesday.

Hendrickson said the new state insurance plan for students would be supported
solely with student premiums. He said it would not require new money from the
state.

"The system won't put up any money at all," he said.

But Hendrickson hopes creating a large risk pool will give students a low-cost
insurance option. Right now, uninsured people have little choice except to buy
individual or small group plans, which are often prohibitively expensive.

"That's kind of the goal: to give them an alternative to insure themselves and -
if they have one - their families, at much lower premiums while they are going
to college," Hendrickson said.

Nationally, the GAO identified about 40 groups of colleges that had teamed up to
offer health insurance to students.

Somewhat separately, officials at the state's largest university are making
their own changes. West Virginia University plans to force students to buy
health insurance.

Narvel Weese, WVU's vice president of administration and finance, said the
university likely would begin requiring its students to have health insurance in
fall 2014.

Hendrickson said the state as whole was not going to follow WVU's lead and
require all college students to buy health insurance.

But WVU's timing coincides with the expected opening of the university's new
student health center.

"We estimate that somewhere between 80 and 85 percent of our students already
have medical insurance," Weese said.

Weese said WVU likely would contract with a private insurance company at first.
But the university later might explore creating its own health insurance plan.

The national health care reform law requires all adults to have health insurance
. It provides subsidies for uninsured people with medium to low incomes,
something that could help uninsured students buy insurance.

So, if the law is upheld, WVU students already would be forced to buy health
insurance. But, even if the law is struck down, WVU's new mandate would not be
unusual: the GAO report estimated about a third of colleges already require
students to carry health insurance.

Currently, no state four-year college offers its own health insurance plan,
though 14 of them provide students with information about health insurance
offered by a private company, according to a survey conducted this week by the
higher education commission.

The GAO report from four years ago found most college-backed plans had annual
premiums of $500 to $1,000 a year.

They likely have risen since then because of rising medical costs.

In addition, The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this week that colleges
that offer plans are forced to raise premiums because of requirements in the
national health care reform law that require health insurance plans to offer
more benefits.

Higher education policy director Rob Anderson said those increases made him
"less optimistic" West Virginia could create a low-cost option for students.

"Personally, I'm concerned that it could be cost prohibitive," he said.

Anderson said commission members would discuss their options during a retreat
later this week where they will discuss a five-year plan for the state higher
education system.

Contact writer Ry Rivard at ry.rivard@dailymail.com or 304-348-1796. Follow him
at www.twitter.com/ryrivard.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Charleston Newspapers


                             470 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             June 23, 2015 Tuesday

Lankford predicts high court will strike down health insurance subsidies

BYLINE: By Chris Casteel Washington Bureau ccasteel@oklahoman.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 615 words


WASHINGTON&nbsp;- Sen. James Lankford predicted Monday that the U.S. Supreme
Court would strike down health insurance subsidies for millions of Americans
soon and said states then should be given the authority to develop coverage
plans for the uninsured.In a speech on the Senate floor, Lankford, R-Oklahoma
City, said he expects the high court to rule that low- and moderate-income
people in Oklahoma and 36 other states are not entitled to tax subsidies to
purchase coverage in the individual market.The 2010 law says the subsidies are
available to people who buy coverage in an exchange - a marketplace for policies
- established by the state.Most states did not establish their own exchanges,
and people in those states have been purchasing health insurance from federal
exchanges. The law does not specifically say the subsidies are available for
individual policies bought on federal exchanges, but the Internal Revenue
Service has interpreted the law to allow subsidies on any
exchange.Conservatives, including Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt,
challenged the IRS interpretation with four separate lawsuits. The Supreme Court
is expected to rule within the next two weeks on a case in Virginia."I believe
they're going to rule on the plain text of the law," Lankford said.

"Does the law mean what the law says? Or can the administration reinterpret it
based on their preferences?"In Oklahoma, more than 87,000 people are receiving
subsidies averaging about $200 a month this year to buy health insurance on the
individual market. Nationwide, more than 6 million people are getting subsidies
this year.Lankford said lawmakers opposed to the Affordable Care Act are not
"angry with those people" receiving subsidies. He did not detail or endorse any
specific proposal for helping people who might lose their insurance, though
Republicans in Congress have been working on contingency plans.Lankford said the
country should "transition away from subsidies."It was not clear whether he was
talking about just those subsidies in the individual market - the subject of the
Supreme Court case - or all health care policies.Lankford's family health
insurance policy is funded mostly by taxpayers.But all people in group health
insurance - which is the large majority of people with private insurance -
effectively receive tax subsidies because the cost of their insurance paid by
their employers is not counted as income.According to the Congressional Budget
Office, the "exclusion of employers' contributions for health care, health
insurance premiums, and long-term care insurance premiums is the single largest
tax expenditure in the individual income tax code."Lankford's feeling about how
the high court will rule is not universally shared. Many have predicted that
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., would be reluctant to strike down the
subsidies after two years of them being in effect.In his speech, Lankford said
that if the subsidies are struck down, Congress should move toward a system in
which states design their own methods of covering the uninsured."States should
have the freedom to choose any path to help their citizens," he said.He
mentioned Insure Oklahoma, a program that uses tobacco tax revenue and Medicaid
money to subsidize health coverage. Thousands of Oklahomans were forced out of
Insure Oklahoma when the Affordable Care Act went into effect, and the
administration may not renew it later this year.Insure Oklahoma was opposed by
many Republicans, including Pruitt, when it was established by former Democratic
Gov. Brad Henry and Democratic legislators.However, Gov. Mary Fallin and other
Republicans have become some of its biggest boosters in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             471 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             June 23, 2015 Tuesday

Lankford predicts high court will strike down health insurance subsidies

BYLINE: By Chris Casteel Washington Bureau ccasteel@oklahoman.com

SECTION:

LENGTH: 615 words


WASHINGTON&nbsp;- Sen. James Lankford predicted Monday that the U.S. Supreme
Court would strike down health insurance subsidies for millions of Americans
soon and said states then should be given the authority to develop coverage
plans for the uninsured.In a speech on the Senate floor, Lankford, R-Oklahoma
City, said he expects the high court to rule that low- and moderate-income
people in Oklahoma and 36 other states are not entitled to tax subsidies to
purchase coverage in the individual market.The 2010 law says the subsidies are
available to people who buy coverage in an exchange - a marketplace for policies
- established by the state.Most states did not establish their own exchanges,
and people in those states have been purchasing health insurance from federal
exchanges. The law does not specifically say the subsidies are available for
individual policies bought on federal exchanges, but the Internal Revenue
Service has interpreted the law to allow subsidies on any
exchange.Conservatives, including Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt,
challenged the IRS interpretation with four separate lawsuits. The Supreme Court
is expected to rule within the next two weeks on a case in Virginia."I believe
they're going to rule on the plain text of the law," Lankford said.

"Does the law mean what the law says? Or can the administration reinterpret it
based on their preferences?"In Oklahoma, more than 87,000 people are receiving
subsidies averaging about $200 a month this year to buy health insurance on the
individual market. Nationwide, more than 6 million people are getting subsidies
this year.Lankford said lawmakers opposed to the Affordable Care Act are not
"angry with those people" receiving subsidies. He did not detail or endorse any
specific proposal for helping people who might lose their insurance, though
Republicans in Congress have been working on contingency plans.Lankford said the
country should "transition away from subsidies."It was not clear whether he was
talking about just those subsidies in the individual market - the subject of the
Supreme Court case - or all health care policies.Lankford's family health
insurance policy is funded mostly by taxpayers.But all people in group health
insurance - which is the large majority of people with private insurance -
effectively receive tax subsidies because the cost of their insurance paid by
their employers is not counted as income.According to the Congressional Budget
Office, the "exclusion of employers' contributions for health care, health
insurance premiums, and long-term care insurance premiums is the single largest
tax expenditure in the individual income tax code."Lankford's feeling about how
the high court will rule is not universally shared. Many have predicted that
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., would be reluctant to strike down the
subsidies after two years of them being in effect.In his speech, Lankford said
that if the subsidies are struck down, Congress should move toward a system in
which states design their own methods of covering the uninsured."States should
have the freedom to choose any path to help their citizens," he said.He
mentioned Insure Oklahoma, a program that uses tobacco tax revenue and Medicaid
money to subsidize health coverage. Thousands of Oklahomans were forced out of
Insure Oklahoma when the Affordable Care Act went into effect, and the
administration may not renew it later this year.Insure Oklahoma was opposed by
many Republicans, including Pruitt, when it was established by former Democratic
Gov. Brad Henry and Democratic legislators.However, Gov. Mary Fallin and other
Republicans have become some of its biggest boosters in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             472 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday

Author of state's health insurance bill scolds governor over implementation

BYLINE: By Hillary Chabot

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 487 words


BOSTON -- One of the chief authors of the state's historic health insurance
reform is scolding Gov. Deval Patrick's administration for dragging its feet
when it comes to implementing parts of the law.

The Division of Insurance, currently overseen by Insurance Commissioner Nonnie
Burnes, failed to fully staff a bureau meant to educate the public about the
cost of the broad legislation, said state Rep. Patricia Walrath, D-Stow.

"We're waiting for them to do something. Some of the duties we have given them
the (Health Insurance) Connector has kind of taken over because there was a
vacuum," Walrath said. "We're disappointed they haven't hired the people we more
or less mandated them to hire."

The bill, signed into law in April of 2006, established a health care access
bureau under the Division of Insurance. The bureau was to have a deputy
commissioner, a finance expert, an actuary and a research analyst to oversee
small group and individual health insurance.

Lawmakers have earmarked $1 million for the bureau since the law passed so they
could hire staff and get information to people about accessing affordable health
insurance.

The Division of Insurance appointed Kevin Beagan, who is also the director of
the state rating bureau, as deputy commissioner. The law requires staff members
to devote full time their duties to the office, but Beagan holds two positions.

Kim Haberlin, spokeswoman for the Insurance Commission, said the department will
appoint an actuary and a research analyst within the next week. A number of
issues, from a hiring freeze to difficulty luring actuaries to the public
sector, prevented them from staffing the bureau sooner, Haberlin said.

The bureau contracted outside actuaries in the meantime who conducted studies on
availability of health savings accounts, rates in the small group market, plans
chosen by large employers and relative costs, and an analysis of major factors
behind health care cost increases, Haberlin said. The bureau also sent out
consumer material to senior centers, colleges, public libraries and employers
regarding public health care reform earlier this year, and they have more
material on the way.

"The implementation of health care reform is a significant undertaking and the
Division of Insurance is pleased that its Health Care Access Unit is making
progress on a number of fronts, including conducting consumer and employer
outreach and education and completing several pertinent studies examining health
care availability and costs in the state," said Haberlin.

"More work remains to be done and we are committed to fulfilling our role in
making health care in Massachusetts affordable and accessible for all of our
residents."

The health-care law, passed in 2006, requires all state residents to have health
insurance by Dec. 31. They face a $219 charge on their tax returns next year if
they haven't signed up, and the penalties will increase the next year.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             473 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                             August 29, 2010 Sunday

A health incentive for small firms

BYLINE: Aaron Corvin Columbian staff writer; Zachary Kaufman The Columbian

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 995 words



HIGHLIGHT: Kristie Smith is director of branch operations for Barrett Business
Services Inc., a firm that helps small- and medium-size businesses deal with
human resources issues. ---


Clark County small businesses could get back up to 35 percent of the money they
pay into health insurance premiums this year. But many owners are so focused on
their daily operations - or so overwhelmed by the complexity of federal health
care reform - that they have not yet looked into what the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act means for them.


The law, passed by Congress and signed by President Obama in March, is
mind-numbingly complex. The bulk of it doesn't take effect until 2014. But
here's what small-business owners need to know now: An employer that pays
annual health insurance premiums of $10,000 per worker could get back up to
$3,500 in tax credits for each covered employee.
To be sure, not all small employers will be eligible for a tax credit. And it
takes some time and a little fortitude to figure out a law that doesn't treat
all businesses the same.
Complex landscape
Small employers such as Vancouver-based On Line Support Inc., which are focused
on growing and staying competitive, are the most likely to benefit from the tax
credits.
President and CEO Eric Olmsted employs eight people, including himself, and
pays 100 percent of employees' health insurance, including medical, dental and
vision. Employees are responsible for the cost of covering their families. Just
this year, Olmsted said, his company had to raise deductibles and co-pays to
offset increases in health insurance costs.
If his employees earn an average wage of less than $50,000, he should be able
to qualify for tax credits. But Olmsted, who is skeptical about the health care
reform law, said he has not researched how it will affect his business.
"Truthfully, it probably hasn't been the focus that it should be for me,"
Olmsted said. "In this economy, we're just focusing on growth and just keeping
up with business."
Kristie Smith, director of branch operations for Vancouver-based
Barrett Business Services Inc.,
has encountered many small businesses facing the same dilemma.
Barrett Business Services
provides a comprehensive range of human-resource consulting services to small-
and medium-size companies, including on the issue of employer-based health
insurance.
"We have had to become the resident expert for a couple thousand clients,"
Smith said of how the law has affected Barrett's operations.
She views the small-business tax credit with a mixture of hope and caution. For
profitable small businesses, the credits are an attractive lure, she said.
Conversely, those that are struggling to survive will find it difficult to
justify adding or restoring a health care plan. That's especially true when you
consider the historic rise in the cost of premiums. The benefits consulting
firm Mercer estimates that nationally, the average health benefit cost per
employee has been rising at about 6 percent for each of the past five years.
Dellan Redjou, owner of Smokey's Hot Oven Pizza, with two locations in the
Vancouver area, has first-hand experience with rising premiums. She employs 35
full-time and part-time employees. In the past, she has tried to offer her
employees health insurance, but it has proved to be unaffordable. She does,
however, help pay for health care for a few full-time employees who've been
with her pizza place for a long time.
Redjou said she's been too busy running her business and tending to her family
to figure out whether her company is eligible for a tax credit. The health
reform law is complex, she said, and she doesn't have an army of experts to
help her.
"My human resources department is me," she said. Redjou said she generally
favors extending health insurance to more people but wishes the federal
government had found a way to tinker with existing programs rather than
remodeling the entire system. Still, she said, she's keeping an eye on the
health reform law and the incentives it offers small employers.
Reward, don't punish
Beyond tax credits, the law has another plus for small-business owners: Unlike
how it treats large employers, the law doesn't threaten to penalize small
businesses if they refuse to provide health insurance to their employees.
Instead, it deploys the tax credit program as an incentive, aiming to encourage
small businesses that already help pay for their workers' health care to
continue to do so and to prod those that don't to make it happen.
"The good news," Smith said, "is that the scope of the reform act really does
provide more carrot than stick to small-business owners."
And there are tools available to help small businesses determine whether
they're eligible for a tax credit. An Internet connection doesn't hurt. For
example, the website of the Internal Revenue System -
www.IRS.gov
 - has more information about the credit and how to claim it. Included in that
information is a three-step process for small employers to follow to calculate
whether or not they qualify for a credit.
Most of the changes under the health reform law, which aims to expand health
insurance to 32 million Americans, won't take effect until 2014. But its
potential impact on small businesses is extensive. The tax program, for
example, isn't the only change small employers will see from the health reform
law. Beginning in 2014, state health insurance exchanges will be available,
creating a new marketplace aimed at enabling employers to purchase affordable
health care for their workers. Small employers will be able to review
comparable information on the costs and benefits of insurance plans so they can
choose the plan that best suits their workers. The idea is to reduce the
administrative burdens on small businesses that lack the resources and time to
research health coverage.
What the health reform law will mean to small companies will depend a lot on
each company's individual situation, said Smith, the
Barrett Business Services
executive. "What we all hope for is that it works," she said. "I don't think
anyone can argue against the fact that our current system is in serious need of
reform."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             474 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Property and Casualty 360

                                August 16, 2010

Will Mandates Survive?

BYLINE: SAM FRIEDMAN

SECTION: ISSUES August-1623-2010

LENGTH: 564  words


Anyone who thought the debate over health reform ended when President Barack
Obama signed landmark legislation into law was badly mistaken. Indeed, it
appears opponents of the law have only begun to fight-both in court and at the
ballot box.

First, a federal district court judge refused to dismiss a lawsuit by Virginia
challenging the constitutional authority of Congress to force everyone to buy
health insurance coverage or pay a penalty.

Second, Missouri voters on Aug. 3 overwhelmingly approved a proposition looking
to nullify the insurance mandates.

These are not isolated protests. Arizona and Oklahoma residents will vote on a
measure similar to Missouri's later in the year, while five other states are
taking steps to defy the federal mandate. And nearly two-dozen states are
challenging the law in court.

The question now is where will this titanic legal battle end? My guess is that
the last word will inevitably come after what appears to be an unavoidable
showdown in the U.S. Supreme Court.

This outcome would be entirely appropriate not only given the weighty
constitutional issues at stake, but also because the nation needs a sense of
finality on the health care reform law that only a Supreme Court ruling can
provide.

That's not to say that even a high court decision would end the debate over
whether Uncle Sam can force people to buy health insurance or pay a fine-decades
after

Roe v. Wade

, we are still debating and litigating abortion rights, after all.

But once the Supreme Court weighs in on the jurisdictional and constitutional
disputes over federal health insurance mandates, at least we can get started
actually implementing this controversial law-or, if the ruling goes against
supporters of mandates, to legislate an alternative to cover the uninsured.

There is time to sort this out, since the law on mandated coverage does not go
into effect until 2014. But meanwhile, we are all trapped in a sort of legal
limbo, not knowing whether the mandate will survive-and with it, the reform law
as a whole.

The insurance industry in general is normally against federal meddling in the
free market, at least on principle. But in practice, mandates are not always a
bad thing for this industry. Forcing drivers to buy auto insurance is a good
thing for society, right? Requiring business owners to purchase workers'
compensation coverage is also a plus for safety and liability certainty, is it
not?

You would think the industry would favor a mandate to buy health insurance as
well. For one, it will bring tens of millions of uninsured individuals into the
insurance market. And it would prevent adverse selection by forcing healthy
people to sign up, thereby spreading the risk more efficiently and lowering
premiums for all.

There would likely be less cost-shifting to workers' comp as well, with fewer
people having to lie about non-work-related injuries because they lack health
coverage.

Stripping the mandate out of the law on constitutional grounds would gut the
reform program and be bad news indeed for the insurance industry. If insurers
must cover all comers-but not everyone is required to buy coverage-that means
people could game the system, waiting until they get hurt or become ill to sign
up.

Honestly, however, I don't expect this debate to come to that. I believe the
Supreme Court will back the federal government on mandates.

What do you folks think?

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 The National Underwriter Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             475 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

Udall says family has benefited from health law

LENGTH: 341  words


Under fire for his support of the Affordable Care Act, Sen. Mark Udall said
President Barack Obama's landmark legislation isn't perfect but has benefited
many, including his own family.

During a visit to an energy conservation company on Thursday, the Colorado
Democrat said the law has allowed his 23-year-old daughter to stay on the family
health plan. In addition, he said, he was happy with the coverage and savings he
got by purchasing a plan on the state health insurance exchange.

Udall offered the endorsement as he faces re-election and is coming under fire
for his 2009 vote in favor of the health care reform law. Now, he says he
supports fixing the act, not repealing it.

"The system we had before was broken," Udall said, asserting that the law is a
net positive for the country and that Coloradans want it fixed rather than
repealed.

Udall is being hammered during the campaign over what critics call shortcomings
in the new law. A $970,000 ad campaign by the conservative Americans for
Prosperity contends that "Obamacare just doesn't work" and urges viewers to
"tell Sen. Udall to stop thinking about politics and start thinking about
people."

On Friday, the Democratic-aligned Senate Majority PAC announced it will spend
$550,000 to air an ad countering that campaign. The PAC says the attacks come
from insurance companies and out-of-state billionaires supporting Udall's likely
opponent, Republican Rep. Cory Gardner.

Gardner has his own personal story about the health care law. Last fall he said
his family's insurance policy was cancelled because of the Affordable Care Act
and he had to buy more expensive insurance.

Colorado regulators say 335,000 residents received notices that their health
insurance plans were being cancelled and more than 90 percent were offered
options to renew or join other plans.

More than 100,000 Coloradans have bought health insurance on the state exchange
and about 150,000 have been added to Medicaid rolls under the Affordable Care
Act.

Udall did not provide further details or documentation on his plan.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             476 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 3, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Health insurance bar for abortions upheld

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 639 words


States may bar elective abortions from routine health insurance coverage, a
federal appeals court in St. Louis ruled Monday. The decision upheld a Missouri
law that permits elective abortion in health insurance only as an option at
additional cost. A lower federal judge had struck down the measure. The appeals
court said the law ''does not impose an undue burden on a woman's abortion
decision'' and is rationally related to a legitimate government purpose.
Missouri, the only state with such a law, said it was to reduce insurance costs
and protect consumers who don't want their premiums to subsidize abortions.
Similar laws were struck down in Rhode Island and Pennsylvania.

In Buffalo, New York Attorney General Robert Abrams asked a federal judge for
stricter limits on planned mass protests at abortion clinics. Operation Rescue,
which last year targeted Wichita, said demonstrations would begin in Buffalo on
April 20. Abrams wants to require demonstrators to give 24-hour notice, ban
photographing of patients entering clinics, and impose higher fines for
violations. A federal injunction already bars blockades and harassment.

NORIEGA TRIAL: Manuel Noriega's defense at his federal drug and racketeering
trial in Miami got a boost with a CIA agent's testimony that the ex- Panamanian
leader acted as a go-between with Cuba's Fidel Castro. ''General Noriega made an
obvious attempt to go out of his way to cooperate,'' Donald Winters told the
jury. He said the CIA ''encouraged and appreciated'' Noriega's contacts with
Castro.

LOTTERY FLAP: Virginia lottery officials might withhold a $ 27 million jackpot
if it was won by Australian investors who tried to buy all possible number
combinations. Cited: Money and tickets must change hands at a retail counter
where tickets are issued by a lottery machine. If the investors paid in bulk at
a retailer's headquarters the tickets could be invalid. No one has presented the
winning ticket.

BRUTALITY TRIAL: No blacks are on the jury in the trial of four white Los
Angeles police officers charged with brutality in the videotaped beating of
black motorist Rodney King a year ago today. Some black potential jurors were
dismissed because they were approached by members of the NAACP; others because
of answers they gave to a 40-page questionnaire. A Hispanic and an Asian are on
the jury in Simi Valley, where the trial was moved due to publicity.

SCHOOL SAFETY: Comedian Bill Cosby and New York Mayor David Dinkins visited
Thomas Jefferson High School, where two students were shot to death Wednesday
just before a Dinkins visit. ''This situation does not just exist in your
area,'' Cosby said. ''It's all over'' the USA.

ALSO MONDAY ...

- GOING HOME: Dancer-choreographer Katherine Dunham, 82, fasting for the 31st
day in support of Haitian refugees, was released from an Illinois hospital and
taken home where she plans to continue her juice fast.

- TURBULENCE: Four Continental Airlines flight attendants were treated for
injuries sustained when a DC-10 flight to Denver from Gatwick Airport in London
encountered severe turbulence over Greenland.

- GAY MARCHERS: The Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization asked a New York federal
judge to ban the city's traditional St. Patrick's Day Parade unless the group is
allowed to march. Hearing: March 12, five days before the parade, usually the
USA's largest on St. Patrick's Day.

- SUPREMACIST RELEASE: A judge in Jackson, Miss., is considering a request from
white supremacist Byron De La Beckwith that he be released on bond pending trial
in the 1963 slaying of civil rights leader Medgar Evers. Prosecutors oppose
releasing Beckwith, 71.

Contributing: Sandra Sanchez, Steve Marshall, Gary Fields, Mimi Hall, Robert
Davis, Tom Squitieri and Sam Vincent Meddis

Happy to be back in class

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Doug Van Tassel, AP

CUTLINE: TEEN RETURNS: John Thompson, the Hurdsfield, N.D., teen whose arms were
severed in a farm accident Jan. 11, returned Monday to Bowdon High School.
Surgeons reattached the 18-year-old's arms and he's regained partial use. Next
to him: senior classmate Kris Fike.

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             477 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 METRO EDITION

Bipartisan House bill outlines state health insurance exchange

BYLINE: WARREN WOLFE; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 450 words



HIGHLIGHT: Three influential Republicans have signed on to a DFL bill to set up
the online marketplace by 2014. A federal exchange would be set up in states
that don't take action.


In a rare display of bipartisanship, three powerful Republican House committee
chairmen have signed on to a DFL bill to establish a health insurance exchange
for Minnesota, a required but controversial piece of the Obama administration's
health care law.

"I think some of us support the bill for different reasons, but we're all pretty
adamant that we'd rather set up our own exchange instead of letting the feds
establish a national model here," Rep. Joe Atkins, DFL-Inver Grove Heights, lead
sponsor in the House, said Thursday.

The federal Affordable Care Act requires that, by 2014, states establish
exchanges -- online marketplaces where consumers can compare health insurance
policies.

But Sen. David Hann, R-Eden Prairie, a leading critic of exchanges and the
federal law that requires them, said he will offer his own legislation next week
to improve health care insurance affordability, access and portability. "I can't
imagine why any Republican would sign on to [the exchange] bill," Hann said.

The notion of a Minnesota health insurance exchange has drawn passionate debate
ever since it became a requirement of the massive 2010 health care law. The
federal law requires nearly all Americans to carry health insurance, and would
set up a federal exchange in states that don't take action. So far, more than
half the states have started work on exchanges.

In addition to 18 DFLers, the House bill is sponsored by committee chairmen Rep.
Jim Abeler, R-Anoka, Health and Human Services Finance; Rep. Greg Davids,
R-Preston, Taxes; and Joe Hoppe, R-Chaska, Commerce and Regulatory Reform. A
Senate version so far has only two DFL sponsors.

The exchange would be "kind of like a Travelocity for health insurance, but even
more important," Atkins said.

While still lacking much detail, the bill begins to "put some meat on the bones"
of a recommendation earlier this month by a task force appointed by Gov. Mark
Dayton. It would be enough to meet a year-end federal deadline to show that
Minnesota can have an exchange in operation by 2014, he said.

Under the Atkins bill, the exchange would be governed by a 19-member board
appointed largely by the Legislature and governor. It would include consumers,
small employers, the health care and insurance representatives, health
practitioners, other experts and three state agency commissioners. It would
require all insurers to participate, with the same rules for insurance plans in
or out of the exchange.

Still to be spelled out -- probably in more controversial bills next year, he
said -- are the basic benefits each plan must provide and whether operational
directives will be in state law or left to the Commerce Department.

Warren Wolfe - 612-673-7253

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             478 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                               December 16, 1996

CAHI Study: Free Market Promotes Positive Selection

BYLINE: BY MARY JANE FISHER

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Council for Affordable Health Insurance has issued a study on "Selection and
Adverse Selection in Health Insurance" that defines those terms in the context
of health care reform.

CAHI's 21-page paper evaluates the impact of consumer choice on establishing
policy and making law.

In a free market, consumers tend to make decisions that serve their best
interest, whether or not those choices are consistent with policymakers'
intentions, according to the study.

"The impact of unencumbered choice inevitably leads to overall positive results
for the market," Mark Litow, consulting actuary and a principal with the
Milwaukee office of Milliman & Robertson, told reporters at a recent press
conference called to release the study. He is also chairman of CAHI's Technical
Committee.

"In considering health insurance reform, the dynamics of selection must be
considered in the context of the entire market and not any particular group,"
said Mr. Litow. He emphasized that "policymakers' goals should be reforms that
have at best a positive impact on selection, or at worst, a neutral impact."

Failure to balance selection with the ability of risk takers to control cost is
one of the major items driving health care costs continually higher, the study
found.

CAHI cited as examples of adverse selection the mandating of uninsurable events,
such as coverage of services that are predictable or easily affordable. Some
examples are chiropractic services, mental and nervous disorders and hair
transplants, it noted.

Other examples of adverse selection included in the study were guaranteed issue,
community rating or rating restrictions, Medicare and Medicare risk contracts,
Medicaid and price controls, as in current levels of reimbursement for Medicare
and Medicaid coverage.

Positive selection results in aggregate costs being reduced (over many years)
because of a certain practice or reform, CAHI said. These include increasing the
percentage of healthy people who enter or stay in the system and risk
segmentation with appropriate funding.

The study held that reforms, such as Medical Savings Accounts, may effectively
keep many people in the system, because they allow a better matching of costs
for both the healthy and less-healthy.

"MSAs do not suggest that the unhealthy leave because they are now paying a
higher premium on their costs," CAHI said. "Rather, MSAs keep the overall costs
lower by encouraging healthier individuals to remain in the system through a
reduction in the subsidy they pay.

"In the long run, it helps the less healthy because their aggregate premiums
will be stabilized at lower levels than would occur if the healthy had not been
encouraged to participate in the system," the study said.

The goal is to create a balance within the system, according to the issue paper.
It noted that the market can create innovations needed to control costs,
particularly if not held back by provisions that encourage adverse selection
rather than positive selection.

"One possibility is the combination of some managed care initiatives as
practiced today, together with MSAs," CAHI said.

Managed care can produce efficiencies and savings on an inpatient basis, the
study said. For outpatient care, CAHI said MSAs, and/or high deductible policies
"appear to produce more efficiencies than other forms tried to date."

CAHI's Technical and Senior Issues Committees are working on a two-part Medicare
reform plan. An issue brief identifying the Medicare program's problems is
expected to be released in January. The second part of CAHI's Medicare reform
plan examining short and long-term solutions is due in March 1997.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1996 The National Underwriter Company


                             479 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                            November 6, 2012 Tuesday

Lebanon Valley Chamber of Commerce forum to tackle health-care law

BYLINE: By CHRIS SHOLLY Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Business

LENGTH: 541 words


The Lebanon Valley Chamber of Commerce will host an informational forum Thursday
called "The New Health Care Law - What It Means for Your Business, Your
Employees & You," featuring officials from the health-care industry, the state,
the insurance industry and the business community.

The forum, set for Marabelle's Restaurant & Catering, 1352 Cumberland St.,
Lebanon, will begin with registration and a buffet breakfast at 7:30 a.m., with
the program to follow from 8 to 10 a.m. The presenting sponsor will be the Good
Samaritan Health System.

Matthew O'Donnell, policy director for the Pennsylvania Health Department, who
has been asked to discuss what some health-insurance products are expected to
look like under the new law and how the State Insurance Exchange may be affected
by the law. O'Donnell is expected to review the key dates for the roll-out of
the various provisions of the expansive new health-care law.

O'Donnell said the state is doing its part to get information about the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act and how it will affect small businesses in
Pennsylvania.

"We are trying to understand the implications for small businesses, but we're
running into roadblocks. We do not have all of the information from the federal
government yet," O'Donnell said in a phone interview Tuesday.

He said it's difficult to say now how the new health-care law will affect the
state's businesses. There are a number of changes that would affect insurance
price calculations and how risk is allocated.

"This gives rise to uncertainty, especially for small businesses," he said. "We
wish we had all the answers."

O'Donnell said business owners who attend the forum would learn more details
than have been in the marketplace, and he encouraged businesses to attend.

O'Donnell said small business employers would learn about their options.

"The more information you have access to, the better decision you can make," he
said.

Other presenters and panel members for the program will be:

Paula Brussard, senior vice president for The Hospital & Healthsystem
Association of Pennsylvania, who will discuss the impact of the new law on
patient care and access to care as well as the likely impact on hospital and
health-care providers' finances.

Eric Pochas, director of client services for Vantagen, the employee benefits arm
of ParenteBeard. Pochas will discuss what health insurance plans will be
available to employers under the new law and what employees' health plans will
look like under this law.

David Vassilaros, director of health-care reform and regulatory affairs for
Capital Blue Cross, who will discuss how the new law will affect health
insurance rates for employers and employees, how the new law may affect Capital
Blue Cross' ability, as a nonprofit, to function and what a package of health
benefits may look like under the new law.

The forum is open to any area businessperson and has a cost of $20 per person
for chamber members with payment in advance, $25 per person for members without
payment in advance and $35 per person for nonmembers.

Reservations are requested and can be made by calling the chamber at
717-273-3727 or emailing Donna Eberly-Lehman at the chamber
atdonna@lvchamber.org

chrissholly@ldnews.com; 272-5611, ext. 151

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                             481 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday

Chamber speaker offers strategies for health care law

BYLINE: Rick Seltzer, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 634 words


June 12--Jeffrey Mullins has been working with plenty of employers on the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act  -- the federal health care reform
law sometimes referred to as Obamacare.

He's looked at everything from the law's large-employer mandate to provide
coverage to its implications on companies' staffing practices. And he's seen
large employers  -- those with 50 or more full-time workers  -- decide whether
to offer health insurance to their full-time employees or pay penalties starting
in 2014.

"At this point, I've been through hundreds of these analyses," said Mullins,
partner in charge of the Dayton office of the law firm Taft Stettinius and
Hollister LLP. "I can tell you how the numbers are running. For about 80 percent
of the people, it made more sense for them to play, to provide insurance. For
about 20 percent of the people, it made sense for them to pay."

Mullins spoke to a room full of Bloomington-area employers about the health care
reform law on Tuesday. He was at a luncheon hosted by the Greater Bloomington
Chamber of Commerce.

"The health care arena, health insurance and everything else, will look vastly
different in five years for employers," he said. "So we've got to start down
that road."

Large employers can sit down with an insurance broker or other adviser to run
numbers on whether it makes more financial sense to pay the penalty or offer
insurance, Mullins said. He also stressed that large employers aren't the only
ones who need to form a strategy for dealing with the law. Those with fewer than
50 full-time employees do, too.

For example, even small employers need to be aware that the law changes the way
health plans can be rated. The move has led to predictions that plan costs will
increase drastically, according to Mullins. Small employers might be able to
send employees to newly created health insurance exchanges or self-insure to
sidestep those changes, he said. Self-insuring would also mean their plans
wouldn't be subject to several of the law's new fees.

Other changes Mullins named are tied to affordability requirements in the law.
Those requirements apply only to coverage for an individual employee, he said.
So the nature of employers' family plans is likely to be modified.

"It's going to change the culture and the way your employees get health
insurance," he said. "It's going to go from providing families and children to
probably providing more for the individual and allowing them to buy up toward
those other benefits."

Mullins also told companies to make sure they carefully monitor the number of
full-time employees they have. Part-time employees working variable schedules
who average more than 30 hours of work a week over several months can end up
counting as full-time equivalents under the law, he said.

"If you think about it, that means if you're wanting to control those hours,
when do you need to start? Now," he said. "Probably, if we want to do what most
employers who are utilizing this strategy have done, we want to hire more
part-timers. We want to train those part-timers."

Liz Irwin, the chamber of commerce's director of advocacy and public policy,
said Mullins' talk intersected with several areas of interest.

"It is a federal issue," she said. "It is a health care issue, and it's one we
knew our members wanted to learn more about."

"The health care arena, health insurance and everything else, will look vastly
different in five years for employers. So we've got to start down that road."

Jeffrey Mullins, partner in charge of the Dayton office of the law firm Taft
Stettinius and Hollister LLP, speaking to the Greater Bloomington Chamber of
Commerce

___ (c)2013 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130612-BM-Chamber-speaker-offers-strategies-for-health-care-law
-0612-20130612

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2013 Herald-Times

                             482 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday

Court ruling could force California to 'rethink everything'

BYLINE: Emily Bazar, CHCF Center for Health Reporting

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 974 words


When President Obama's health care overhaul became law two years ago, California
lawmakers jumped into action.

Within months, they adopted several state laws that implement or build on the
federal measure, including one to create a state health insurance exchange and
another to allow young adults up to age 26 to remain covered by their parents'
health insurance policies.

Lawmakers passed even more bills related to the overhaul last year and continue
to debate sweeping proposals now.

The difference this year is that the fate of those state laws, and the impact
they will have on Californians, hang under what state Sen. Ed Hernandez calls a
"cloud of uncertainty."

Before the end of the month, the U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule on the
constitutionality of the federal health law, called the Affordable Care Act.
Among the most likely scenarios, the court may leave the law intact, overturn it
completely or strike down a key provision that requires most people to purchase
health insurance.

Each possibility carries different implications for California, a state that
took an early and aggressive approach to implementing the federal law.

"We will have to rethink everything" if the federal law is overturned in part or
whole, said Hernandez, a Democrat from West Covina and chair of the Senate
Health Committee.

"We have to reassess all of these measures. Some of them are actually contingent
upon the implementation of the Affordable Care Act," he said.

Experts predict up to 3 million uninsured Californians will become eligible for
health coverage starting in 2014, when the major provisions of the law kick in,
such as an expansion of Medicaid eligibility.

And the Golden State, which already has received more than $1 billion in federal
funding, is counting on billions more.

Should the Supreme Court undo the law's provisions or funding, some state
lawmakers and consumer advocates say that Californians still will benefit from
better health coverage, thanks to the new state laws. Others fear that those new
requirements will raise the cost of insurance.

"It will be important for everyone in California to step back and think through
how we respond in a way that will work for affordable coverage," said Patrick
Johnston, CEO of the California Association of Health Plans.

The list of state bills that implement or expand on the Affordable Care Act is
long. It includes a law that created a state health insurance exchange, where
Californians will be able to buy health coverage and find out whether they
qualify for subsidies; a law that prohibits insurance companies from denying
health coverage to children with pre-existing medical conditions; and a law that
prohibits insurers from setting lifetime caps on benefits.

"There are things that millions of Californians already are benefiting from,"
said Richard Figueroa, director of Health and Human Services for the California
Endowment health foundation.

Additional measures are being debated by the Legislature now, such as a proposal
that would prohibit insurance companies from denying coverage to anyone - not
just children - regardless of pre-existing conditions.

Hernandez, who is the author of that measure and a fervent supporter of the
Affordable Care Act, says he will move forward with that bill as long as the
federal law stands.

At the same time, his office is scouring existing laws to determine which are
tied to the fate of the federal law, and which will remain state law regardless.

Hypothetically, he said, "let's say most of those laws are invalid, we have to
start all over and turn those into statutes that are not dependent on the
federal government."

But could those measures come at a price to Californians?

"They cost money. There's no doubt about it when you mandate things like
expanding coverage to kids or banning lifetime maximums," said Geoffrey Joyce,
director of health policy at the Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and
Economics at the University of Southern California.

Just who will bear that cost is up for debate.

Figueroa and Kim Belsh believe that insurers already have built into premiums
the costs of the new mandates. Belsh , former secretary of the state Health and
Human Services Agency, is a California Health Benefit Exchange board member.

"The insurance products being sold last year, this year and next year reflect
the changes that have already occurred," she said.

But Johnston, of the health plan association, said the true effect of the
state's laws on Californians' pocketbooks will hinge on the Supreme Court's
decision.

He describes the critical pieces of the Affordable Care Act as a "three-legged
stool" that work together to keep costs down.

One leg of the stool is the billions in federal funding for expanding coverage,
he said.

The second is the requirement - known as the "individual mandate" - that most
people purchase health insurance. The third is called "guaranteed issue," which
restricts health insurance companies from denying coverage to people for any
reason, including pre-existing conditions.

If the Supreme Court strikes any one or more of them down, he said, California
"can't just ignore the leg of the stool that was removed," he said.

Hernandez already is considering a statewide individual mandate or other measure
should the Supreme Court strike down the federal one.

But he and others caution that a state individual mandate and insurance exchange
can't be successful without federal money.

"If those federal funds disappeared or were enjoined by the court, California
would be back to the drawing board," Belsh said.

Emily Bazar is a senior writer at the California HealthCare Foundation Center
for Health Reporting. Attached to the USC Annenberg School for Communication &
Journalism, the center reports on health and health policy in California. It is
funded by the nonpartisan California HealthCare Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                             483 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                              June 17, 2012 Sunday

Court ruling could force California to 'rethink everything'

BYLINE: Emily Bazar, CHCF Center for Health Reporting

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 974 words


When President Obama's health care overhaul became law two years ago, California
lawmakers jumped into action.

Within months, they adopted several state laws that implement or build on the
federal measure, including one to create a state health insurance exchange and
another to allow young adults up to age 26 to remain covered by their parents'
health insurance policies.

Lawmakers passed even more bills related to the overhaul last year and continue
to debate sweeping proposals now.

The difference this year is that the fate of those state laws, and the impact
they will have on Californians, hang under what state Sen. Ed Hernandez calls a
"cloud of uncertainty."

Before the end of the month, the U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule on the
constitutionality of the federal health law, called the Affordable Care Act.
Among the most likely scenarios, the court may leave the law intact, overturn it
completely or strike down a key provision that requires most people to purchase
health insurance.

Each possibility carries different implications for California, a state that
took an early and aggressive approach to implementing the federal law.

"We will have to rethink everything" if the federal law is overturned in part or
whole, said Hernandez, a Democrat from West Covina and chair of the Senate
Health Committee.

"We have to reassess all of these measures. Some of them are actually contingent
upon the implementation of the Affordable Care Act," he said.

Experts predict up to 3 million uninsured Californians will become eligible for
health coverage starting in 2014, when the major provisions of the law kick in,
such as an expansion of Medicaid eligibility.

And the Golden State, which already has received more than $1 billion in federal
funding, is counting on billions more.

Should the Supreme Court undo the law's provisions or funding, some state
lawmakers and consumer advocates say that Californians still will benefit from
better health coverage, thanks to the new state laws. Others fear that those new
requirements will raise the cost of insurance.

"It will be important for everyone in California to step back and think through
how we respond in a way that will work for affordable coverage," said Patrick
Johnston, CEO of the California Association of Health Plans.

The list of state bills that implement or expand on the Affordable Care Act is
long. It includes a law that created a state health insurance exchange, where
Californians will be able to buy health coverage and find out whether they
qualify for subsidies; a law that prohibits insurance companies from denying
health coverage to children with pre-existing medical conditions; and a law that
prohibits insurers from setting lifetime caps on benefits.

"There are things that millions of Californians already are benefiting from,"
said Richard Figueroa, director of Health and Human Services for the California
Endowment health foundation.

Additional measures are being debated by the Legislature now, such as a proposal
that would prohibit insurance companies from denying coverage to anyone - not
just children - regardless of pre-existing conditions.

Hernandez, who is the author of that measure and a fervent supporter of the
Affordable Care Act, says he will move forward with that bill as long as the
federal law stands.

At the same time, his office is scouring existing laws to determine which are
tied to the fate of the federal law, and which will remain state law regardless.

Hypothetically, he said, "let's say most of those laws are invalid, we have to
start all over and turn those into statutes that are not dependent on the
federal government."

But could those measures come at a price to Californians?

"They cost money. There's no doubt about it when you mandate things like
expanding coverage to kids or banning lifetime maximums," said Geoffrey Joyce,
director of health policy at the Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and
Economics at the University of Southern California.

Just who will bear that cost is up for debate.

Figueroa and Kim Belsh believe that insurers already have built into premiums
the costs of the new mandates. Belsh , former secretary of the state Health and
Human Services Agency, is a California Health Benefit Exchange board member.

"The insurance products being sold last year, this year and next year reflect
the changes that have already occurred," she said.

But Johnston, of the health plan association, said the true effect of the
state's laws on Californians' pocketbooks will hinge on the Supreme Court's
decision.

He describes the critical pieces of the Affordable Care Act as a "three-legged
stool" that work together to keep costs down.

One leg of the stool is the billions in federal funding for expanding coverage,
he said.

The second is the requirement - known as the "individual mandate" - that most
people purchase health insurance. The third is called "guaranteed issue," which
restricts health insurance companies from denying coverage to people for any
reason, including pre-existing conditions.

If the Supreme Court strikes any one or more of them down, he said, California
"can't just ignore the leg of the stool that was removed," he said.

Hernandez already is considering a statewide individual mandate or other measure
should the Supreme Court strike down the federal one.

But he and others caution that a state individual mandate and insurance exchange
can't be successful without federal money.

"If those federal funds disappeared or were enjoined by the court, California
would be back to the drawing board," Belsh said.

Emily Bazar is a senior writer at the California HealthCare Foundation Center
for Health Reporting. Attached to the USC Annenberg School for Communication &
Journalism, the center reports on health and health policy in California. It is
funded by the nonpartisan California HealthCare Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                             484 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Dirk Stemerman: How HIPAA works

BYLINE: Dirk Stemerman On the Job

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 563 words


HIPAA (the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996) is more
than just a health information and privacy law. As the name implies, the law
protects workers by letting them keep health coverage when changing jobs.

To enroll in a HIPAA plan, a worker must have had health insurance for the
previous 18 months; the most recent insurance must have been in an
employer-sponsored group health plan; the worker must first exhaust Federal
COBRA/Cal-COBRA if they qualify; they must not have other health insurance; and
they must not have lost their most recent health insurance due to fraud or
failure to pay premiums.

The worker has 63 days from the date their group health insurance ends or of
when Federal COBRA or Cal-COBRA ends, to apply for HIPAA. The worker should
provide a Certificate of Creditable Coverage from their last health plan, which
details how long they were covered as it verifies that the worker had at least
18 months of coverage.

Another important HIPAA protection allows individuals with pre-existing
conditions to obtain health coverage. Prior to HIPAA, some employer group health
plans limited or denied coverage if a new employee had such a condition before
enrolling in the plan. Under HIPAA, a plan is allowed to look back only six
months for a condition that was present before the start of coverage in a group
health plan.

The health care reform bill signed into law by President Barack Obama in March
2010 outlaws denial of insurance coverage to those with pre-existing conditions
as of Jan. 1, 2014. That primarily benefits individual policy seekers since
HIPAA already provided such a protection for group medical plan members.

HIPAA is also a privacy rights law, giving individuals rights over who can view
or receive health information, whether written, oral or digital. HIPAA covers
health plans, like insurance companies and Medicare and Medicaid, health care
providers and health care clearinghouses. Some organizations like life insurers,
workers' compensation carriers, employers, and some governmental entities do not
have to follow HIPAA privacy and security rules. Health information cannot be
used or shared without written permission unless otherwise allowed by law.
Health care providers cannot ordinarily provide information to a worker's
employer.

Protected information includes anything health care providers put in an
individual's medical record such as treatment and billing data. Safeguards must
be in place to limit who can access health information and to protect health
information.

Health insurers and health care providers must comply with individual requests
to view and obtain copies of health records; correct health information
inaccuracies; receive a notice advising how health information may be used and
shared, allowing the individual to grant permission before health information
can be used or shared; and to get a report regarding when and why health
information was shared.

To learn more about the rights afforded to workers and patients and the
restrictions placed on health insurers and providers, visit:
www.hhs.gov/ocr/hipaa .

Dirk Stemerman is a lawyer with Rucka, O'Boyle, Lombardo & McKenna in Monterey.
This column is intended to answer questions of general interest and should not
be construed as legal advice. Mail queries to "On the Job," c/o The Monterey
County Herald, Box 271, Monterey 93942.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                             485 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday

What you need to know about the Affordable Care Act   Open enrollment begins
Oct. 1

BYLINE: Sun-News report

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 437 words


Open enrollment for the Affordable Care Act - a national healthcare overhaul
signed into law by President Barack Obama - begins Oct. 1. Here is what you need
to know about the act's key features and health care changes from Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Texas.

Important dates

Oct. 1: Open enrollment through the health insurance exchanges begins for
individuals and businesses. Enrollment will be done at healthcare.gov.

Dec. 15: The final day to purchase health care coverage on an exchange for
coverage that will be effective Jan. 1, 2014.

March 31, 2014: Final day for open enrollment through health insurance
exchanges.

Key features of the Affordable Care Act

Coverage will be guaranteed and required - most Americans will be required to
have health insurance coverage, or pay a penalty.

Residents can get health insurance coverage, even with pre-existing condition.

All new plans will include coverage for essential health benefits. These are a
comprehensive package of benefits including preventive services, maternity and
newborn care, and emergency services.

Based on income, health insurance coverage assistance could be available.

The Health Insurance Marketplace - where open enrollment applications will be
filled out - will offer price comparison on plans and benefits from different
health insurance companies.

Where to go for health insurance coverage

You can enroll in a plan on the Health Insurance Marketplace at healthcare.gov.
This online shopping website will be available starting in October.

You can buy a plan directly from a health insurance company or from a broker who
may represent several insurers.

You can enroll in an employer-sponsored plan if your employer offers group
coverage.

You may be able to qualify for a low-cost or free government plan, such as
Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program.

Tips to get ready for health care reform

Stay up-to-date by signing up to receive updates about information, products,
and services.

Make a list of questions before you choose your health plan. For example, "Can I
stay with my current doctor?" or "Will this plan cover my health costs when I'm
traveling?"

Learn the basics of how health insurance works, like what a deductible, an
out-of-pocket maximum, or a copayment is.

Gather basic information about your household income to see if you qualify for
tax credit towards the cost of health insurance coverage.

Decide what you need and set your budget.

Ask your employer about changes to the health insurance plan(s) they might
offer.

Explore your current health insurance choices.

For more information, visit healthcare.gov or bcbsnm.com/health-care-reform.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2013 Las Cruces Sun-News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved

                             486 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday

U.S. touts benefits of health law for African-Americans

LENGTH: 425  words


A Detroit family of four with an income of $50,000 a year could buy insurance at
healthcare.gov for as little as $126 a month after subsidies, the U.S.
government announced Monday as part of a report on how federal health care
reform impacts African-Americans.


At the same time, a Harris poll released today found uninsured Americans are the
least likely to have heard about the health insurance marketplace - meaning some
Detroiters could miss out on health insurance regardless of the price. The
health insurance marketplace at healthcare.gov allows citizens to price shop for
health plans and apply for government subsidies.
The federal Affordable Care Act is intended to add millions of Americans to the
ranks of the insured by providing government subsidies to help pay for premiums.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued its report Monday to
show how the law will address a disparity of health coverage that exists for
African-Americans.
Six out of 10 uninsured African-Americans who may be eligible for coverage
through the Health Insurance Marketplace might qualify for Medicaid, the
Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), or tax credits to help with premium
costs, according to the report.
"Through the Health Insurance Marketplace, 6.8 million uninsured
African-Americans have new options for affordable health coverage that covers a
range of benefits, including important preventive services with no out-of-pocket
costs," Kathleen Sebelius, U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, said in
a press release.
Michigan is home to 1.23 million African-Americans who will be eligible to buy
insurance on the Internet marketplace, according to the report. The number
includes 241,000 or 19.5 percent with no health coverage.
Sixty percent of 1,005 Americans polled online by Harris Interactive Nov. 4-11
said they feel informed about the Affordable Care Act, up from 48 percent asked
in a similar poll taken in July. But among the uninsured, 31 percent said they
had not even heard of the new health insurance exchanges.
Don Hazaert, director of Michigan Consumers for Healthcare, said Michigan turned
away millions that could have been used to educate citizens about their health
care options. The Republican-controlled Legislature turned down $21 million for
educational outreach.
"Lacking that broad education component is a setback," Hazaert said, "and that's
contributing to consumers not being as aware as they should be of their
enrollment options."
<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                             487 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   financeME

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Heading for health insurance

LENGTH: 98  words


Dubai Health Authority Law No. 11 of 2013 promises compulsory medical insurance
for all. We look at the effect of this law on healthcare providers and outline
the law itself

The Dubai Health Authority Law No. 11 came into effect on January 1st 2014.
Compulsory health insurance cover for companies with over 1,000 employees came
into effect on October 31st 2014, companies with 100 to 999 employees must have
health insurance for all employees by 31st July 2015, and companies with less
than 100 employees must have health insurance for all employees by 30th June
2016. 2014 CPI Financial.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 881


                          Copyright 2015 CPI Financial
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                             488 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

A consumer guide to the exchanges NAVIGATING HEALTH CARE - THE POST-DISPATCH
GUIDE SPECIAL REPORT

BYLINE:  By MARY AGNES CAREY and JULIE APPLEBY o  Kaiser Health News

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. R5

LENGTH: 765 words


The new health insurance marketplaces, also known as exchanges, are designed to
allow consumers to comparison shop for health insurance, just like they can for
airline tickets or hotel rooms.

If done well, proponents say, the exchanges could make it easier to buy health
insurance and possibly lead to lower prices because of increased competition. If
designed or marketed poorly, the exchanges will not attract healthy people and
will instead be left with a higher percentage of sicker people that will cause
premiums to rise.

Here are some answers to common questions about the exchanges:

What is an exchange, as envisioned by the health law?

It's an online marketplace where individuals and small employers will be able to
shop for insurance coverage. Enrollment begins Tuesday for policies that will go
into effect on Jan. 1. The exchanges will also help people find out if they are
eligible for federal subsidies to help cover the cost of coverage or if they are
eligible for Medicaid, the federal-state health insurance program for the poor.

Will all states have exchanges?

Yes. The federal government is setting them up in 27 states, including Missouri.
Twenty-three other states, including Illinois, and the District of Columbia
chose to either run their own exchanges or partner with the federal government.

Will anyone be allowed to buy from the exchanges?

Most people will be able to purchase coverage on the exchanges, but the
marketplaces are geared for individuals who do not get insurance through work
and who buy their own health care coverage. Immigrants who are in the country
illegally will be barred from buying insurance on the exchanges. Most states and
the federal marketplace will allow businesses with 50 or fewer workers to
purchase through the exchanges.

Do I have to buy my health insurance on the exchange?

No. If your employer offers health insurance, you can enroll through your job,
just as you do now. People without work-based coverage can also shop for
coverage on or off the exchange. However, if consumers purchase plans not being
sold on the exchange, they will not be eligible for subsidies to help cover the
cost of the insurance. If you are a young adult up to age 26, you may be able to
get coverage through your parents' health plan.

Are exchanges the only place where I can get subsidized coverage?

Not exactly. Under a little-known rule proposed by the administration in June,
consumers will be able to buy an exchange-approved plan - and receive a health
law subsidy - from the insurance company itself rather than from the exchange.

I am on Medicare. Do I need to use the exchange?

No. Medicare is not part of the health insurance exchanges. As a Medicare
beneficiary, you can enroll in the program's traditional fee-for-service program
or in a Medicare Advantage plan, where Medicare enrollees get coverage through
private health insurance plans.

What about federal workers?

Most federal workers will continue to get their health coverage through the
Federal Employees Health Benefits Program and will not be required to purchase
coverage through the health law's marketplaces.

What will the coverage sold on the exchanges look like?

Plans will have to offer a set of "essential benefits" that include hospital,
emergency, maternity and pediatric care as well as coverage for prescription
drugs and lab services. Annual cost-sharing, or the amount consumers pay for
out-of-pocket for care - but not premiums - will be capped at $6,350 for
individual policies and $12,700 for family plans in 2014.

What if I can't afford the premiums?

The health law provides sliding scale subsidies to help pay premiums for people
up to 400 percent of the poverty level, which is currently about $46,000 for an
individual and about $94,000 for a family of four. There's also some financial
help with cost-sharing for individuals and families with incomes of up to 250
percent of the poverty level. Recipients must pay a portion of their household
income - 2 percent to 9.5 percent - toward the cost of the premium.

Does everyone on the exchange get a subsidy?

No, subsidies will be limited to people who meet specific income requirements.
In addition, individuals with access to insurance through their jobs but who
decide to purchase insurance on the exchange instead are eligible for subsidies
only if their employer's plan does not cover at least 60 percent of estimated
medical expenses or if it would cost the worker more than 9.5 percent of
household income.

Will all insurers have to offer policies through the exchange?

No. Insurers are not required to sell through the exchanges.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  GRAPHIC by Post-Dispatch - HOW TO GET HEALTH COVERAGE BEGINNING IN
2014

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                             489 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

'Unaffordable' Care Act's unpopularity grows

BYLINE: By JOEL HAY, For the Register

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 650 words


The Affordable Care Act, since its inception, has never polled favorably among a
majority of Americans. For months the administration has pulled out all the
stops to get people excited about Obamacare in preparation for the state health
insurance exchanges' rollout starting today.

A recent Pew Research Center/USA Today poll finds that 53 percent of Americans
oppose the health care law. The results are even less favorable among those
lacking health insurance who would presumably benefit most from Obamacare
implementation. In a recent Wall Street Journal/NBC Poll, 76 percent of
uninsured respondents said they didn't understand the law. Only 32 percent of
the uninsured thought they were "fairly" or "very" likely to use the new health
insurance exchanges.

Obamacare's popularity is unlikely to improve after it is fully rolled out.
There have already been so many implementation snags that one of the key job
killing provisions of the law - that employers with 50 or more employees have to
make health plans available to their workers - has been postponed at least a
year. Twenty-seven states have decided not to run health insurance exchanges,
requiring the federal government to step in and take over. Only 20 states have
opted for the Medicaid expansion to cover adults with incomes below 138 percent
of poverty, even though Obamacare offers to pay for more than 90 percent of that
expansion with federal rather than state funds.

Even if implementation problems can be overcome, there are reasons why Obamacare
will remain unpopular, particularly among those lacking health insurance.
Everyone will be mandated to buy health insurance, but only the small minority
with large health care costs will see tangible benefits. A median-income family
will have to pay $3,365 for health insurance (even after government subsidies)
and could still be liable for an additional $10,400 in co-pays, deductibles and
payments for covered medical services. After 2015, if they opt out of health
care coverage they will face a $2,085 mandate penalty. While some of these
families will receive more than they contribute for health care costs after
Obamacare, most will not. Yet, all families will pay either the insurance
mandates or penalties.

The Obama administration has had nearly four years to plan for the health
exchanges rollout. If ineptitude was the only problem, then that would be one
thing. Unfortunately, there is already a strong whiff of Inside-the-Beltway
favoritism and cronyism. President Barack Obama came to office pledging "the
toughest ethics rule in history." Now we're seeing former Obama administration
officials who designed the Affordable Care Act cashing in.

Exceeding the lobbyist count for any other industry, the health care private
sector now has 2,740 "revolving door" lobbyists who used to work for government
but are now helping private companies shape Obamacare rules and regulations in
their favor. Many of these lobbyists served as top agency officials,
congressional chiefs of staff and even as members of the House and Senate.

Thirty-four former staffers to Sen. Max Baucus, the Finance Committee chairman
who oversaw the drafting of Obamacare, are congressional lobbyists. As one
prominent example, attorney Liz Fowler helped draft Obamacare as chief health
counsel for the Senate Finance Committee and then joined the Obama
administration's Affordable Care Act implementation team. Now she is running
global health policy for Johnson & Johnson, the medical and pharmaceuticals
conglomerate, which strongly backed Obamacare and will profit handsomely from
it. Fowler is not even required to register as a lobbyist, since she's a
full-time employee for the pharmaceutical giant.

Who could have predicted that a gigantic new federal spending program would
generate incompetence and cronyism?

Joel W. Hay is a professor at the USC Schaeffer Center for Health Policy

and Economics.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                             490 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 8, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

WELFARE REFORM AND IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 356 words


The 1996 welfare reform law ended most legal immigrants' access to welfare
benefits, at least until they have been in the country for five years. (Illegal
immigrants never qualified, except for emergency aid.)

Refugees - those allowed into the United States because they were found to have
valid fears of persecution - were allowed to continue receiving public benefits,
with a cutoff caveat. Refugees who began receiving benefits after Aug. 22, 1996,
the day the law was signed, lose their benefits after the seventh anniversary of
their arrival.

Congress has since restored many benefits to legal immigrants who arrived before
the law was signed. The law expires in October. Here is a look at the benefits
and eligibility for legal immigrants:

Temporary Assistance for Needy Families - Cash assistance to poor families as
well as job training, education, transportation and child care to aid them in
getting a job. Benefits were cut to most recipients - citizens or noncitizens -
after five years. Legal immigrants who arrived here after the law was signed are
barred from receiving these benefits for five years.

Food stamps - Coupons or debit cards to buy groceries. Legal immigrants who
arrived after the law was signed are barred from receiving food stamps until
they've worked here for 10 years.

Supplemental Security Income - Cash assistance to poor elderly, disabled or
blind. Legal immigrants who arrived after the law was signed are barred from
applying for this aid until they become citizens. Refugees who began receiving
SSI after the law was signed will lose these benefits once they've been here for
seven years.

Medicaid - Health insurance program for the poor. Legal immigrants who arrived
after the law was signed cannot apply for Medicaid for five years. But all
noncitizens have access to emergency benefits.

State Children's Health Insurance Program - Health coverage for poor, uninsured
children. Legal immigrants who arrived after the law was signed cannot apply for
benefits for five years. But immigrants' children who were born here qualify,
even if their parents and older siblings do not.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE ; WELFARE REFORM ; SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

                             491 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 2, 1998, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Law Gives Patients Right To Appeal Decisions

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 136 words


New Yorkers who are denied medical treatment when their insurers refuse to pay
have the right to an outside appeal under legislation signed yesterday by Gov.
George E. Pataki.

The law, signed at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan,
guarantees "prompt, independent and professional appeals," the Governor said.

The law says that for a $50 application fee -- which will be returned if the
appeal is successful and will be waived for those who cannot afford it -- a
patient can get a second, binding opinion on whether a treatment is medically
necessary. The law goes into effect in July.

Currently, appeals of insurance company decisions are handled internally.

Richard Coorsh, a spokesman for the Health Insurance Association of America,
said the industry had opposed the legislation.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company

                             492 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              April 1, 2016 Friday

Legislators deny FSC health insurance card proposal amid privacy concerns

LENGTH: 164  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The International Association of Privacy Professionals has issued
the following news release:



  Taiwanese lawmakers voted to postpone the Financial Supervisory Commission's
proposed "brokerage account-opening service" for National Health Insurance
cards, citing concerns that the program will not adequately protect personal
data, The China Post reports. Legislators further maintain that the suggested
services could break the National Health Insurance Law, which stipulates that
the NHI cards are solely used for health care purposes. Democratic Progressive
Party Legislator Hsu Kuo-yung felt that since "all Taiwanese are insured through
the national health insurance system, and nearly everyone owns a NHI card, so
such a move would have major implications and risks for privacy," the report
states, an allegation FSC Chairwoman Wang Li-ling denies.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                             493 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             August 12, 2011 Friday
                             Politifact.com Edition

PAWLENTY SAYS OBAMACARE IS PATTERNED AFTER ROMNEYCARE

BYLINE: ANGIE DROBNIC HOLAN

SECTION: POLITIFACT

LENGTH: 997 words


"Obamacare was patterned after (Mitt Romney's) plan in Massachusetts."

Tim Pawlenty on Thursday, August 11th, 2011 in a debate in Ames, Iowa

* * *

THE RULING: TRUE

He calls it "Obamneycare."

That's the word that candidate Tim Pawlenty uses to express the similarity
between the 2010 national health care law signed by President Barack Obama and
the 2006 Massachusetts health care law signed by then-Gov. Mitt Romney.

Pawlenty, a former two-term governor of Minnesota, hesitated to push that attack
during a debate in June. But with the race for the Republican nomination
tightening up, he made the point forcefully at the Aug. 11, 2011, debate in
Ames, Iowa.

"Obamacare was patterned after Mitt's plan in Massachusetts. And for Mitt or
anyone else to say that there aren't substantial similarities or they're not
essentially the same plan, it just isn't credible. So that's why I called it
Obamneycare, and I think that's a fair label, and I'm happy to call it that
again tonight," Pawlenty said.

So are the national health plan and the Massachusetts plan that similar? In a
word, Yes.

We've explored their similarities before in previous fact-checks, when liberals
have made similar statements defending the Obama plan against critics who
labeled it extreme.

We'll review the two plans' similarities again here.

- Individual mandate to buy health insurance. Everyone in Massachusetts must
purchase health insurance or else pay a penalty; the same goes for the federal
plan, though the penalty structures vary between the two.

- Employer responsibilities for offering health insurance. Companies with more
than 10 employees in Massachusetts need to offer health insurance or else pay a
penalty. The federal law sets the bar for companies at 50 employees, though
technically the bill isn't quite a mandate. Instead, employers pay fines only if
their workers qualify for tax credits to buy insurance.

- Health insurance exchanges. Both the Massachusetts and national plans involve
the use of voluntary "exchanges" that individuals and small businesses can use
to purchase private-sector health insurance. These exchanges are designed to
offer a range of plans with different benefits and premium levels.

- Affordability subsidies. Under both plans, lower-income individuals and
families can receive government subsidies to help them pay their health
insurance premiums. In the Massachusetts plan, subsidies are allotted on a
sliding scale up to 300 percent of the federal poverty level. Under the national
plan, the sliding-scale subsidies go up to 400 percent of the federal poverty
level.

- Expansion of Medicaid. The Massachusetts plan expands Medicaid to all children
up to 300 percent of the federal poverty level. The federal plan also expands
Medicaid, but in a different fashion, offering it to all individuals (not just
children) up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level.

- Insurance market regulation. Both plans restructure the insurance market, in
similar but slightly different ways. They handle the individual and small-group
markets differently. In Massachusetts, dependents up to age 25 can be covered on
their parents' plan, while the federal law allows such dependent coverage up to
age 26.

Still, there are some differences between the federal law and the Massachusetts
law. Two of the biggest differences:

- Cost containment. Critics of the Massachusetts plan have taken it to task for
its lack of cost-containment provisions. The federal law makes changes to
Medicare that are intended to lower program costs, such as restructuring how
payments are made to Medicare Advantage plans -- the HMO option under Medicare.
Since Medicare is a federal program, the Massachusetts plan does not address
this issue.

- Financing. Both the Massachusetts plan and federal law are financed in part by
revenue generated from the individual and employer mandates. But the
Massachusetts plan's financing is heavily dependent on leveraging federal
matching funds, while the federal law, in addition to cost savings from
Medicare, imposes taxes on drugmakers, device manufacturers, health insurers and
indoor tanning services. It also taxes high-cost ("Cadillac") health care plans.
The Massachusetts plan does not do any of these things.

We should note that the plans are so similar, we made a quiz, selecting passages
from each plan to see if our readers could tell the difference. (Take the quiz
yourself!)

Pawlenty said that "Obamacare was patterned after Mitt's plan in Massachusetts."
In rating that statement, we noticed that Pawlenty phrased his statement
carefully. He didn't say it was the same plan, but instead said that the
national law was "patterned" after the Massachusetts law, and they had
"substantial similarities." He's correct that the plans, thought not completely
identical, are very similar in structure. They both require everyone to have
health insurance or pay a penalty; they both leave the current insurance system
in place; they both expand coverage for the uninsured through subsidies or
Medicaid. Because his statement accurately categorized the plans as similar --
but not exactly the same -- we rate Pawlenty's statement True.

* * *

About this statement:

Published: Friday, August 12th, 2011 at 11:12 a.m.

Subjects: Health Care

Sources: Fox News, Republican candidates debate, Aug. 11, 2011, accessed via CQ
Transcriptswire; PolitiFact, Krugman calls Senate health care bill similar to
law in Massachusetts, Feb. 4, 2010; PolitiFact Texas, Howard Dean says the
health care bill that President Barack Obama signed is like the one Mitt Romney
signed as the governor of Massachusetts, Dec. 5, 2010;

Kaiser Family Foundation, summary of new health reform law, accessed May 28,
2011; Kaiser Family Foundation, summary of Massachusetts health reform law,
September 2009; The Boston Globe, Countdown to coverage, June 18, 2007; E-mail
interview with Dr. Jonathan Gruber of MIT, May 18, 2011

Researched by: Angie Drobnic Holan, Louis Jacobson, Ciara O'Rourke

Edited by: Bill Adair

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2) PHOTO: Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty was one of eight
candidates to take part in a debate in Ames, Iowa, on Aug. 11, 2011.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                             494 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 3, 2011 Thursday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

INSURERS GET HELP; FLORIDIANS DON'T

SECTION: NATIONAL; TIMES EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 462 words


By refusing to implement federal health care reform, Gov. Rick Scott and
Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty are impeding consumer protections that
Floridians are entitled to receive. Scott claims that if the U.S. Supreme Court
upholds the Affordable Care Act, the state will have plenty of time to prepare.
But some of the law's provisions are already in effect or will be soon, and this
politically motivated decision to block progress unfairly hinders Floridians'
access to affordable health insurance.

McCarty has decided to return a $1 million federal grant - money his office had
applied for - that would have paid for a system that evaluates the rates charged
by large-group insurers. This might not sound like a big deal, but the money was
to be used to improve oversight of large-group health insurers seeking rate
increases and to help implement new, more consumer-friendly medical loss ratio
rules.

The new federal medical loss ratios direct insurance companies, depending upon
the group size, to spend at least 80 percent or 85 percent of every premium
dollar to provide or improve health care rather than on big insurance executive
salaries, marketing blitzes, profits and other administrative expenses.
Congressional Democrats say they won that requirement as a concession for giving
up on a public option for health insurance that was opposed by Republicans and
private insurers.

These rules, which went into effect this year, will ensure that people get real
value for their health insurance dollar. But McCarty's office claims it is under
no obligation to help enforce the federal medical loss ratios since its office
views federal health reform as unconstitutional in light of Monday's ruling by
U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson in Pensacola. Instead, the Office of Insurance
Regulation plans to follow state law that currently imposes medical loss ratios
as high as 80 percent but sets the ratios for most health insurance plans at 65
percent to 70 percent - rates that are much more generous to health insurers.

Regardless of Vinson's ruling, federal health reform has not been overturned and
is still the law of the land. Two federal judges have found the law
constitutional, while two have found it unconstitutional, and it may be years
before the cases make their way to the U.S. Supreme Court for a final decision.
In the meantime, Florida should be following federal law instead of ignoring it.
That is what our nation's legal system requires, and it would make health
insurance in Florida more affordable and available. Floridians are entitled to
benefit from federal health care reform, and it is fundamentally unfair for the
governor and the insurance commissioner to work against the interests of the
very residents they are supposed to be serving.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                             495 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 24, 2013 Sunday
                                 ONLINE EDITION

Mass. health reform experiment enters second phase

BYLINE: By JIM DOYLE jdoyle@post-dispatch.com 314-340-8372

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1858 words


BOSTON o Seven years after ordering near-universal health insurance coverage for
its residents, Massachusetts is still struggling to contain spiraling health
care costs.

The Massachusetts health reform "experiment," signed into law by former Gov.
Mitt Romney, is widely viewed as a precursor to President Barack Obama's
Affordable Care Act.

But if there's one thing that can be learned from Massachusetts, it's that
"access" alone to health care is not a panacea for fixing a broken health care
system. Perhaps that's why Romney, the Republican presidential nominee, did not
endorse the Affordable Care Act as a cure for the nation's health spending woes.

Mandating health insurance coverage for most all citizens has had little success
in reining in Massachusetts' medical spending. The Boston area, for instance,
remains one of the nation's costliest places to obtain health care.

"On a per capita basis, we have one of the most expensive health care systems in
the country," Andrew Dreyfus, president and chief executive of Blue Cross Blue
Shield of Massachusetts, told a recent conference in Boston of the Association
of Health Care Journalists. "If we do nothing, we're going to bankrupt this
state."

Massachusetts' politicians and health industry leaders have taken the next step.
Several months ago, as a follow-up to its 2006 law mandating health insurance
coverage, the Massachusetts state legislature passed a new law that sets goals
for cost controls for hospitals, health systems and insurers.

This law provides a glimpse into the fierce struggle that federal officials are
sure to face in attempting to cut health care costs on a national level.

Massachusetts politicians now speak of the Massachusetts Health Reform Law of
2006, which was implemented in 2007, as simply the opening salvo in a series of
legislative skirmishes that are necessary to reform a dysfunctional health
system.

The 2006 law established the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority,
a state agency that acts as an insurance broker to offer private health
insurance plans to residents. The state imposes financial penalties on
individuals who do not obtain insurance, and also penalizes businesses with 10
or more employees who do not offer health coverage.

Mass. Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, told the journalists' conference that both
major political parties worked together to create health care reform in his
state but, more importantly, "stuck together to implement it."

The governor said that 98 percent of Massachusetts residents now have health
insurance; more than 90 percent of residents have a primary care physician; and
76 percent of businesses in the state offer health insurance to their employees.

And, he added, expanding health insurance coverage to uninsured residents added
only about 1 percent to the state's health care costs.

SPENDING GOALS

Still, the governor and others emphasize that "cost containment" is the next
goal in Massachusetts' ongoing health reform initiative. In August, Patrick
signed a health care cost control bill whose aim is to slow the state's rapid
growth of health spending.

Massachusetts state government, which is required by law to pass a balanced
budget, has experienced cuts in most other spheres of activity. But health care
costs continue to grow exponentially - squeezing other parts of the state budget
and outstripping new tax revenue.

The Boston Globe reported in September that medical debt remains virtually
unchanged since 2006. About 17.5 percent of Massachusetts residents said they
had difficulty paying medical bills in 2010.

"Health care cost containment is much more complex than wrestling with the
access issue," said David Seltz, executive director of the Health Policy
Commission, a state body established by the new law to track cost-containment
issues from a consumer perspective. The commission is governed by an 11-person
board that has "one of the strongest conflict of interest protections in state
government," he said.

Among other concerns, the commission's primary functions include examining
changes in health care management; conducting a cost and marketing review of
health care prices from a consumer's perspective; and taking steps to ensure
that consumers know how much a specific medical procedure will cost.

The Affordable Care Act focuses primarily on efforts to ensure access for all
U.S. citizens to health care, rather than ways to achieve cost controls.
However, it also established a 15-member Independent Payment Advisory Board,
which has the task of recommending savings in Medicare that do not affect
coverage or quality.

Massachusetts' new cost-containment law doesn't set a specific budget for health
care. But the state's health industry leaders have agreed to establish a goal
that medical spending not exceed the overall growth rate of the state budget in
2014, or about 3.6 percent.

The commission plans in 2015 to begin identifying those Massachusetts health
systems and hospitals whose cost growth doesn't meet the state's goals.

Still, the law does not appear to have enough regulatory teeth to take
significant action against any offenders.

Seltz emphasized that the commission is not an enforcement agency; it's a
monitoring agency.

"Let's try to do this together - with government, payers and insurers," he said.
"There's a sense that we're in this together."

Blue Cross' Dreyfus agreed that health systems, hospitals and insurers must work
together to "improve quality and lower cost. ... We still have quality, safety
and reliability issues."

Still, hospital administrators and patient advocates in Massachusetts and
elsewhere worry that attempts to drive down health costs will result in more
costly and intrusive regulations.

"What we get with this is a lot of regulation," said Dr. Tim Ferris, vice
president for population health at Partners Healthcare system in Massachusetts.
"So there's no question this is having a profound effect on every provider.

"It's different this time. It's not just insurers and providers, it's
government," he said. "Is the state entering the private doctor-patient
relationship?"

Some doctors fear an erosion of their autonomy in medical decision-making.
Consumer advocates worry that patients may be left with fewer choices.

Innovation that will help achieve cost savings, Ferris said, is most likely to
happen through "physicians who persuade other physicians. ... Cutting leaves the
status quo in place with all of its flaws - or you can change the payment
system."

REDUCing COSTS

Private industry has taken the lead in Massachusetts in designing health reform
models.

In 2009, Blue Cross - the state's largest insurer - set up an experimental
project called "Alternative Quality Contract," which is designed to reduce the
growth of health spending and to improve quality of care and health outcomes.

The program, which was reviewed favorably by Harvard medical researchers, has
changed the health payment structure in Massachusetts from the conventional "pay
for service" model to a "pay for quality" system that rewards the insurer and
its provider network for keeping patients healthy.

Dreyfus said that 85 percent of Blue Cross health providers in Massachusetts now
use the new contracts, which cover all medical services. The insurer pays a
"global budget" fee per member, per month - depending on a person's health
status. Cost-effective management of that person's health is a "shared risk"
undertaken by Blue Cross and its network of health providers. If a patient's
care runs over budget, Blue Cross and its health providers share the excess
costs. If the patient's care is under budget, the insurer and providers share
the savings.

"It's starting to work. It's a good model," said Dreyfus, adding that the new
contracts have held price increases to a 2 percent to 3 percent increase for the
last couple of years. "But it's a means, not an end."

Similar arrangements called Accountable Care Organizations are cropping up in
various states, including Missouri. The Affordable Care Act has provided seed
money for some of these experimental projects.

Partners, which is Massachusetts' largest hospital system, has participated in a
Medicare demonstration project that identified its highest-risk patients. With
an average age of 75, they took on average 12 medications, and among the
patients' problems were many cases of dementia, Parkinson's disease and heart
failure.

Partners' Ferris said the health system hired "care managers" to focus on these
patients and explored ways to maintain their health. After three years, he said,
the program was able to lower the hospitalization rate of these high-risk
patients by 20 percent, resulting in substantial cost savings.

Pediatric cardiologists at Boston Children's Hospital have pursued a novel
effort to eliminate unnecessary costs and provide the highest quality care.

Several years ago they first tried clinical practice guidelines, a tool meant to
standardize "best practices" and reduce variation in health care. But medicine
is constantly changing. The doctors found the guidelines often obsolete,
offering few insights into improving care or how to deal with unexpected
findings.

So the 10 pediatric cardiologists began gathering data on their own clinical
decisions in treating children's symptoms and conditions. They created
Standardized Clinical Assessment and Management Plans (SCAMPs), a quality
improvement program that collects and analyzes data on clinical decisions and
poses clinical questions for further evaluation.

For dozens of medical conditions, SCAMP software has an algorithm with a
decision tree that guides doctors in how to treat each patient. Departures from
recommended care are expected. Doctors write explanations for their decisions,
which can be used to adjust and refine the SCAMP.

Clinicians need "flexible, evidence-based standards" that continually improve
care while decreasing unnecessary testing and reducing costs, said Dr. Kathy
Jenkins, senior vice president and chief quality and safety officer at Boston
Children's and a professor of pediatrics at Harvard University. She credited
SCAMPs with a reduction of about 26 percent in certain patient charges at Boston
Children's.

SCAMPs programs have been adopted at other New England hospitals and leading
institutions across the country, including the Children's National Medical
Center in Washington.

Donald Berwick, a Massachusetts health reformer and the former director of the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services in Obama's administration, agreed that
increased quality of care could result in savings.

"Better care costs less than worse care," he said, pointing to such examples as
the Nuka tribal health system in Alaska as well as Project Echo in New Mexico,
an innovative health project aimed at rural and under-served areas. "Better
care. Better health. Lower costs. It exists."

Still, key players in Massachusetts' lucrative health industry acknowledge that
cutting costs will not be easy.

"We're in for a rocky road, nationally," Blue Cross' Dreyfus said.

"The key here is pace," Partners' executive Ferris said. "If we go too fast,
we'll lose the (health care) providers and the patients."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                             496 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday

What does new health plan mean for me? // State's insurance director compares
federal, state programs

BYLINE: Aaron Nicodemus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1189 words


Jon Kingsdale is the executive director of the Commonwealth Health Insurance
Connector Authority, the independent agency established in Massachusetts'
landmark health care insurance legislation of 2006. The legislation mandated
that every person in Massachusetts have health insurance, and has succeeded in
insuring more than 97 percent of the state's residents. Massachusetts has the
highest rate of health insurance coverage in the nation.

Here are some questions for the state's health insurance director.

Question: If I have health insurance through my job, is it going to cost more
under the federal plan?

Answer: "No, it shouldn't. I'm sure some people claim that it does. Both the
federal and the state plans have proposed short-term constraints on (health
insurance) premiums."

Q: Are there going to be longer wait times to get a doctor's appointment and to
see a specialist?

A: "Nationally, there have been some shortages of physicians, and here in
Massachusetts out on the Cape and in the Berkshires, where people have had
significant waiting times. All of that predates reform. The national reform
should have zero impact on availability of physicians here in Massachusetts in
the short term. In the longer term, there are some increases in payments by
Medicare and Medicaid for primary care physicians. That should encourage
physicians coming out of medical school, a little bit, to go into primary care."

Q: If I don't have insurance now, will there be government help to get
insurance, and how will that work?

A: "A number of categories will benefit. Starting this year, kids of families up
to the age of 26 can go onto their family health insurance coverage. That's
already true, to a limited extent, under Massachusetts health insurance. It's
limited to no more than two years, the parents have to pay employer sponsored
insurance that is tax deductible. When they add their kid, that part is not tax
deductible. And it only applies to insured health plans.

"The federal plan would apply across the board to self-insured and insured
plans, so it actually enlarges the existing pool. It's a very good deal for
Massachusetts. That's one area where people might see a small increase in
premiums, because if thousands of people add their adult kids to their family
plans, the average family premium could go up a little bit to accommodate the
fact that more kids have been added.

"Another major category is the low-income small employer with 25 or fewer
low-income workers. They will be eligible for a 25 or 50 percent tax credit for
the cost of the insurance.

"There is also a $250 rebate to seniors for prescription costs."

Q: Is everyone going to be forced to get health insurance?

A: "I think the national framework very much follows the state framework. There
are exemptions for religious beliefs, and for affordability. The federal
framework is more forgiving than the state. There are going to be some
differences, but they are going to be pretty modest and they're not going to
affect many people. By and large, the answer is, the same approach we have
requiring individuals to participate in insurance is now written into national
law. We're the model."

Q: Can insurance companies turn someone down if they have a pre-existing
condition?

A: "They cannot turn you down in Massachusetts, and, over time, the same will
apply nationally. There is something else related to that, which is, can health
plans exclude from coverage a pre-existing condition, which is different than
turning you down. There is some ability to do that in Massachusetts. Let's say
you sign up because you're six months pregnant, they can refuse to cover your
pregnancy. Under the national legislation, by the time we get to 2014, that will
be completely precluded. You can't do it. Starting in 2010, health insurers
can't do it for kids, at all."

Q: If I lose my job, can I keep my same insurance?

A: "Right now, we have COBRA, which applies to most people. That is a national
law already, and that will continue to be the way that most people hold onto
their employer-sponsored insurance. They can keep that for 18 to 36 months ...
The alternative is individual insurance that you're not guaranteed to get, they
can jack the rates up on you or kick you off of, or whatever. That all goes
away, the idea that you need to keep your employer-sponsored insurance to have
good insurance. That's disappearing, and we've already seen that in
Massachusetts. A lot of people who might have been tempted to go on COBRA
actually just come to the Connector, and buy non-group insurance. That's the
real essence of a lot of this reform. ... People will have access to health
insurance that is priced the same as group insurance, and is guaranteed the way
group insurance is."

Q: But it's not public insurance?

A: "For low-income people, the state is actually subsidizing insurance
(MassHealth). For higher income people, it's not state-subsidized the way an
employer subsidizes insurance, but it has all the guarantees. In some ways, it's
a little better, because we offer such a broad choice of health plans. The COBRA
person who is laid off, in most cases, has one choice, that's their employer's
health insurance plan. The alternative is to come to the Connector, to the
Commonwealth Choice program, and there are literally dozens of options at
different benefit levels."

Q: If I have kids and several part-time jobs that don't offer insurance, and I
don't qualify for MassHealth, how will my children be covered?

A: "If they are income-qualified for public subsidy now, which is $66,000 or
less a year in income for a family of four, the kids go into Medicaid but the
parents go into our Commonwealth Care program that subsidizes private insurers.
That's going to change in 2014, when the federal law takes effect. Everyone
earning under $29,000 for a family of four will go into Medicaid, the family
won't be split anymore. Above $29,000 to $88,000 will all be eligible for what
we now call Commonwealth Care. It will be 100 percent subsidized by tax credits
from the federal government, rather than the way the state administers it now."

Q: What is the health care coverage for legal immigrants?

A: "Legal immigrants are in. Right now, that is fully a state responsibility. As
of 2014, that will become fully a federal responsibility."

Q: The federal health insurance law has a different set of standards, rules and
benefits than the state's law. Which will be enforced?

A: "Most of the impacts of the federal law don't kick in until 2011 or as late
as 2014. It's a pretty complicated set of issues to parse through, to measure
where there's gaps between the federal benefit and the state benefit, or the
federal requirement and the state requirement. We've got a couple of years to do
that, so stay tuned."

Contact Aaron Nicodemus by e-mail at anicodemus@telegram.com

ART: PHOTOS

CUTLINE: (1) Massachusetts health insurance director Jon Kingsdale gives his
views about the state's health care program and the recently passed federal
plan. (2) Jon Kingsdale, executive director of the Commonwealth Health Insurance
Connector Authority.

PHOTOG: T&G Staff Photos/CHRISTINE PETERSON

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jon Kingsdale is the executive director of the Commonwealth Health
Insurance Connector Authority, the independent agency established in
Massachusetts' landmark health care insurance legislation of 2006. The
legislation mandated that every person in Massachusetts have health insurance,
and has succeeded in insuring more than 97 percent of the state's residents.
Massachusetts has the highest rate of health insurance coverage in the nation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

                             497 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright (c) 2013 State Bar of Montana
                               The Montana Lawyer

                                 October, 2013

                               The Montana Lawyer

                              39 Montana Lawyer 29

LENGTH: 748 words

FEATURE STORY: AFFORDABLE CARE ACT SIMPLIFIED

By Jim Edwards and Richard Miltenberger, Mountain West Benefits

Jim Edwards is an advisor to the Montana State Bar health trust. Send him your
questions at info@askmwb.com

TEXT:

    [*29]

   The Affordable Care Act (a/k/a "ObamaCare"), provides an opportunity for law
firms to lower the cost of providing benefits and to leverage the nuances of the
law to their advantage. Not all employers are going to use the law to their
benefit, but they should: this article will attempt to simplify things so that
you will be able to make sense out it and make plans for its implementation
beginning January 1, 2014.

   Some of the key features of the law are the requirement that all individuals
purchase health insurance, and then making marketplace changes that simplify
that purchase, and, most importantly, the law provides for a subsidy to most
families so they can afford to buy coverage. Other elements of the law include
coverage enhancements and the elimination of exclusions related to pre-existing
conditions; the health insurance marketplace is also being revamped so that the
traditional ways in which health insurance companies rated small groups and
individual applicants. Other key features include the implementation of a new
health insurance exchange which will be called the Montana Health Insurance
Marketplace. This is not the actual health insurance company or policy, but will
be much like Travelocity so as to enable health insurance shoppers to compare
policies & premiums.

   The law does little to lower the actual retail cost of policies, but for
individuals who qualify for subsidies their out-of-pocket cost to purchase the
health insurance may be much lower. Under the Act, the amount an individual will
pay out of pocket for their health insurance policy on the Exchange is tied to
their income and its relationship to the Federal Poverty Level (FPL) for
example, a person who is single and earns $ 20,108 per year, has an income that
is 175% of the FPL. The maximum amount this individual will have to pay for
single insurance coverage is 5.15% of her income, which amounts to $ 86 per
month.

   For a family of four, earning $ 47,100 annually, that income equates to 200%
of the FPL. This family will pay no more than 6.3% of their income towards
insurance when purchased on the exchange; this means their premium share will be
no more than $ 246/month. There are four levels of coverage available on the
Exchange, the best being platinum which is designed to cover 90% of health care
expenses. Next is the gold; the third level is silver, and the final level of
coverage is bronze, this level of coverage is intended to pay for 60% of the
individuals health care expenses. Since the amount of the subsidy is tied to the
second least expensive silver policy offered on the exchange, it is possible for
a person to lower their out-of-pocket premium by simply moving down to the less
expensive bronze coverage level.

   Perhaps the most onerous provision of the ACA has been delayed until January
1, 2015; this is the implementation of the employer "play-or-pay" penalties. A
law firm with 50 or more employees -- which either offered no health insurance
or what the law deems as unaffordable or insufficient insurance, was to be
subject to either a tax penalty. This has been delayed until 2015, with some
hoping it will never go into effect. The measurement of the fine, and even the
determination of the number of employees can get rather complex, and as this
article is intended to provide a general review of the affordable care act, we
will not attempt to explain this large employer element in detail.

   Many law firms in Montana have employees who are part time, or for other
reasons are not currently insured. Be sure your employees are aware of the
opportunity to avoid the penalty and get coverage--if they are eligible for a
subsidy, it may be best for them to obtain coverage on the Exchange. If there is
not a subsidy available at their income level, be sure they know how and when to
enroll on your employer plan. Coverage bought on the Exchange will not be tax
advantaged, so higher paid employees will probably want to maintain employer
based coverage. The State Bar has a program in place that is "self-funded" and
so escapes most of the new taxes of the ACA; as an employer plan it is tax free
to the firm and to the employee. Make sure you learn about your choices and
educate your employees. Two good online resources are enrollamerica.org and
montanabusinesshealthnetwork.org. Use the new law to the advantage of your firm
and help your clients understand it; it can improve the health of your
employees, and your bottom line.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsurancePreexisting ConditionsHealthcare
LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral Overview

                             498 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Jerusalem Post

                             June 12, 2007, Tuesday

New booklet promises to answer public's health fund queries

BYLINE: Judy Siegel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 451 words


In the next few days all Israeli residents will receive a 30-page Health
Ministry booklet by mail informing them of their rights to healthcare where to
get it and where to complain if they don't.

The booklet which updates the first less-detailed edition released five years
ago was formally presented on Monday to Knesset Speaker and acting president MK
Dalia Itzik in her Knesset office by Health Minister Ya'acov Ben- Yizri. She
said that the publication was "an excellent idea" and was written in a clear
understandable way.

Ben-Yizri said the booklet was created by the ministry and not by the four
health funds so that it would be regarded as objective information on how the
National Health Insurance Law which went into effect in 1995 is being carried
out in relation to every resident.

The booklet whose cover presents a rainbow slashing across white clouds in a
blue sky explains who is entitled to health insurance coverage from a public
health fund; how to switch to another insurer; how to find out what is included
in the basket of health services provided by the insurers; what supplementary
health insurance from the health funds may provide; where to complain if you are
dissatisfied; and what types of medical equipment are subsidized by the
ministry. In addition Israelis who spent long periods abroad are informed how to
continue their health insurance coverage.

Additional pages state who is exempt from paying for hospital emergency room
treatment and ambulance service and who is regarded as chronically ill (with a
maximum limit of out-of-pocket fees for medications). It ends with a detail list
of addresses phone numbers and e-mail addresses of relevant authorities and a
list of labor courts that accept lawsuits against health funds.

The booklet is being sent automatically and free to 1.35 million households with
most of them in Hebrew. In localities where the majority of the population is
Arab- speaking the booklet will be sent in Arabic. It is new even though
Ben-Yizri's opening message was dated March 2007

An invitation to order the booklet in English Arabic and Amharic (but not
Russian) from the ministry or from one's health fund is printed on the first
page in Hebrew only rather than in these languages. Asked about this the
ministry's deputy director-general in charge of information and the booklet's
production Ya'ir Amikam explained the lack of a Russian edition by the fact that
"90 percent of former Russian immigrants speaks Hebrew and few Russian- speaking
immigrants have arrived in recent years. If one or two Israelis receive the
booklet in a language they can't read or don't receive one the ministry
apologizes in advance."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: HEALTH MINISTER Ya'akov Ben-Yizri hands Knesset Speaker and
Acting President Dalia Itzik a copy of the pamphlet on health services Monday
that will soon be sent out to all Israelis. (Credit: Avi Hayoun)

                       Copyright 2007 The Jerusalem Post

                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    The Salem News (Beverly, Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday

Health care reform OK'd

BYLINE: Bethany Bray, The Salem News, Beverly, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


Nov. 10--SALEM -- In the span of 15 minutes, the City Council voted last night
to adopt a new municipal health care reform law expected to save the city at
least $600,000 next fiscal year.

The vote -- postponed from a meeting last month -- was taken with no discussion
and passed 8-0, with Councilors Arthur Sargent, John Ronan and Joseph O'Keefe
absent.

Designed to give municipalities more flexibility to modify health insurance
plans and rein in skyrocketing costs, the Health Insurance Reform Act was
approved by the state Legislature this summer and signed into law by Gov. Deval
Patrick on July 12. In August, Beverly was one of the first communities in the
state to adopt the new law.

A majority of the City Council seemed in favor of the idea at the Oct. 26
meeting, but councilors decided to postpone a vote after representatives from
police, fire and teachers unions asked for more time so union members could
educate themselves on the changes.

Mayor Kim Driscoll has long been a supporter of the new law and had hoped for
the council to take action last month. The board had previously adopted two
resolutions in support of municipal health insurance reform legislation.

"This was a critical first step to offer quality insurance at a lower cost,"
said Driscoll, reached after last night's meeting. "It's great that (the vote)
was unanimous. I'm pleased the council is taking this first step, this position
to work toward savings for next year."

The majority of last night's meeting was spent having individual councilors read
a legal statement citing their conflict of interest in voting to adopt the
municipal health care reform law.

Six councilors had to invoke the "rule of necessity," which allows those with a
conflict of interest to vote on matters to create a quorum. Steve Pinto, Jean
Pelletier and Michael Sosnowski use the city's health insurance; Thomas Furey,
Jerry Ryan and Robert McCarthy have spouses or siblings who use city insurance.

Under the new law, city leadership will put a health care proposal before a
public employee committee consisting of representatives from all eight city
unions and retirees. This is the first time that retired workers will have a
formal role.

That committee has 30 days to act. If agreement can't be reached with the city,
then the proposal goes to a three-person Health Insurance Review Panel made up
of representatives from the city, labor and an impartial third party.

In the past, the mayor had to negotiate changes in health care insurance with
all eight city unions. If one union objected, the change was rejected.

Staff writer Bethany Bray can be reached at bbray@salemnews.com and on Twitter
@SalemNewsBB.

___ (c)2011 The Salem News (Beverly, Mass.) Visit The Salem News (Beverly,
Mass.) at www.salemnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111110-ZS-Health-care-reform-OK-d-1110-20111110

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZS


                         Copyright 2011 The Salem News
