
                               1 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            December 31, 2007 Monday
                                  ALL EDITION

IT'S TIME TO DELIVER ON HEALTH CARE REFORM

BYLINE: Robert Kraig

SECTION: EDITORIAL; GUEST COLUMN; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 712 words


Health insurance costs in Wisconsin are among the highest in the nation at 23
percent above the national average. Now, a recently released Citizen Action of
Wisconsin study adds another wrinkle to the story: There are actually vast
differences in high health insurance costs within the state.

The new study, "Wisconsin Health Insurance Cost Rankings 2008," found that while
high health insurance costs reach across the state and are above the national
average, the highest cost areas of the state pay 26 percent more for health
insurance than the lowest cost areas. This amounts to a $3,800 annual difference
in the cost of a family policy and over a $1,500 difference of a single policy
for the same benefits package.

In addition, some relatively lower cost areas of the state had double digit cost
increases this year.

The highest cost areas were in the northwestern, southeastern and central
regions of the state. The fastest rates of health care inflation were in the Fox
Valley and Green Bay area.

This study lends further credence to the growing public perception that the
Wisconsin health care market is broken. There is no good explanation for having
to pay $3,800 more for the same health insurance policy in Eau Claire or
Milwaukee than one would have to pay in Madison.

The study also adds to the growing evidence that Wisconsin's very high health
insurance costs are putting tremendous strain on the system and that tens of
thousands of families risk losing their coverage unless our elected officials
fundamentally reform the system.

Since World War II, most people have accessed health insurance through their
jobs. Health insurance hyperinflation is placing severe stress on Wisconsin's
employer-based health insurance system. A report released this fall by the
University of Wisconsin's Center on Wisconsin Strategy found that only 58
percent of Wisconsin workers now get health insurance through their employer,
down from 73 percent in 1979.

According to a Kaiser Family Foundation/Health Research and Educational Trust
study, most of this decline has come from small firms with fewer than 50
employees, especially those with fewer than 10 employees. In fact, the
proportion of the smallest employers offering health insurance benefits has
dropped since 2002 from 58 percent to 45 percent.

There is mounting evidence that skyrocketing costs are beginning to endanger the
health and financial well-being of those who are still covered by health
insurance. A recent Families USA study found that over 1.2 million Wisconsinites
pay more than 10 percent of their pretax incomes on health care costs.

According to a statewide poll commissioned by One Wisconsin Now, 54 percent of
women under 50 said that they or a family member had delayed or skipped seeing a
doctor because of the cost of health care. These are astoundingly high numbers,
as 90 percent of these individuals had health insurance coverage. Delaying
preventive care and disease management leads to more serious illnesses that are
more expensive to treat, adding to the health care inflationary spiral.

In addition to the health consequences, high health insurance costs also put
Wisconsin at an economic disadvantage by making job creation more expensive than
in other areas of the country.

The Wisconsin Health Insurance Cost Rankings 2008 study suggests using large
mandatory buying pools to even the playing field. The idea is that the buying
power of the state could be used to counterbalance the dominant market position
of health care providers and hospital systems, and thus drive down costs.
Healthy Wisconsin, the health care reform plan that was passed by the Senate,
relies on such a model to reduce health care costs.

The state Senate took bold action on the health care crisis this summer when it
passed Healthy Wisconsin, but the Assembly blocked the measure. For the health
and economic welfare of the state, the Assembly must stop dodging this issue.
Real comprehensive health care reform is long overdue and needs to be the top
priority next year.

Robert Kraig is the program director for Citizen Action of Wisconsin, a
grass-roots organization with more than 90,000 members. He is the author of
"Wisconsin Health Insurance Cost Rankings 2008," which can be found at
www.citizenactionwi.org.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      July 27, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Pacific Prime Releases 2016 Cost of Health Insurance Report

LENGTH: 349  words


July 27 -- Pacific Prime has released the 2016 version of their annual free
report that looks at the cost of individual international health insurance plans
in 95 countries. Titled: Cost of Health Insurance Report - 2016 this report
improves upon 2015's report while also providing an updated ranking of the top
20 most expensive and bottom five least expensive countries for medical
insurance.

This year's report compiles expat health insurance data from three levels of
plans offered by ten insurers (who represent around 70% of international health
insurance plans sold worldwide). Each of the three levels of plans have been
priced for Singles, Couples, Families, and Retirees with the average price for
each demographic ranked in the report's appendix section.

Highlights from 2016's report include:

* The average cost of international private medical insurance in 2016 covers a
range of USD 7,608 to USD 17,335.

* The US is, unsurprisingly, the most expensive location for International
Health Insurance with an average cost of USD 17,335.

* Mali is this year's least expensive location with an average cost of USD
7,608.

* Dubai has seen the largest increase in ranking in the past year, coming in as
the 6th most expensive location, up 8 places from 2015's ranking.

* Asia has some of the most expensive premiums on average, but other countries
are closing the gap.

* The average price of insurance for four major demographics in 95 different
locations.

* There was a decrease in the percentage difference gap between the cost of
insurance in the USA and the other locations when compared to 2015's rates.

* There was an overall decrease in the average cost of international insurance
in the USA.

* The four major factors driving the cost of health insurance.

The Cost of Health Insurance Report - 2016 is now available to download for free
from Pacific Prime's Cost of Health Insurance website, with an online only,
interactive regional analysis coming in the coming weeks. Visit our website
today (http://www.pacificprime.com/cohi-2016/ ) to download the report.

Source: Pacific Prime Insurance Brokers

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             June 23, 2007 Saturday
                                  ALL EDITION

CUT COSTS FOR TEACHER HEALTH INSURANCE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 797 words


The Madison School District's failure to meaningfully rein in the high cost of
its Cadillac health insurance option for teachers should stand as a warning to
school boards, teachers, parents and taxpayers throughout Wisconsin.

When high-cost health insurance plans eat up more money in compensation
packages, less money is available for salary increases.

That makes it more difficult for school districts to compete for the best new
teachers, who tend to prefer higher salaries over extra health benefits.

In the mid-1990s Wisconsin ranked above the national average in teacher salaries
and benefits. But since then the state has fallen well below the national
average in salaries as school districts have shifted more money into benefits to
keep funding high-cost health insurance and other plans.

In recent years Wisconsin has ranked among the top five states in percentage of
teacher compensation spent on benefits.

The Madison experience highlights the problem. The two-year contract approved
last week by the School Board provides a 4.02 percent annual increase in salary
and benefits for teachers. But much of that increase is eaten up by the
continuation, with minor changes, of a high-cost, high-coverage health insurance
option used by less than half of teachers.

The high cost of health insurance limited the salary increase to 1 percent. (The
average teacher raise will be larger because many will receive step-ups in pay
levels based on experience and education.) The result could have been - and
should have been - different.

Madison teachers have two health insurance options. Roughly 53 percent of
teachers enroll in a lower-cost health maintenance organization plan provided by
Group Health Cooperative. The district picks up the entire cost of premiums for
the HMO plan, but teachers are responsible for some co-pays.

The plan would cost the district an estimated $11.6 million next year, if
enrollment remains the same.

The second health insurance option will cost the district more - an estimated
$19 million next year based on the past contract - even though it is used by
fewer teachers, about 47 percent. In addition, teachers pay a share of the
premium, bringing the total cost to more than $20 million.

The second option, provided by Wisconsin Physicians Service, allows teachers
more flexibility in choice of doctor.

In negotiations between the district and Madison Teachers Inc. this spring,
district negotiators proposed to cut back on the district's costs for the WPS
health insurance option in exchange for higher salary increases.

The district proposed to add two more HMO options for teachers. If a teacher
chose any of the three HMO options, the district would pay the full premium. But
if a teacher chose the high-cost WPS option, the district would pay only up to
the cost of the highest-priced HMO plan. The teacher would be responsible for
the remainder.

The change would have saved the district enough money to permit salaries to
increase 2.8 percent, rather than 1 percent.

Madison Teachers Inc., however, resisted. Although bargaining units for food
service workers, custodians and other district employees had accepted similar
changes to their health insurance plans, the teachers union preferred to
sacrifice higher pay to maintain the WPS health insurance option.

The School Board's mistake was to cave in to the union's position. While the
cost to taxpayers was the same whether money was devoted to health insurance or
salaries, it was in the district's long-term interest to control health
insurance costs and shift more money to salaries.

Fairness was also at stake. Teachers who enroll in the HMO health insurance
option cost the district less money. Yet, their salary increases are reduced so
the district can pay for the higher cost insurance plan used by other teachers.

School board members should start preparing now to stand firm for health
insurance changes when a new contract is negotiated in two years. Three board
members - Lawrie Kobza, Lucy Mathiak and Maya Cole - voted against the latest
contract because of its failure to change health insurance. The focus should be
on the remaining four members - Arlene Silveira, Johnny Winston Jr., Carol
Carstensen and Beth Moss.

Throughout the state, school districts should be forewarned: If Wisconsin is to
remain competitive in teacher salaries, it cannot afford to let health insurance
eat up the money available for teacher pay raises.

Teacher salary comparisons

Wisconsin teacher salaries lag behind as more money goes to fund health
insurance

State Beginning salary Average salary

Michigan $32,889 $58,482

Indiana $31,000 $47,255

Illinois $30,939 $57,819

Minnesota $29,907 $48,489

Wisconsin $29,883 $46,390

Iowa $28,157 $40,877

Source: National Education Association. Data are for 2005-06 school year.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: State Journal archives Mendota Elementary School teacher Kim Ireland
works with Shaun Daniels during a recent class.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                             June 25, 2015 Thursday

3 steps towards great health insurance in Thailand

LENGTH: 524  words


Thailand is famous for its good hospitals. However, this comes at a financial
cost that is borne by patients if they are not properly insured. As the medical
costs can surge to around 1 million baht, the medical bill for a heart attack
could even lead to another heart attack!

It is therefore important to get fitting health insurance in Thailand. Finding
fitting health insurance can be difficult, though. Not all health insurance
websites offer English translations of their content and not all employees at
insurance companies speak fluent English. It is very important to know how to go
about finding the best health insurance. This article will show you how.

Step 1. Understand insurance pricing

There are two primary cost sources in health insurance: your premium and your
out-of-pocket costs. Both costs will be explained in turn:

1. Premium, or monthly costs: This is the fixed cost of your health insurance.
The level of the premium depends on the health plan you select which in turn
determines your coverage.

2. Out-of-pocket costs: This is the amount of money you will need to pay when
you issue a health insurance claim. It is often referred to as the deductible.
The monthly out-of-pocket costs vary based upon the amount of claims you have
issued that month. There are two types of out-of-pocket costs: co-payment and
co-insurance. Co-payment is a fixed amount of money you pay in case you receive
medical attention and co-insurance is a share of costs you cover when you
receive medical attention.

Step 2. Determine your personal medical needs

The amount of medical treatment a person needs can differ greatly per person.
This in turn has obvious influence on the costs a person makes in maintaining
health. There are two key differences in medical needs that should have great
influence on your choice of health insurance.

1. The magnitude of your insurance claims: Be sure not to under-insure. If your
coverage is lower than the medical bills then this can cost you a lot of money.
If you are at risk of high individual medical bills then do not cut back
radically on your premium.

2. The frequency of your insurance claims: If you frequently require medical
attention, then you should prefer a low deductible. This will result in a higher
premium but frequent payments of the deductible can be more costly than an
increase in your premium.

Step 3. Choose a fitting health insurance package

Now that you have determined your medical needs, it is time to find a health
insurance package that covers your expenses at a fair price. Besides coverage,
your requirements can differ in terms of cancellation period, level of service
and insurer's reputation. Therefore be sure not to solely base your choice on
the level of the health insurance premium. The cost of insurance mostly simply
reflects the amount of coverage the policy provides.

Online health insurance brokers are a great way to compare health insurance
packages in just a few seconds. Additionally they also have price promotions to
effectively reduce the price of the same amount of coverage. Check out
additional benefits of online brokers in health insurance in the table below:

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                  May 5, 2013

Corporates worried about health insurance costs

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 714 words


Rising health insurance costs are a major concern for corporates -- especially
multinationals -- and could jeopardise the competitiveness of the Irish economy.

A number of leading corporate advisers have warned that spiralling health
insurance costs are a huge issue for employers.

Gary Fearon, healthcare lead for Aon Hewitt, said that healthcare costs were "a
major concern for corporates, particularly multinational companies with Irish
operations".

Fearon said that Ireland's success as a location for foreign direct investment
meant that there was a "disproportionately high number of multinational jobs"
here.

"Health insurance for their employee population tends to be a very important
strategic element of global benefit strategy for these companies and, for
several of our clients of vital importance to the Irish economy, the cost of
Irish healthcare is their highest benefit spend outside of the United States."

Dermot Goode, general manager of the healthcare division of financial services
firm Cornmarket, said that employers were questioning the sustainability of the
provision of healthcare benefits, but said many were "constrained" by
contractual commitments.

"Corporates are not happy in general at the cost of medical inflation in this
country," he said.

According to Aongus Loughlin, head of healthcare and risk consulting at benefits
consultants Towers Watson, a lot of corporates were reviewing the cost of health
insurance "as it is rising quite substantially and becoming a real concern.

"The majority are working to try see if they can review the offering to try to
keep the costs down," he said.

**Cash sum**

Jody Walshe, business development manager at IFG Health, a newly-formed
corporate advisory service under the IFG umbrella, said that one of the key
issues for corporates was their inability to predict how much health insurance
costs would rise.

To combat this lack of certainty, Walshe said that companies were beginning to
offer employees a fixed cash sum towards health insurance, rather than promising
to pay for a specific plan.

Fearon said that double-digit price inflation had put the cost of health
insurance "under the microscope", particularly when compared with costs in other
countries which have different structures. "Corporate healthcare trusts and
self-insurance are options that multinationals are familiar with in other
jurisdictions," he said.

"While they are not possible in an Irish context due to the legislation
governing the market, we expect that political lobbying, with the aim of
changing the statutory environment, will be ramped up with the aim of
maintaining or improving Ireland's competitiveness. So the Minister for Jobs,
Enterprise and Innovation may be just as important a stakeholder as the Minister
for Health," Fearon said.

**Report**

A recent report from business lobby group Chambers Ireland said that a more
efficient and cost-effective system of health insurance could play a part in
lowering the cost of doing business in Ireland and attracting foreign direct
investment. According to Seán Murphy, deputy chief executive of Chambers
Ireland, members of the business community had raised concerns on the issue.

Murphy said that businesses were "watchful of every cost" in the current
environment, and the key issue in relation to health insurance was that costs
had risen by far more than the rate of inflation.

"There's also an ongoing drumbeat of further increases," he said. "It's a cause
for concern."

However, a spokeswoman for the Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation
said the department had no indication that health insurance costs were an issue
for multinational employers.

She said that one health insurance provider had made one approach to the
department on the issue of rising health insurance costs for employers.

"The issue was on the agenda for a meeting which the relevant company sought,
but the meeting did not take place and was not subsequently rescheduled," the
spokeswoman said. "Aside from this, no company, multinational or indigenous,
representative body or state agency has approached the department on this issue.

"The department has no evidence or indication that this is an issue affecting
multinational employers and, as such, no representations have been made on it,"
the spokeswoman said.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 10, 1990, Wednesday, Final Edition

High Price of Delivering Health Insurance;
Study Says Commercial Firms Had Administrative Costs of 33.5 Cents for $ 1 in
Benefits Paid

BYLINE: Spencer Rich, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 717 words


In the dispute over the future of medical insurance in the United States, one
fact is repeatedly observed: the administrative and marketing costs of the
current American health insurance system are higher than in some other
countries.

In the scheme of health care costs, quality of care and universal coverage are
more important considerations. But even so, administrative and marketing costs
will be crucial factors if the U.S. system is revamped.

A study released yesterday by Citizen Action, an advocacy group for national
health insurance, attempts to estimate how much it costs for private health
insurance firms to deliver a dollar's worth of benefits to an individual.

The study concluded that it cost commercial insurance firms 33.5 cents in
administrative and marketing costs to deliver $ 1 in insurance benefits in 1988.

"Not including profits, commercial insurance companies spent $ 14.9 billion to
provide $ 44.5 billion in health benefits," said Citizen Action.

This 33.5 cents cost for every dollar of benefits, Citizen Action said, was 14
times more than the 2.3 cents it cost Medicare, the government program for the
elderly, and 11 times more than Canada's 3 cents per dollar.

The study said that if these costs had been as low per dollar as in Canada or
this nation's Medicare system, about $ 13 billion a year could have been saved
-- enough to pay for health insurance policies for a third of the 31 million
Americans who lack any government or non-government insurance.

Citizen Action in its comparison measured "the least efficient" segment of the
private insurance industry by looking only at commercial insurance firms, which
in many cases sell to individuals rather than to large groups, and by leaving
out Blue Cross/Blue Shield policies, government programs and employers who
self-insure.

If these had been included, the overall average administrative cost ratio would
have been lower than for commercial policies alone.

Administrative and marketing costs for Blue Cross/Blue Shield and for
self-insured firms historically have been lower because they focus on large
groups and do not have to pay for salesmen to sell policies to individuals or
for advertising.

Michael Podhorzer, who directed the study for Citizen Action, said Blue
Cross/Blue Shield administrative and marketing rates "fall between commercial
policies and Medicare. Self-insurance by a firm is also more efficient."

He said these two types of insurance were left out because of a lack of certain
types of information needed for the study.

According to Citizen Action, of the $ 14.9 billion that commercial insurance
companies spent in administrative expenses, almost $ 7 billion went to
salesmen's commissions, another $ 4.5 billion to employee salaries and benefits,
almost $ 300 million to advertising, and more than $ 2 billion to general
overhead.

In addition, Citizen Action said, the cost of identifying the low-risk groups to
whom they want to sell and the enormous paperwork of servicing multiple policies
with different types of benefits (instead of a government policy with the same
benefits for all, for example) require large numbers of employees. All this
could be saved, Citizen Action contends, if the nation moved to a national
health insurance system.

The Health Insurance Association of America, representing private health
insurance firms, criticized the study as a "misleading . . . siren song for
national health insurance" because it did not average in the lower
administrative-marketing costs of Blue Cross and self-insured firms.

"When these plans are factored in, 1988 administrative costs in the private
sector drop to approximately 13 cents for each dollar in benefits paid," said
spokesman Don White.

In addition, he said part of private insurance firms' administrative costs go to
monitoring waste and averting unnecessary surgery and treatments by physicians,
thus saving billions yearly.

Podhorzer noted, however, that the 13-cent cost is still about five times as
high as Medicare administrative costs.

As for national health insurance, the Health Insurance Association said the
"inability of both the administration and Congress to agree on a budget for the
coming year" does not "inspire confidence" in the "efficiency of government-run
programs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1990 The Washington Post


                               7 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      August 2, 2017 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Pacific Prime Releases Report on the Cost of Health Insurance in 100 Countries

LENGTH: 446  words


Aug. 2 -- Global insurance broker Pacific Prime is excited to announce that they
have released their latest annual report, titled: Cost of International Health
Insurance Report - 2017. The findings generated from the report should be of
high relevance and interest to individuals and companies looking to learn how
much they can expect to pay for international health insurance in various
locations.

The new report presents a ranking of the average premiums in 100 countries,
which spans from USD 19,724 to USD 7,027. These findings are based on combined
data from 10 major insurers, who each offer three levels of health insurance
plan: inpatient only, inpatient + outpatient, and inpatient + outpatient +
maternity. The four demographics used to generate the premium data for this
report are: individuals, couples, families, and retirees.

As can be expected, the US again ranked as the most expensive location for
international health insurance, with Hong Kong coming in second place with an
average cost of USD 12,585; 63.8% of those in the US. Singapore, China, and
Canada also ranked within the top 5, with an average cost of USD 10,732, USD
10,695, and 10,263, respectively. Ethiopia, Angola, and Mali are tied as the
countries with the lowest average premium.

In analyzing the findings generated for this new report, Pacific Prime
identified the following key findings that they believe will have a significant
impact on the industry, businesses, and clients securing health insurance in
2017 and beyond:

* The average cost of international health insurance in the US increased by
nearly 14% in 2017.

* Singapore has replaced China as the third most expensive location for health
insurance.

* The number of Southeast Asian countries ranked within the top 20 have
increased in 2017.

* Dubai's ranking dropped slightly from 6th place in 2016 to 9th place in 2017.

* A number of countries have seen their average premiums decrease, while other
locations have seen average premiums increase.

* Several locations have the same average cost of health insurance.

As with previous iterations of the report, this year's report further discusses
the following four major factors driving the cost of international health
insurance:

* Increasing demand for quality private health care;

* An increase in the cost of health care in most of the countries included in
this report;

* An increasingly regulated insurance industry;

* Ongoing challenges related to fraud.

The Cost of International Health Insurance Report - 2017 is now available to
download for free from Pacific Prime's website. Click here to download the full
PDF version of the report, or view the online version here.

Source: Pacific Prime

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Philadelphia Inquirer

                     July 21, 2005 Thursday JERSEY EDITION

A health-insurance priority;
Changing the individual market would allow more people to buy coverage.

SECTION: COMMUNITY VOICES; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 778 words


By William J. Marino

Time and time again, we are reminded that the health-care system is broken when
otherwise healthy people are forced to choose between paying high
health-insurance premiums or doing without coverage.

One possible solution: Taking a serious look at reforming New Jersey's
individual health-insurance market.

First, it is important for everyone to have a basic understanding of what drives
rising health-insurance premiums as we look for workable solutions.
Health-insurance premiums are a reflection of the underlying costs of health
care, such as hospital costs, physician fees, prescription-drug costs, and the
cost of new medical technologies.

For every premium dollar Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey customers
pay, nearly 87 cents goes directly to paying our customers' medical claims -
which last year was more than $8 billion. The remaining 13 cents represents
administrative costs to service our more than 3.1 million members and maintain
our hospital and physician networks. The percentage of premium for
administrative costs has been declining, while the percentage going to pay
medical costs continues to escalate.

There are a number of factors causing health-care costs to rise.

Increased consumer demand and utilization of medical services, advances in
medical technology, increased use of prescription drugs, the practice of
defensive medicine, poor lifestyle choices, and the failure to follow medical
"best practices" all add costs to the system. Additionally, certain legislative
and regulatory measures, including coverage mandates and how certain markets are
required to operate, add substantial costs that increase the health-insurance
premiums consumers pay.

As underlying health-care costs continue to drive up health-insurance premiums,
more and more people are added to the ranks of the uninsured.

The New Jersey Business and Industry Association reported in April that many
small companies are dropping health-insurance coverage for their employees
because they cannot afford the average cost of $7,307 per employee. As prices
continue to rise and more small companies drop health-insurance coverage, many
more people will be forced to look for health insurance on their own in the
individual market.

Unfortunately, the individual health-insurance market in New Jersey is broken,
causing individual health-insurance policy premiums to be higher than they
should be. As a result, many younger individuals who are healthy and employed
remain uninsured.

New Jersey is one of a handful of states in which the individual market operates
under what is known as "pure community rating." That means everyone is
guaranteed a policy, and each person with a policy is charged the same premium,
regardless of their age, gender or health status.

This system causes what we are experiencing in the individual market today in
New Jersey: an underwriting death spiral. Medical costs for unhealthy
individuals drive up premiums to a point where younger, healthier people with
fewer medical expenses choose not to purchase expensive health-insurance
policies. The individual market is left with more older and unhealthy
individuals increasing the number of claims and costs.

For example in 2004, the number of Horizon BCBSNJ individual policyholders that
had medical claims of more than $100,000 increased by 44 percent, and those
claims each increased in cost by 74 percent. Such increasing costs drive up
premiums, which prices healthier individuals out of the market making the
situation even worse.

Currently, reform proposals are being considered by the Legislature, but those
reforms do not go far enough. We support reforms that provide for adjusted
community rating to allow insurers to set differing rates for individuals based
upon age and gender, with the highest rates being 31/2 times the lowest rates.

According to a March study by Rutgers Center for State Health Policy, reforms
allowing adjusted community rating at this ratio would reduce premiums for
people below 45 years of age by about 66 percent. The center projected that more
than 46,000 more individuals would purchase individual policies.

Horizon BCBSNJ, as the state's largest health insurer, is working on a number of
initiatives to reduce health-care costs and reduce the number of uninsured.
Reforming the individual health-insurance market to allow more younger,
healthier individuals to purchase health insurance is an important first step.
We are eager to work with legislators to develop workable reforms to do just
that.

William J. Marino is president and CEO of Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New
Jersey.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Sun

                           January 26, 2006 Thursday

Health Care's True Cost

BYLINE: Randy Daniels

SECTION: EDITORIAL & OPINION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 725 words


The vote last week by Transport Workers Union members to reject the contract
deal with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority was largely motivated, it
now is clear, by the contentious issue of health insurance, and how much union
members would have to contribute to its cost. As this plays out, the dispute has
devolved into charges of disinformation and internal union conflict. Time will
tell what impact this has on negotiations.

Curiously, though, what has been consistently absent from the discussion so far
has been a clear-headed recognition that in the case of dollars and cents, it
makes little difference how the cost of health insurance is divided between
employer and employee. Money that goes to pay for health insurance simply
becomes money that is no longer available to pay for salary increases or other
benefits. All forms of compensation come from the same source, which in the case
of the MTA is a combination of tax subsidies and the fares that transit riders
pay on a daily basis.

Why, then, should a dispute that lacks a meaningful economic rationale lead to
so much confusion and, as we go forward, possibly more conflict? The simple
answer, as Mallory Factor discussed on these pages last week, stems from the
accidental and odd way that we pay for health insurance in America.

In order to sidestep wage controls imposed during World War II, companies
offered health insurance in order to attract new work ers. Crucially, Congress
then institutionalized the practice, by allowing companies to deduct the cost of
health insurance from their taxes, creating an incentive to offer health
insurance as a benefit of employment. In this way, health insurance became very
different from other forms of insurance, such as auto or homeowners insurance,
which people buy directly and on their own.

Employees often fail to recognize the cost of health insurance, because unlike
those who work for themselves, they do not actually write the check to their
insurance company. The employer does. And that causes problems. The most
obvious, and the one that elected officials have rightly recognized as the
biggest public concern, is what happens when a person becomes unemployed. Not
only does that person suffer the loss of a paycheck, he or she must also contend
with the sticker shock that comes with buying health insurance out-of-pocket. In
a state like New York, where health insurance is very expensive, that can be
economically devastating.

There is also a subtler problem caused by employer-financed health insurance.
Because employees do not know the true value of their health insurance, they
have little incentive to demand less expensive alternatives, which would put
pressure on health care providers to control costs. Yes, companies can shop
around, but since they are paying in part with Uncle Sam's dollars, they too
have less incentive to demand full value for the money they spend.

A common sense, first step in reforming how we finance health care would be a
requirement - or even just an encouragement - that employers include the real
cost of health insurance on employee pay stubs, not just the amount the employee
has to contribute. Instead of the relatively small figure that is usually
printed there, employees would then see the full cost, which in New York State,
based on 2003 data, would average $363 per family for each two-week pay period.
This would have several positive consequences.

In the case of the MTA, it would help demonstrate that there is nothing
particularly ill willed or even significant about asking employees to contribute
to the cost of health insurance. Money is money and can be accounted for in
different ways. More importantly, it would begin the process of weaning
employees from the notion that, somehow, health insurance is an economic
freebie. Obviously, that is not the case.

Acknowledging the real cost of health insurance would give consumers a better
understanding of how their hard earned dollars are being spent. This would make
for a more informed and empowered consumer, a key factor in establishing market
efficiency, while also ensuring that patients would be in a strong position to
demand treatment that is compassionate and technologically advanced. That, I am
confident, would improve health care for all New Yorkers.

Mr. Daniels is the former Secretary of State in New York.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The New York Sun, Two SL, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday

Small businesses hurt by health care costs

BYLINE: By PAUL MILLMAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 763 words


Saturday April 10, 2010

With amazement, and amusement, I read, in the March 31 edition of the Reformer,
the Associated Press story entitled "Gregg: Health law disastrous for U.S."

In that story, Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H., railed about the recently-passed health
care reform law and how it will lead the country into financial ruin.

Sen. Gregg's expressed some concern about how the new law will affect small
businesses, but I could tell the senator a few things about how the health
insurance system currently practiced in the United States is breaking that back
of my small business and, I'm reasonably sure, small businesses generally.

We know health insurance is killing big business. According to columnist George
Will, not your most liberal fellow, there is $1,525 worth of health insurance in
the cost of each General Motors car. I don't know how much health insurance is
in the cost of each optical filter that Chroma Technology Corp. manufactures,
but I do know the cost of health insurance per employee and the percent it adds
to our payroll.

In fiscal year 2002, Chroma had about 46 employees. In fiscal year 2010, there
are 96. In 2002, those 46 employees consumed around $245,000 worth of health
care. In 2010, we project we will consume almost $1.6 million. In other words,
we doubled our employee numbers since 2002, and multiplied our health insurance
costs by a multiple greater than seven.

Our per-employee health care cost in fiscal 2002 was a little less than $5,000,
while in fiscal year 2010, we project that cost to grow to a slightly less than
$16,000 per employee.

This is the per-employee number, not cost per user. Some employees are single
and some have families. It's safe to say that while the number of users has
grown with the number of employees, the ratio hasn't changed dramatically during
that period. We had individuals and families then; we have individuals and
families now. The cost per employee has multiplied more than three times from
2002 to 2010.

Then there is the amount over payroll we spend for this health insurance
benefit. It is expressed as a percent of payroll. For instance, if our payroll
is $1,000 and we pay $250 for health insurance, then health insurance adds a 25
percent burden to payroll.

In 2002, the added burden equaled an additional 15 percent of the cost of
payroll. It hovered around that figure until 2007 when it went up to around 24
percent; now it's about 26 percent. We calculated these costs for medical
insurance only; though we have dental insurance, we didn't include it because
not all companies offer dental coverage. We wanted to show the cost to small
business for medical insurance only.

I used charts with these figures when I testified in Montpelier recently before
a joint House-Senate committee meeting on health care. Other companies said
their per-employee health insurance costs were lower than ours. Some of those
companies offered plans with less coverage. Others made the employees pay for a
portion of the costs. In neither of these cases did the business owners whom I
heard testify say that their burden was less than 10 percent added to the cost
of payroll. Since Chroma's payroll is generally higher than most companies, the
percentage would likely be even higher than ours should they offer similar
plans.

Sen. Gregg, you don't see this as a tax, so you don't think this is terrible. It
is the cost of doing business and so are taxes. To me the difference is
semantic. Frankly, I'd rather be taxed. Then the burden would fall on all
companies equally. The companies that do not offer health benefits pay less in
costs, but we all pay for the tax costs of health care.

Sen. Gregg, the cost of health insurance is stifling our ability to grow. I'm
not thrilled with the bill just passed and signed into law. It leaves the
primary burden for providing health insurance on the backs of business. I'm
thrilled that a first step was taken and that the cost of health care will be
distributed more widely. Separating health insurance from employment is a good
next step. And publicly financing health care through a tax like the Medicare
tax is an even better step. Then business could do what business does best:
Create goods and services and employee lots of people. I'm sure, Sen. Gregg,
that you would agree with me on that.

Paul Millman is president of employee-owned Chroma Technology Corp. in
Rockingham. He is board president of the Vermont Employee Ownership Center and
serves on the board of the Vermont Businesses for Social Responsibility. He is
also a member of the Vermont Business Roundtable.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                              April 1, 2013 Monday

Mandates push city health costs // Projected $4.8M increase for FY 2014

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 451 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


WORCESTER - New federal and state mandates are helping to fuel a 9 percent
increase in the city's health insurance costs for its employees and retirees.

With the city in the process of setting premium rates for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, municipal health insurance costs are projected to increase by
$4.8 million - $1.8 million for the city side of government and $3 million for
the public schools - with mandates responsible for most of the increase.

City Manager Michael V. O'Brien said the increased costs will need to be borne
by city taxpayers. As a result, funding will have to be diverted from other
municipal services to pay for the higher health insurance costs.

In addition, the manager said, another $1.6 million will have to be borne by
employees and retirees, who pay 25 percent of their health insurance premium
costs while the city pays 75 percent.

"This increase is primarily due to new federal and state medical coverage
mandates," Mr. O'Brien wrote in a report that goes before the City Council
Tuesday night.

Acting Assistant City Manager Kathleen G. Johnson said the new mandates include
new coverage requirements for many different medical categories as well as
coverage for dependents to age 26.

Previously, the city only covered dependents to age 19 or to age 25 for
full-time students.

When the city had an audit done in 2009 of those covered under its health
insurance plans, it found a number of dependents over age 19 who no longer
should have been covered by the city.

With the removal of those people from the health insurance rolls, the city was
able to save $800,000.

But Ms. Johnson said the new federal mandate to cover dependents to age 26 not
only eliminates the savings that had been achieved, but it doubles the number of
dependents ages of 19 to 26 now covered under a city health insurance plan.

She said that requirement alone has increased the city's health insurance costs
by $2.4 million annually. In all, federal and state mandates equate to $3.5
million a year in additional health plan costs, she said.

Another contributing factor to the increased costs is that municipal health plan
members have generated medical claims that are running higher than industry
averages during the past 18 months.

Ms. Johnson said city medical claims costs are trending at about 105 percent of
the premium funding.

In addition, she said, the city has a number of "high-cost claimants" who are
estimated to generate similar or larger claims in the coming year, as determined
by known trends, such as chronic conditions and pending transplants.

"We must include these trends in our fiscal year 2014 premium projections," Ms.
Johnson said.

Contact Nick Kotsopoulos at nkotsopoulos@telegram.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORCESTER - New federal and state mandates are helping to fuel a 9
percent increase in the city's health insurance costs for its employees and
retirees. With the city in the process of setting premium rates for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, municipal health insurance costs are projected to
increase by $4.8 million - $1.8 million for the city side of government and $3
million for the public schools - with mandates responsible for most of the
increase.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Roll Call

                           September 21, 2009 Monday

Uninsured Are a Cost Burden on Everyone

BYLINE: Rep. Bart Stupak

LENGTH: 1054 words


When we discuss paying for health care, the facts speak for themselves. Every
American is already paying a steep price as a result of America's broken health
care system.

Regardless of whether you are insured, you are paying for government-sponsored
health care enjoyed by 44 percent of all Americans. Even those individuals with
health insurance are only an accident or illness away from financial disaster.
The American Medical

Association recently released a report that found 62 percent of all bankruptcies
in 2007 were linked to medical expenses. An incredible 78 percent of those
people had health insurance.

Individuals with health insurance argue they do not wish to pay more to provide
coverage for all Americans. The irony is that the average family, including
Members of Congress, are already paying $922 more each year in health insurance
premiums to cover the cost of treating the uninsured. Clearly, those with health
insurance are paying a steep price under the current system. Without real
reform, these runaway costs will continue to grow, meaning even fewer people
will be able to afford coverage, further increasing the costs for every
American.

In Michigan, annual family health insurance premiums rose 78.2 percent between
2000 and 2007. Over the same period, wages for Michigan's workers increased only
4.6 percent. The average family health insurance policy now costs $12,151 per
year. In my district, the median household income is $38,771 which means 31
percent of a family's income goes to paying for a health insurance policy with
high deductibles and high co-pays.

To further compound this discrepancy between wages and health insurance
premiums, the nonprofit health insurance company Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Michigan recently announced it will begin assessing health risk on an individual
basis rather than spreading the risk over a larger pool for small businesses
with 50 or more employees. The goal of pooling together in a group is to reduce
insurance costs by spreading out the risk, and therefore lowering the cost of
health coverage for everyone in the group. This new policy completely negates
the benefit of group insurance, and there is no clear reason for this shift
other than to save the BCBS money. This is in addition to the company's recent
announcement that health insurance premiums would increase 22 percent to 40
percent starting Oct. 1. These skyrocketing insurance costs are unsustainable
for families, employers and the government alike.

Even if you think you can afford health insurance premiums, the insurance
industry has one more surprise for you. Earlier this month, President Barack
Obama cited two examples from my Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight
and Investigations hearings highlighting how "more and more Americans pay their
premiums, only to discover that their insurance company has dropped their
coverage when they get sick or won't pay the full cost of care. It happens every
day." The president cited the Illinois man who lost his coverage in the middle
of chemotherapy treatment and a Texas woman who was scheduled for a double
mastectomy when her insurance company canceled her policy.

This post-marketing rescission of health insurance policies has saved insurance
companies hundreds of millions of dollars and left the sick uninsurable. Once
your health insurance policy is canceled, even wrongly canceled, no company will
insure you! So when I asked the health insurance CEOs, "Would you commit today
that your company will never rescind another policy unless there was
intentional, fraudulent misrepresentation in the application?" each CEO
answered, "No."

Of those Americans fortunate enough to have insurance, approximately 60 percent
receive it through their employer. But businesses are paying a high cost under
the current system. Right now, health insurance costs are the fastest-growing
expense for employers across the country. Health care costs add $1,525 to the
price tag of every car General Motors produces - more than the cost of steel for
that same car. Some estimates put the cost of providing employees with health
insurance at nearly $850 billion by 2019. Those businesses that do not offer
health benefits pay a price as well. The lost productivity of uninsured
Americans costs our economy up to $130 billion a year - 30 percent more than the
total estimated cost to provide these individuals with health coverage in the
first place.

Hospitals are also feeling the pressure from the unsustainable rising costs of
health care. My district includes 31 hospitals, and all of them have seen a
dramatic increase in uncompensated care over the past two years. One hospital in
the Upper Peninsula provided $6.5 million in uncompensated care in 2008, up from
$1.5 million only four years ago. Another provided $13.6 million in
uncompensated care last year, up 10 percent from the previous year. For rural
America, hospitals are our lifeline to quality care and are among our largest
employers. But many hospitals are being financially strangled under the weight
of rising health care costs with fewer Americans being able to afford to pay for
critical services.

Rising health care costs are taking a toll on all Americans by putting an
unyielding pressure on state and federally funded programs such as Medicare,
Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Medicare and
Medicaid - two successful government health care programs - will account for 50
percent of all national health spending in just three years. This is spending
that every taxpayer pays for. Between Medicare, Medicaid, SCHIP, the Federal
Employees Health Benefits Program, and health care programs for veterans and
Native Americans, the government provides health care coverage to approximately
44 percent of all Americans. While these programs are important, they are far
from free, and all Americans pay for these services through higher taxes.

Every single American, business, physician, hospital and health care provider
are affected by the current state of health care in our nation. No one is immune
to this growing problem. As such, everyone needs to take responsibility and do
their part to ensure that health care reform passes this year.

Rep. Bart Stupak (D-Mich.) is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee
on Oversight and Investigations.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 Roll Call, Inc.


                              13 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

Randolph;
Estimate hinges on health insurance costs;
$500K benefit cost for new hires

BYLINE: FRED HANSON, The Patriot Ledger.

Fred Hanson may be reached at fhanson@ledger.com

SECTION: News; pg. ONE10

LENGTH: 402 words


Benefits for town employees to be hired with the proceeds of recently approved
Proposition 2½ overrides will cost $500,000 a year, Randolph Town Accountant
Stephen Toomey estimates.

Toomey told the finance committee Tuesday night the estimate includes the town's
share of employee health insurance, Medicare taxes and group life insurance. It
doesn't include worker's compensation coverage or retirement costs.

The costs were not included in the $6.1 million in overrides that voters
approved in the April 1 town election.

Some town officials believe the town can handle the added cost without cutting
into the programs and services promised the voters in exchange for the tax
increase. They point to an estimated $500,000 surplus in the health insurance
appropriation for the current budget year.

Toomey was not willing to go that far.

"We have always overfunded health insurance because it's a very big number and a
very volatile number," Toomey told the committee. "A 1 percent difference is
$50,000."

The current town budget contains $4.89 million for employee health insurance, or
about 7 percent of a total operating budget of $68.36 million.

The schools would add the equivalent of 57 full-time jobs, most of them teachers
or counselors. Toomey based his estimate on the fact that 40 percent of school
employees decline the town's health insurance plan.

The override included money to cover the salaries of six police officers and
four firefighters. Almost 90 percent of municipal employees get their health
insurance coverage through the town, he said.

Toomey also said a lot depends on how much employee health insurance costs
increase in the new budget year, which begins July 1. The finance committee has
included a 6 percent increase in health insurance costs in its estimates for
next year's budget.

"We still don't know what that number will be," Toomey said of the health
insurance increase.

Finance committee Chairman Arthur Goldstein, who raised the question of the
benefit costs for the new employees, feels the increase in health insurance
costs will be the key issue.

"If we have a moderate increase, we'll be fine," Goldstein said. "But if we have
a larger increase, we're in trouble."

Finance committee member Andrew Azer, who projected the $500,000 surplus in the
health insurance appropriation, said the town may also have smaller amounts of
money available in unemployment insurance and Medicare accounts.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Patriot Ledger


                              14 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

DANE COUNTY HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS ARE LOWEST IN WISCONSIN

BYLINE: By Anita Weier The Capital Times

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 522 words


We're lucky in Dane County.

A new study by the Institute for One Wisconsin found that Dane County had the
lowest regional health insurance cost in the state, as did the Madison
metropolitan area compared to other metro areas.

The analysis by the nonprofit research and education organization, which
supports a progressive agenda, found that there was a nearly 30 percent cost
variation between the highest and lowest cost areas.

Northwestern Wisconsin had the highest costs by region, followed by west-central
and then southeastern Wisconsin. The Racine metro area had the highest cost,
followed by the Chippewa Valley and then La Crosse.

Milwaukee, which has been the focus of previous reports for high health care
costs, ranked fourth.

"There is increasing evidence that the employer-based health care system is
under severe stress in Wisconsin," the report also found. The percentage of
Wisconsin workers who had health insurance through their employers plunged from
73 percent in 1979 to 56 percent in 2004.

John Kraus, executive director of the institute, said the report also shows that
the consolidation of health systems is a major factor driving up health
insurance costs, and -- conversely -- that large buying pools can bring costs
down.

The data did not support the contention that cost shifting of non-reimbursed
costs from Medicaid and Medicare patients to private insurance rates is a major
factor in high health care costs.

If cost shifting were a big factor, the highest health insurance costs would be
in metro areas and regions of the state with much higher Medicaid use, poverty
rates and numbers of uninsured people. But some of the highest cost areas, such
as La Crosse and Eau Claire, did not fit that pattern.

The study compared the relative health insurance costs across regions and
metropolitan areas of Wisconsin by analyzing the 2007 rates paid by the state of
Wisconsin's Group Health Insurance Program, which covered 194,000 people --
including state employees and retirees and their families -- in 2006. Twenty-one
participating private health insurance plans in the program cover almost every
county in the state.

Dane County qualified as a region because it has such a large number of state
employees covered through the insurance program. That fact lends credence to the
idea that bargaining power gets better rates, as does having a competitive
health care provider market, such as is found in Madison.

The study found that annual Group Health Insurance Program costs for individuals
totaled $5,607 in Madison, the lowest, compared with $7,213 in Racine. The state
average was $6,501.

Regionally, Dane County had that same low figure of $5,607, while northwestern
Wisconsin had the highest single plan cost at $7,189.

Cost by Metro Area

1. Racine

2. Chippewa Valley

3. La Crosse

4. Metro Milwaukee

5. Kenosha

6. Wausau

7. Stevens Point/Wisconsin Rapids

8. Sheboygan/Manitowoc

9. Green Bay

10. Fox Valley

11. Beloit/Janesville

12. Madison

Cost by Region

1. Northwestern WI

2. West Central WI

3. Southeastern WI

4. Central/North Central WI

5. Northeastern WI

6. Southeastern WI

7. South Central WI

8. Dane County

E-mail: aweier@madison.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             March 27, 1990 Tuesday

U.S. REPORT   Health insurance opposed

BYLINE: GAM

LENGTH: 165 words


An overwhelming majority of the United States' leading business
executives oppose national health insurance as a way to remedy soaring
U.S. health care costs, the Health Insurance Association of America says.

The group, which represents major health insurance companies, said 94
per cent of the Fortune 1000 executives it surveyed were opposed to
national health insurance.

"Corporate America believes a private sector-public sector approach is
the most practical, cost-effective method of providing access to health
care and solving our nation's soaring health care costs," said Carl
Schramm, the group's president.

"Given its sky-high cost, national health insurance would be a big,
expensive pill to swallow," Mr. Schramm said in a statement.

Over 60 per cent of the executives responding to the survey said the
private sector alone should take responsibility for controlling health
care costs, while more than 30 per cent said business should join
government in seeking a solution, the group said.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1990 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Edmond Sun (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 30, 2008 Saturday

Health insurance hope: State efforts offer solutions for individuals who lack
health insurance

BYLINE: Mark Schlachtenhaufen, The Edmond Sun, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 758 words


Aug. 30--EDMOND -- Until recently, at times Terry Fisher went without health
insurance because of the high cost.

Fisher, shop manager at Edmond's W & W Tire, said due to the high costs of
health insurance occasionally he would forgo seeing a doctor. The same was true
for his wife, Kristi.

Insurance Commissioner Kim Holland, head of the Oklahoma Insurance Department,
said nearly 700,000 Oklahomans do not have health insurance. Holland said in
recent years the number of uninsured Oklahomans has been rising, as have the
costs of both health care and health insurance.

Holland estimates the cost of health insurance is increased by as much as 25
percent to cover health-care services provided to individuals without coverage.
Holland said the cost-shift creates a vicious cycle of increasing premiums
causing more people to drop coverage.

The high cost of health insurance has varied social and economic consequences,
Holland said. And the health of many Oklahomans is poor.

"I think it is one of the most significant, dramatic social situations Oklahoma
has to deal with now and in the future," Holland said.

National surveys show that the primary reason people are uninsured is the high
cost of insurance coverage. Premiums for employer-based health insurance rose by
6.1 percent in 2007, according to the National Coalition on Health Care.
Premiums for small employers, on average, increased 5.5 percent and firms with
less than 24 workers experienced an increase of 6.8 percent.

According to the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and
Educational Trust, premiums for employer-sponsored health insurance have been
rising four times faster on average than workers' earnings since 2000.

For the most part, the federal government has left health care up to individual
states. In Oklahoma, HCR 1010, authored by Rep. Ron Peterson, R-Tulsa, and Sen.
Susan Paddack, D-Ada, empowered a Core Benefit Task Force to make
recommendations to the Legislature for the creation of a lower-cost, basic
health insurance plan.

Last summer, Holland announced the launch of a statewide series of community
meetings for the purpose of receiving input from Oklahomans about what services
should be covered under such a plan.

In the coming months, work on the state plan will continue. Meanwhile, an
existing state program offers hope for small businesses.

The Insure Oklahoma/O-EPIC employer-sponsored insurance program pays part of the
health plan premiums for eligible employees working for businesses with 50 or
fewer full-time employees.

Legislation passed in 2004 authorized the Oklahoma Health Care Authority to
develop a program assisting adults age 19-64 who do not exceed 185 percent of
the federal poverty level with either a portion of their private health plan
premiums or the purchase of a state-sponsored health plan operated under the
state Medicaid program.

Holland said a good resource for information about health insurance is the
Insurance Department's Web site, www.ok.gov/oid/. The site contains information
on options for the uninsured, private health insurance, insurance for high-risk
individuals and income-based health insurance programs.

Jana Kappel, office manager for W & W Tire, said worries about not having health
insurance prompted her to begin investigating health insurance plans for the
family owned and operated business.

Kappel said when she got quotes on the state plan from a local insurance agent,
she couldn't believe what she was hearing.

"It sounded too good to be true," Kappel said. "I checked it out. It was super
easy to do."

Terry Fisher said he got on the state plan in February 2007. Fisher said he pays
part of the premium and the company and the state also pay part of the costs.

"It's an ideal plan," Fisher said. "It makes the rising costs of health care
more affordable. It's been very beneficial to our household."

If Fisher, his wife or their four children need to visit their medical clinic,
they have a $25 co-payment.

Kappel said without the state plan she probably would not have insurance.
Recently losing a relative to cancer made it even more important, she said.

NEXT WEEK'S TOPIC: How to get a raise.

To see more of The Edmond Sun or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.edmondsun.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Edmond Sun, Okla. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080830-EO-Health-insurance-hope-0830

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EO


                                 Copyright 2008


                              17 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

People fear insurance could cost them money or result in loss of benefits;
Concerns relate to the resources earmarked to cover cost of reforms

BYLINE: Martin Wall

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 748 words


Many members of the public fear Government plans to introduce universal health
insurance could cost them money or lead to them losing existing benefits, a
confidential consultancy report has found.

The report, commissioned by the Government, says that while there is broad
public support for reforming the health service and introducing greater equity
of access, many people are critical either of universal health insurance in
principle or of the particular model which has been put forward.

The report also finds some people are concerned universal health insurance would
just represent another form of indirect taxation.

The Government last year began a public consultation process around its plans to
reform the Irish health service. It said it wanted to end the existing two-tier
public/private healthcare system and replace it with a new arrangement under
which everyone would have to be covered by health insurance provided by
competing insurers. Under universal health insurance, everyone would be a
private patient and would enjoy equal access to healthcare.

Nearly 140 individuals, groups and organisations made submissions on the
Government's plans.

The Department of Health subsequently commissioned consultancy firm Crowe
Horwath to carry out an analysis of the views submitted. Its report, which has
been seen by The Irish Times, says a number of respondents are concerned at the
potential costs of the proposed system and have cast doubt on whether the
benefits would outweigh the costs.

Substantial costs It says respondents are unhappy at the apparent lack of
additional resources earmarked to cover the anticipated substantial costs of the
proposed reforms in the light, particularly, of the EUR 180 million start-up
cost for Irish Water.

"Additionally, respondents were apprehensive about the ongoing costs of
operating the proposed new structures and delivery of health services."

It says some people linked these concerns to evidence of rising costs under
universal health insurance emerging from the Netherlands and other countries
where similar systems are in place.

The report says a key and repeated concern among some respondents who currently
have private health insurance is that they would end up paying potentially
similar sums under the new system but lose out on their current benefit of
having faster access to healthcare.

"There is concern among respondents that those paying for private health
insurance now will pay universal health insurance for what may constitute a
lesser service, in particular in terms of the perceived ability to access care
in a timely fashion, but also the choices perceived by respondents to be offered
by private health insurance in terms of choice of healthcare provider (both in
relation to institution and consultant) and in terms of choice of accommodation
(lower occupancy rooms)," the report says.

Concerns "Participants also had a number of questions and concerns surrounding
the potential cost of universal health insurance to individuals and households,
in terms of standard premiums, the level of financial subsidy for those on low
income, the thresholds for such subsidies, the possibility of supplementary
insurance requirements to access particular services, co-payments and
out-of-pocket expenses and the potential for universal health insurance to cost
individuals and households more as time goes by."

The report also says respondents are worried at the potential impact of
universal health insurance on those who currently have medical cards.

"A key concern mentioned by participants is the lack of detail in relation to
what extent the current medical card and other entitlements . . . will be
maintained for those on medical cards and/or whether and how much they will be
required to pay under the new system."

The report says some people are concerned the planned introduction of mandatory
universal health insurance would remove choice from the individual as to whether
they wanted to pay for such an arrangement.

The report says there is some limited support from private health insurers in
particular for implementing an insurance-based structure for achieving equity of
access.

"However, there is a clear demand for greater clarity and more detail on how
universal health insurance might be implemented - often, those who have
indicated general support for the concept of universal health insurance have
been reluctant to go further, citing a lack of clarity on how universal health
insurance would work in practice."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   New Orleans CityBusiness (New Orleans, LA)

                                 June 16, 2007

Commentary: Health care mandates bad for employers

BYLINE: Dan Juneau

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 637  words


It is inevitable. Every year, well-meaning people show up at the state Capitol
pushing legislation that would force all private health insurance plans to cover
certain physical or mental conditions.

Over the years, approximately 25 health care coverages have been mandated by our
Legislature.

In addition to the mandated procedures, the Legislature has also forced health
plans to pay providers whose services were not previously covered under many
health insurance policies. Other laws have expanded the list of "covered
individuals" whose medical services will be reimbursed.

When all of the mandated procedures, providers and "covered individuals" are
combined, Louisiana has a total of 43 government-mandated coverages which add
significantly to the cost of health insurance in Louisiana. According to data
from the Council for Affordable Health Insurance, only 10 states have more
government-imposed mandates than Louisiana. It is difficult to establish an
extremely accurate estimate of how much these government-imposed costs are
adding to the cost of a typical health insurance policy. However, taking the
mid-range of estimates published by the Council for Affordable Health Insurance,
government-mandated coverages in Louisiana could be adding as much as 50 percent
to the cost of health insurance policies in the Bayou State.

The burden of health care mandates is death by a thousand small cuts to
employers, and often to employees as well. No single mandate drives a majority
of health care insurance purchasers out of the marketplace. But collectively,
they lead to more employers dropping policies, significantly increasing
deductibles, requiring employees to pay more of the premiums, or, among
employers who do not offer health insurance coverage, becoming less likely to do
so.

Every year when health care mandate legislation is heard in committees,
individuals who are afflicted by conditions that are not mandated to be covered
by health insurance policies in Louisiana appear and often make very emotional
appeals to legislators. It is very difficult for members of the Legislature to
vote against mandates, because they hear from sincere, highly motivated
individuals who do have problems.

Unfortunately, there is another group of individuals the legislators do not hear
from when the question of mandates arises: the individuals who can see their
health insurance disappear or become unaffordable because of the escalating cost
of health insurance.

In a perfect world where cost is not a factor, it would be righteous and noble
to say that any condition that even remotely relates to a person's health or
well-being should be covered by health insurance. Unfortunately, we do not live
in that perfect world, and cost is a very serious factor in the health insurance
equation. Cost escalation because of mandates often results in families who
previously had insurance that provided coverage for preventative care and major
medical treatments to no longer have that protection. Those families do not
appear in legislative committees when the mandates are debated, because they are
not yet affected by the consequences of the mandates.

Some in government wonder why employers who provide health insurance for their
employees would oppose a system that would "solve" the problem of the uninsured
in America by forcing all employers to provide health insurance coverage. The
answer relates directly to the experience of legislatively imposed mandates.
Once all employers are forced to be the provider of health insurance coverage,

governments would gleefully mandate costlier coverages and pass the costs on to
businesses. That is the lesson employers have learned from health care mandates
and it isn't something they will soon forget.

Dan Juneau is president of the Louisiana Association of Business and Industry.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                           December 27, 2005 Tuesday
                               RT. 9 EAST EDITION

Health costs and fuel pinch Assabet budget

BYLINE: Elaine Thompson, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: MARLBORO


Skyrocketing health insurance and fuel costs are the driving forces behind a
proposed 3.81 percent increase in the fiscal 2007 budget for Assabet Valley
Regional Technical High School.

The district school committee has approved a tentative budget of $14.55 million,
which is more than $534,000 over the current budget. The committee is expected
to approve the budget at its meeting Jan. 10.

Superintendent Eugene Carlo said he has serious concerns about rising costs
related to fuel and health insurance for employees. Health insurance, he said,
has quadrupled during the past 10 years. In 1996, the cost of health insurance
was $400,000. Next year the costs will be more than $1.6 million.

"Health insurance has absolutely broken me," Mr. Carlo said in a telephone
interview. He said unlike other public school districts, regional districts have
to include health insurance for active and retired employees in their budgets.
Health insurance for other public school districts is in the municipal budgets,
he said.

Escalating fuel costs since Hurricane Katrina are affecting the costs of heating
the building, as well as transportation of students and raw materials used in
the 19 career shops. Electrical costs are expected to increase 27 percent in
January.

"Rising fuel prices have increased the price of student transportation
tremendously. That, along with the state's failure to support present
legislation that would cover transportation for regional schools in full,
presents a serious problem for us," Mr. Carlo said in a press release.

He said that prior to 1990, the state reimbursed 100 percent of the costs of
student transportation. Now, the state only pays 60 percent of the
transportation costs.

"The cities and towns have always done their fair job supporting public
education. Because of economics, the state has step away the last few years. But
now they really need to pony up," Mr. Carlo said.

The school district includes Berlin, Hudson, Marlboro, Maynard, Northboro,
Southboro and Westboro. Boylston, Clinton, Shrewsbury and West Boylston send
students to Assabet on a tuition-paying basis. The school also serves about
18,000 continuing education students.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday

EDITORIAL: How Alabama stacks up: The cost of health insurance

BYLINE: The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 475 words


Oct. 1--Be careful, watch your step, the information -- equal parts spin and
statistical truth -- about U.S. health care is enveloping us all.

Navigating it is a full-time job, a rough-and-tumble profession.

In Washington, town-hall uproars etched in everyone's memory, the fever pitch on
President Obama's quest for needed health-care reform is white hot. Weeks into
the nation's obsession with the Democrats' proposed reforms, facts continue to
be tossed willy-nilly into the air, mixed in equal parts with wild speculation
and outlandish claims.

On Wednesday, as if the topic needed more fuel, debate over the necessity of
adding stronger anti-abortion language to any proposed bill caused near chaos on
Capitol Hill. As usual, the day ended with no consensus.

Here in Alabama, the data deluge is just as prevalent as it is in Washington,
albeit on a different scale. Recently, Alabamians received news that many
already suspected: The annual cost of health insurance for Alabama workers and
their employers rose nearly 90 percent between 2000 and 2009.

Annual health insurance that cost $6,262 in 2000 now costs $11,819, according to
a study by Families USA, a non-partisan group that supports universal health
care. That's an increase of 88.7 percent; more important, it's well above the
increase of Alabamians' median per capita income during that same period (22
percent).

In other words, Alabama represents a textbook case for one element of the
health-care debate -- the exorbitant cost of insurance, particularly when
measured against wages of middle- and low-income residents.

Like drops of oil in a glass of water, here's where spin separates from fact.
While health-insurance costs have skyrocketed in Alabama during the last decade,
they still lag slightly behind U.S. figures. Nationwide, health-insurance costs
rose 93 percent from 2000 to 2009, while median incomes increased only 19
percent.

Thus, in an odd twist, insurance costs in Alabama may be grotesque, but they
don't provide an illustration for White House speeches. Of course, Obama did
that last month when he used Blue Cross' control of as much as three-quarters of
the state's health-insurance business as proof of the need for reform.

Still, the spin-free facts are clear. The cost of health insurance is but one
part of the reform movement, but it's a poignant, compelling, undeniable one.
The problems are just as easy to see in Alabama as they are in Washington.

To see more of The Anniston Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.annistonstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Anniston Star, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091001-AO-EDITORIAL-How-Alabama-stacks-up-The-cost-of-health-insurance
-1001

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                                 Copyright 2009


                              21 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Janesville Gazette (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          December 22, 2010 Wednesday

BRIEF: Janesville health insurance costs are low: Report

BYLINE: Gina Duwe, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 238 words


Dec. 22--JANESVILLE--Janesville and Beloit remain among the metro areas in
Wisconsin with the lowest health care premium costs, while the area's health
insurance inflation in the last year followed the state average of 7 percent,
according to a study released Tuesday.

Out of 12 metro areas, Janesville and Beloit ranked third lowest in single
monthly premium costs at $678.34, according to the Wisconsin Health Insurance
Cost Rankings 2011, authored by Robert Kraig of the Citizen Action of Wisconsin.

Walworth County's premium cost was slightly higher at $702.47.

The study ranks the state's major cities and regions on health insurance costs
based on employee plans and health plan quality.

The fifth annual report shows a continued wide variation between higher- and
lower-cost areas. That variation reaches 30 percent between the highest-cost
metro area, La Crosse, and the lowest-cost area, Madison, for a difference of
$2,114 for a single annual policy.

For a full story, read Wednesday's Janesville Gazette, read online in the
Gazette's E-Edition or check back at GazetteXtra.com.

To see more of The Janesville Gazette, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.gazetteextra.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101222-JG-BRF-Janesville-health-insurance-costs
-are-low-Report-1222-20101222

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JG


                     Copyright 2010 The Janesville Gazette


                              22 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                WMI Company News

                              May 3, 2016 Tuesday

UK health insurance costs among highest in Europe

LENGTH: 549 words


UK health insurance costs are anticipated to grow by 6.5% in 2016 - the largest
increase in five years - according to Willis Towers Watson's 2016 Global Medical
Trends report.


The analysis shows that high claim volumes mean that health insurance costs in
the UK are increasing year-on-year at one of the highest rates in Europe.


Within Europe, among very varied health systems, the UK experience surpasses
that of France and Spain, which are expected to have modest increases of 3.5%
and 1.2% respectively.


Italy (0.8%), Portugal (2.1%), Greece (4.7%) and Belgium (5%) are also
anticipated to experience lower health insurance inflation this year, as they
have in each of the past three years.

Russia tops price hikes

The report noted that the UK did not suffer the largest price hikes in Europe.
Nordic countries such as Norway (10%) and Sweden (8%) will experience higher
cost increases, and Russia tops the European table for the second year running
with 15% cost increases.


Globally, the average health insurance price increase for 2016 is estimated to
be 9.1%, up from 8% last year and 7.5% in 2014, so European cost increases are
relatively modest compared to other continents.


In the Middle East and Africa, health insurance inflation rose from 10.3% in
2014 to 12.6% in 2015, and is expected to continue to rise.


Jeremy Hill, director in Willis Towers Watson's Global Services and Solutions
business, said: "Health insurance remains a key employee benefit in the UK, but
the effect of aging workforces, costly and complex treatments, and technological
advancements is that health insurance inflation in the UK is higher than in most
of Europe."

At the same time, Hill said UK providers are attempting to curtail these annual
price increases.


He commented: "As both the provider market and insurers have consolidated,
insurers are using their size to leverage more favourable pricing agreements
with key hospital groups and service providers. In addition, some smaller
insurers are forming independent healthcare purchasing alliances to procure
competitively priced hospital treatment for their members."

UK health insurance price trends


The report shows that, during the last five years, the annual increase in the
price of UK health insurance has been between 5.1% and 6.4%, a period of
relative stability compared to the period from 2007 to 2011, when UK prices
spiked by between 8% and 9.6% each year.


But the cost increases have been increasing steadily in the last three years,
from 5.1% in 2013 to 6.4% last year and predicted to hit 6.5% this year.


According to the report, the main causes of high price increases in UK health
insurance are: an ageing workforce more likely to claim on their insurance;
continuing delays in NHS treatment driving individuals to seek a private-sector
solution; and the increasing availability and use of costly medical treatments.


Hill added: "The cost of health insurance continues to rise ahead of inflation
almost everywhere in the world. While the last five years have seen relative
stability in UK cost increases, the trend is starting to creep upwards and 2016
is predicted to surpass last year's increase - for the third year in a row.


In the last ten years, the cost of health insurance in the UK has almost doubled
putting enormous pressure on budgets."





LOAD-DATE: May 03, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 World Market Intelligence Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

MADISON HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS LOW

BYLINE: Barry Adams

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 406 words


Madison has the lowest state health insurance costs in Wisconsin, according to a
study of metropolitan and regional areas released Tuesday by Citizen Action of
Wisconsin.

The study, authored by Dr. Robert Kraig, showed that the average monthly premium
for family coverage was $1,245 and $499 for single coverage, 26 percent lower
than the metro areas of Eau Claire, Chippewa Falls, Menomonie, Superior, Hudson
and River Falls in the northwestern part of the state. Family coverage for those
areas was an average of $1,564 a month and $627 per month for single coverage.

"It is widely recognized that spiraling health insurance costs are endangering
access to affordable health care for a rising share of the population, and
increasingly discouraging the underinsured from seeking needed preventive care
or chronic-disease management," Kraig said in the study. While there has been an
increasing focus on relatively higher costs in Wisconsin, and especially in the
southeastern corner of the state, there has been little attention to health-care
cost differentials between the various regions of the state."

Of the 15 metropolitan areas ranked, Madison was the lowest, followed by
Janesville/Beloit, Platteville/Dodgeville, Fort Atkinson and Monroe. Beaver
Dam/Watertown was the eighth most expensive area.

When comparing the six state regions, south-central Wisconsin had the lowest
rates followed by the southwestern, northeast, central, southeast and northwest
regions.

The analysis compared the relative health insurance costs by analyzing the rates
paid by the state of Wisconsin's Group Health Insurance Program, which covers
almost 200,000 people, including state employees and state retirees, using 22
private health insurance plans in every county of the state.

According to the study, the second conducted by Kraig, the rate of premium
increases from 2007 to 2008 was 6 percent statewide.

The study suggests that the Group Health Insurance Program has the most
bargaining leverage in Dane County, with more than 81,000 members, because of
the greater buying power combined with a competitive bidding process for health
plans.

"We hope this report will help spur the discussion that will be needed to build
a broad public consensus on fundamental solutions to the health-care crisis,"
said Linda Honold, executive director of Citizen Action of Wisconsin.

On the Internet

Wisconsin Health Insurance Cost Rankings 2008: www.citizen actionwi.org

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Great Lakes Advocate

                           February 8, 2017 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

Easing the concern of health insurance

BYLINE: Laura Polson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 364 words


CHANGES are being considered that could save up to $800 million a year on health
insurance, according to Assistant Minister for Health and Federal Member for
Lyne Dr David Gillespie.

Dr Gillespie agreed the rising cost of health insurance is a source of concern
for many Australians.

He added the Federal government was looking at ways to cut health insurance
costs with 'a review into prosthesis'.

He explained a committee was looking into the price of prosthesis as there
appeared to be a 'arbitrage' between the market price and the government listed
price of artificial body parts.

"If everyone was paying market price rather than what the government say the
price is, health insurers estimate they could save $800 million a year - and
that's a lot."

Dr Gillespie confirmed the rising cost of health insurance concerned the
government and the 'value judgement issue was critical'.

"Health insurance costs are going up and there is a concern within the industry
and within government about increasing costs.

"The previous health minister [Sussan Ley] had initiated reviews and ways to
help. [Minister for Health] Greg Hunt is now looking at these reviews."

Dr Gillespie said Ms Ley was considering gold, silver and bronze systems to make
it easier for people to understand and compare what they get.

"There are a lot of junk policies.'' he said.

"These are health insurance policies that exclude most of what people need to
have covered and just pay for easy things, rather than the expensive things."

Dr Gillespie said the 'existential problem' with health insurance is the
community rating which is challenged by low numbers.

"Around 35 years ago everyone had health insurance and it was relatively cheap
because everyone had it. Now only 47 per cent of people have health insurance.

"Imagine how expensive your car insurance would be if only half the cars on the
road were insured and the ones that held insurance were the ones likely to
crash.

"That's sort of what's happening - if health insurance doesn't remain affordable
for the average family and the average worker, less people will hold it, so the
premium will have to go up more, which will make it less affordable."

Full story on-line.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday

City mulls `opt-out' plan for insurance

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


WORCESTER -With the city facing a 9 percent increase in its health insurance
costs for employees and retirees, the City Council has asked the city
administration to consider an "opt-out" program for employees to save money.

Under a proposal broached by Councilor-at-Large Michael J. Germain, municipal
workers covered by one of the city's health insurance carriers would receive a
payment from the city if they dropped their coverage and got their health
insurance from another provider, such as through their spouse.

Mr. Germain said such opt-out programs are fairly common in the private sector
and have helped lower health insurance costs.

He said the city had an opt-out program more than 10 years ago and he believes
it is time to offer employees such an incentive again.

"This is something that is done fairly often in the private sector and it always
seems to work," Mr. Germain said. "We would be looking for employees to opt out
of their health insurance plan by offering them an incentive.

"It's not something that we can do every year," he continued. "But it's been at
least 10 years since the city last offered an opt-out program and it has taken
on a lot of new employees since then who might be interested in participating in
such a program. This can help drive down the overall cost of our health
insurance, and it is something that should be on the table."

Councilor-at-Large Konstantina B. Lukes said such a program would have to
prohibit employees who opt out from switching back to a city health plan for a
certain period of time.

She said when the city last offered the opt-out program, there were people who
received payments for dropping their health plan, only to rejoin in a couple of
years.

"I'm not sure if we saved very much," she said.

The city last offered an opt-out program in 2002 with the agreement of the
municipal employee unions.

Under that program, employees covered under a Blue Cross Blue Shield family plan
received $3,487 from the city if they left that plan and got their health
insurance from another provider outside the city government.

The payment was equivalent to 40 percent of the city's costs, based on the
annual premiums at that time.

The city limited the number of employees who could participate in that program
to 10 percent of the subscribers in each of the three health plans that were
offered by the city back then.

But the program received a tepid response from employees, in large part because
the city's health insurance benefits then were far more generous than what was
being offered in the private sector.

Given the changes that have taken place during the past several years to the
city's health insurance plans, Mr. Germain said, the response could be greater
this time around.

Meanwhile, District 1 Councilor Tony Economou asked the city administration for
a report on the number of employees who would have to participate in an opt-out
program for it to save the city money.

With the city in the process of setting premiums for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, municipal health insurance costs are projected to increase by $4.8
million - $1.8 million for the city side of government and $3 million for the
public schools.

City Manager Michael V. O'Brien said $1.6 million of the increased costs will
have to be borne by employees and retirees, who pay 25 percent of their health
insurance premium costs while the city pays 75 percent.

Edward J. Pietrewicz, speaking on behalf of retired Worcester police officers
and firefighters, said retirees cannot absorb any more of an increase in their
health insurance costs.

He said some retirees have annual pensions as little as $7,436 and they simply
cannot keep up with increased costs for health insurance.

"The retirees are stressed out and can't afford any more," Mr. Pietrewicz said.

Contact Nick Kotsopoulos at nkotsopoulos@telegram.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORCESTER -With the city facing a 9 percent increase in its health
insurance costs for employees and retirees, the City Council has asked the city
administration to consider an "opt-out" program for employees to save money.
Under a proposal broached by Councilor-at-Large Michael J. Germain, municipal
workers covered by one of the city's health insurance carriers would receive a
payment from the city if they dropped their coverage and got their health
insurance from another provider, such as through their spouse.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           November 6, 2004 Saturday

Town to reduce insurance share

BYLINE: Carrie Saldo, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: CITY & TOWN

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: EGREMONT


The town is reducing its share of new employees' health insurance premiums by 15
percent to cut costs without sacrificing jobs or town services.

The Board of Selectmen is decreasing the town's share of employee health
insurance costs to 75 percent. That decision affects employees hired after Oct.
26 of this year.

In addition, future elected town officials may have to pay 100 percent of their
health insurance premium if they want coverage under the town's plan.

The Selectmen are considering that issue and could vote on it in the near
future, Selectwoman Mary Brazie said.

She said the board began looking at cost-saving measures at the request of the
town Finance Committee.

By law, elected officials who are paid $1 or more by the town are eligible for
town health insurance. Both the Selectmen and the Board of Assessors qualify for
town health insurance, said Brazie, who is also town office administrator.

She said that 15 town employees and one elected official opt into town health
insurance, and at least eight other town employees are eligible for town health
insurance but do not receive it.

Currently, the town pays 90 percent of the cost of health insurance for town
employees and 50 percent for elected officials and retirees.

Of the town's retirees, one spouse of a retired employee is on the plan, but
that person pays 100 percent of the premium, according to Brazie.

Insurance premiums cost $10,000 per family plan and $5,000 per individual plan,
she said. The town is spending $112,000 of its $2.9 million budget this year on
health insurance.

Potential cost savings

Increasing the co-payments and picking up a policy exclusively for couples are
also being considered by the board as potential cost savers.

However, Brazie said a hike in co-payments is unlikely, as town employees might
not be able to afford them.

A "couples-only" policy would be a great way for the town to save money, she
said. Currently, a town employee who carries his or her spouse on a health
insurance plan has to purchase a family plan even if the couple have no
children.

Brazie said that that costs the town a "considerable" amount of money.

The town will have a better idea of how much it could save when it receives the
new health insurance premiums in January, she added.

Last year, members of the Great Barrington Finance Committee sought to cut the
Selectmen's salaries to zero, which also would have saved the town the cost of
their health insurance premiums.

However, town meeting voters opted to continue paying the Selectmen.

The Selectmen voted to increase their health insurance contribution from 10 to
25 percent, the highest co-payment contribution among town employees. The board
also slashed its pay to $1,500, a reduction of 50 percent.

Four of the Selectmen receive town health insurance.

Carrie Saldo can be reached at csaldo@berkshireeagle.comor [413] 528-3660.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

   Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.


                              27 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            November 6, 2005 Sunday

The Economy | On the healthy cost of coverage

BYLINE: Andrew Cassel, Inquirer Columnist

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 647 words


A reader (who unfortunately didn't sign her e-mail) asks: "Why does everyone
refer to health-care costs as the problem and not health insurance costs?"

"As I see it, medical providers receive ever-decreasing reimbursements... while
administrative costs at health insurance companies spiral out of control."

"My husband and I purchase our health insurance through a professional society.
It costs us an unbelievable amount each year. I wonder how much goes to the
insurance broker who handles the account."

It's a valid question, and an inevitable one. As health care takes a bigger and
bigger bite out of family budgets, it's legitimate to ask how much of the bill
consists of administration, marketing, or other nonessential functions that
could be streamlined or pared back.

In other words, how efficient is the system? Can it be improved? And would that
ease the kind of pressure that produced the Philadelphia region's crippling
transit strike?

You can examine this issue on several levels. Health care obviously includes a
lot of administrative costs - records have to be kept, hospitals have to be
managed, and so on.

Add an insurance system, with multiple classes of coverage, third-party payers
and all the rest, and the complexity and costs just multiply.

Strip out profits

Some say all this would be substantially cheaper if profits weren't part of the
equation. Let public agencies perform the necessary services at cost, and the
system would become affordable, goes the argument.

Others counter that government agencies lack the incentive to control costs or
pursue efficiency. As with most goods and services, competition and a free
market offer the best route to value for consumers.

There's also a debate about the way health insurance is structured. Whether
private firms or the government act as the insurer, many believe real cost
control has to come from the consumer.

Make people pay for their routine care themselves, and they'll spend more
carefully, getting just the care they really need, some say.

Others say that's exactly backward: People who scrimp on routine medical care
are more likely to end up with major medical problems later on.

This is an argument that's likely to heat up soon because the latest proposal
for federal tax reform contains a potentially sweeping change to our traditional
system of employer-provided health insurance.

One piece of the tax-reform plan would let individuals deduct health-insurance
premiums from their own taxable income. Currently, only businesses can deduct
health-insurance costs, which is why it's almost always cheaper to get health
insurance through an employer, if you can.

Cap the deduction

At the same time, the tax-reform plan would cap the allowable deduction, raising
the chance that more employers will pare back their health coverage for workers.

Economists generally approve of the change; there's no reason, they say, that
government should subsidize one kind of employee benefit (health insurance) and
not others.

Still, it's unclear whether this reform - or any other change to the health
insurance system - would substantially lower the nation's overall medical bills.

Arnold Kling thinks not. The Maryland economist, who is writing a book on the
subject, answered my reader's original question this way:

"Looking at the nation's statistics, it is clear that health insurance overhead
accounts for a small proportion of health-care costs.

"Regardless of whether you love or hate insurance companies, the numbers are
just not there to solve the problems of health-care spending by going after the
insurance industry."

"There is a lot of finger-pointing among different classes of health-care
suppliers," Kling wrote. But most of it avoids the hard truth of the matter.

Thanks to technology, Americans have more - and more costly - health care
available to us than ever before.

If we want it, we're going to have to pay for it.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              April 14, 1994, THURSDAY, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR Edition

EDGAR AIMS HEALTH PLAN AT BUSINESSES; COMPANIES COULD POOL INSURANCE COSTS

BYLINE: Tim Novak Illinois State Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, ILL.


Businesses could band together to reduce their health insurance bills, while
workers would get "no frills" coverage if they lose their jobs, under a plan
proposed Wednesday by Gov. Jim Edgar.

Edgar's plan is less comprehensive than the national health-care reforms
proposed by President Bill Clinton and his wife Hillary Rodham Clinton, but the
governor said the state shouldn't wait for Congress to act.

"While the debate over health-care reform in Washington drags on, we can take
immediate steps here in Illinois to improve the availability and affordability
of health-care coverage for millions of people," Edgar said at a news conference
in the state Capitol.

Edgar stressed that his health-care plan, which he promised five weeks ago,
would not create a new bureaucracy to oversee health insurance nor cost
taxpayers any money.

Edgar's plan would create a voluntary system so businesses could join to buy
health insurance for their workers.

By forming a larger pool of employees, Edgar said companies might be able to
lower their health insurance costs.

State law currently bans businesses from joining to obtain health insurance for
their workers.

"The ability of employers of all sizes to form insurance pools opens up the
market to health care at more reasonable costs, particularly for small
businesses, their workers and dependents," the governor said.

Many small businesses throughout the country do not offer their employees health
insurance because they can't afford it. By forming pools with other companies,
Edgar said, small businesses might find they could afford to provide health
insurance.

Edgar's plan, unlike the Clinton proposal, would not force businesses to provide
health insurance to anyone.

Low-cost health insurance would be available to any worker who loses a job,
Edgar said. Under Edgar's plan, those workers could buy a "no-frills" policy
that would limit future employers from imposing new waiting periods for a
pre-existing ailment.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              29 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                The Jordan Times

                             March 3, 2015 Tuesday

Universal health coverage possible 'when cost, quality, populism issues
addressed'

LENGTH: 972  words


by Dana Al Emam | Mar 03, 2015 | 23:16

AMMAN -- The feasibility of implementing an inclusive health insurance system
for Jordanians remains under study, as it entails further costs and need for
cooperation among stakeholders, according to officials and experts.

Health Ministry Spokesperson Hatem Azrui estimated public, private, military and
UNRWA health insurances to cover up to 87 per cent of Jordanians, a "high"
percentage compared to the region.

Azrui added that the Cabinet committee, which was formed to study covering all
Jordanians under the health insurance umbrella in December, is still considering
several scenarios for comprehensive health insurance coverage.

"The issue under study is not easy as it entails deep examination of several
financial, technical and administrative aspects," he recently told The Jordan
Times over the phone, adding that comprehensive health insurance, if applied,
involves spending "large sums of money".

Cost of health services

According to the Health Ministry's insurance director, Khalid Abu Hudeib, the
cost of medical treatment of those covered and not covered by health insurance
in 2014 reached JD320 million.

In a statement sent to The Jordan Times upon its request, Abu Hudeib illustrated
that the cost of treating insured patients of all categories and grades of
medical insurance inside and outside the Kingdom was around JD112 million last
year.

Meanwhile, the cost of treating patients not covered with health insurance, who
received assistance from the Royal Court and the Prime Ministry over the same
period, reached JD208 million.

These patients were referred to public, military and university hospitals across
the Kingdom, as the Royal Court and the Prime Ministry are "committed" to
assisting all citizens "according to available possibilities".

Asked what it takes to put a comprehensive health insurance system that covers
all Jordanians in place, Abu Hudeib said implementing the move requires a
"political decision" and is expected to cost JD320 million to JD350 million
annually.

Inclusive insurance under study

The official underlined a Cabinet decision to look into a suggestion to set up
an inclusive "health insurance umbrella".

The University of Jordan was assigned the task of conducting a study on the
number of those not covered with health insurance, in addition to the cost of
coverage.

"Work is still under way and once recommendations are made the ministry's health
insurance department will examine them," he noted, adding that under the same
Cabinet decision, the Planning Ministry was assigned to study funding options in
case a decision was taken to go ahead with the project.

Commenting on the efficiency of a comprehensive health insurance system, former
finance minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said many countries that implement
inclusive health insurance programmes have started to limit insurance services,
due to their high cost.

He highlighted the need for cooperation among all private, public and military
stakeholders to take part in health insurance, calling for ending duplication of
insurance, which occurs in the case of military retirees who work in the private
sector and results in wasted medications.

Meanwhile, he noted that in the case of Jordan, the cost of universal health
coverage will not be "very high" as the percentage of Jordanians above 6 and
below 60 who are not covered with insurance is statistically low, let alone that
these potential beneficiaries are less prone to illnesses.

Abu Hammour warned that the private sector might shift insurance burdens to the
government if a comprehensive health insurance system is applied, a matter that
will increase insurance costs.

However, he highlighted the role of the Social Security Law in providing health
insurance to subscribers, calling on private and public institutions to develop
effective health coverage programmes.

Covering all Jordanians under a health insurance umbrella would be a "pioneering
and reformative step", as health and education expenses are "main contributors
to poverty", said Deputy Raed Hijazeen, head of the Lower House's Health and
Environment Committee.

"All different types of civil and military health insurances should be united
under a single insurance fund," he told The Jordan Times, adding that such a
move "will ensure more social justice and minimise favouritism".

Quality of medical services

According to Hashem Abu Hassan, president of the Jordan Medical Association,
"justice" in the field of healthcare can only be achieved through "elevating the
level of medical services to ensure quality for all beneficiaries from all walks
of life".

He noted that quality health services should not be a privilege exclusive to the
well off, noting that citizens from the middle and working class receive
treatment at public hospitals.

"We should not rush to announce huge slogans like universal health insurance
without making sure that excellent health services are available for everyone,"
he said, adding that the priority should be given to increase the Health
Ministry's budget and to provide the public health sector with qualified staff
and effective equipment.

"It is a big step that should be taken gradually by increasing the segments
included in health insurance, without affecting the quality or increasing the
cost of the services," he said, adding that those below 6 and above 60 are
exempted from medical treatment fees as well as patients of contagious diseases
and cancer.

Personal benefits

Meanwhile, some members of Parliament seek to increase their popularity and the
public's support by obtaining medical care assistance from the government to
their constituencies.

MP Hijazeen acknowledged that lawmakers seek popularity through securing medical
treatment to uninsured citizens, "but they will not oppose a decision that
serves everybody", he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 62


                        Copyright 2015 The Jordan Times.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday

Cities and towns need to curb health care costs

BYLINE: Editorial / Opinion Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 545 words


If you want to point to a major reason why municipal and school district budgets
continue to grow year after year, look no further than health insurance costs.

A story in Sunday's Sentinel & Enterprise revealed that taxpayers have paid
millions of dollars more per year for Fitchburg and Leominster employees' health
insurance during the last six years, according to the state Department of
Revenue.

The skyrocketing costs eat away at the cities' budgets and use up money that
could be spent on other things.

"The health care costs are absolutely strangling cities' and towns' ability to
provide services," said Gerard D. Perry, deputy commissioner of the Division of
Local Services at the state Department of Revenue.

Leominster alone has seen the cost of paying for its employees' health insurance
rise by $8 million between fiscal year 2001 and fiscal year 2006, according to
data published on the DOR's Web site.

That's a staggering increase in just five years.

Leominster taxpayers shell out between $415 and $1,454 per city employee for
employee individual health plans, or between $1,080 and $3,617 per employee for
employee family plans -- depending on which plan the employees choose --
according to documents provided by the comptroller's office.

If something isn't done, health insurance benefits for municipal employees will
continue to eat up a greater portion of city and school budgets each year.

At this point, there seems to be no easy way to eliminate these continual
increases, because the cost of new technologies and new medicine continues to
rise, even as our population continues to get older.

But Perry pointed to a bill co-sponsored by state Rep. Rachel Kaprielian,
D-Watertown, and state Sen. Richard Moore, D-Uxbridge, that would allow
municipalities to join the state's Group Insurance Commission, which he believes
will save cities and towns millions of dollars.

The GIC provides state employees with health insurance.

Cities and towns would have more buying power if they joined the GIC, and by
joining the GIC, health insurance wouldn't be part of union negotiations, Perry
said.

Having the extra buying power and taking health insurance out of the collective
bargaining process would dramatically cut down on costs, Perry said.

He pointed to the DOR's data as an example of how the state's health insurance
costs have risen much slower than the costs for cities and towns.

The state's health insurance costs rose from $605.5 million in fiscal year 2001,
to roughly $896 million in fiscal year 2006, according to the DOR.

That's an increase of 47.9 percent, which is still a dramatic increase, but far
less than the rate that health insurance costs have been rising for
municipalities.

"Leominster is a poster child for this. Leominster has gone up 119 percent (from
more than $6 million to more than $14 million between FY 2001 and FY 2006),"
Perry said.

Joining the GIC seems to be a way for cities and towns to dramatically reduce
the cost of health-insurance benefits.

We urge local officials to explore this option once the bill becomes law.

But ultimately, state and federal officials must solve the complicated problem
of paying for our health care, or insurance costs will continue to grow, no
matter how towns and cities pay for their health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            February 23, 2007 Friday

Phil Angelides: Expand coverage without expanding costs

BYLINE: By Phil Angelides

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 775 words


GOV. Arnold Schwarzenegger, the candidate who last year said he would never
raise a tax and who attacked me for proposing that the very biggest corporations
provide health insurance to their workers, didn't wait a week into his new term
to call for new taxes on doctors and hospitals and a health insurance mandate on
businesses with as few as 10 employees. With conservative groups already running
attack ads that apply the "duck test" to the taxes in his plan (if it walks like
a duck and quacks like a duck&), can it be long before we see Arnold
Schwarzenegger, in grainy black and white and slow motion, walking backwards
across our TV screens?

While the governor's post-election about-face is rich with irony, it's time for
California to move on. Our system of job-based health insurance is coming apart,
leaving more Californians uninsured or underinsured against sickness or injury.
We need a new system, one that provides universal coverage and meets three key
tests: reduces the health insurance drag on our economy; gives Californians
quality care while protecting them from financial risk; and contains health
costs.

First, any reform plan must relieve the health insurance squeeze on employers
and job creation. In a global economy where almost all of our competitors
finance health care through national health insurance, California firms find
themselves at an increasing disadvantage as health care costs rise at twice the
rate of inflation. Unable to pass along those costs to customers, businesses
have responded by cutting back on health insurance coverage for their employees
or cutting back on hiring.

Unfortunately, the Schwarzenegger plan is likely to accelerate both trends. It
imposes a health insurance mandate, not just on the biggest, most established
corporations, as I proposed last year, but also on small businesses with as few
as 10 employees - the start-ups and entrepreneurial companies that are the
engines of job growth. His plan requires them to offer health insurance or,
alternatively, pay 4 percent of payroll. For these small enterprises, his
employer mandate will operate as an added cost and as a disincentive for hiring.
For larger businesses, which currently pay around 8 percent of payroll for
health insurance, the Schwarzenegger plan, with its 4 percent requirement, will
be an open invitation to do what competitive pressures are already encouraging
them to do: dump more health insurance costs on California families and
taxpayers.

Second, a health reform plan must provide all Californians with affordable
health insurance and protect them against medical and financial risk. The
Schwarzenegger plan mandates that everyone without workplace or public health
insurance coverage purchase individual health insurance, and it provides
subsidies for those with low incomes. But it leaves middle-class families, those
earning $50,000 or more annually, without any assistance and with too little
protection. Since few middle-class families can afford the cost of an average
comprehensive family policy, around $12,000 a year, many will have to buy
catastrophic policies, which have lower monthly premiums but would leave the
family liable for $10,000 a year in costs if a member fell ill or was injured.
Even if a family could weather one such year, a chronic illness, with year after
year of large out-of-pocket costs, would be financially devastating.

Third, a reformed health system must control costs. The biggest driver of
unnecessary cost in our health system is the private health insurance industry.
Researchers at the University of California found last year that
insurance-related administrative costs consumed about $16billion a year in
California. Since 2000, insurers have doubled premiums to employers and
families, raising them at four times the rate of inflation and faster than the
costs of providing health care. As a result, the top seven health insurers are
making record profits, triple what they made five years ago. In addition,
insurance companies force doctors, clinics and hospitals to hire armies of
people to deal with insurance claims, eligibility, contracting and utilization
reviews.

But the Schwarzenegger plan essentially continues that status quo, allowing
insurers to divert 15 percent of health dollars to profit and overhead - just
about the current industry average. California cannot end the health insurance
squeeze on business and provide quality, affordable universal health care unless
the governor and the Legislature are willing to tackle this hidden tax on all

of us.

Phil Angelides, former California State Treasurer, was the Democratic nominee
for governor last year.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                           February 23, 1990, Friday

BURDEN OF NATIONAL HEALTH COVER SEEN FALLING ON THE HIGHER-PAID

BYLINE: Journal of Commerce Staff

SECTION: INSURANCE, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


National health insurance would shift the burden for health care costs to
workers with higher incomes and would raise health costs by 50 percent in the
manufacturing sector, a new study said.

The study, conducted by the National Center for Policy Analysis in Dallas,
Texas, concluded that a Canadian-style national health insurance program would
require $ 339 billion in additional taxes, increasing the federal budget by
lmost one-third.

Because that money would probably come from payroll taxes, the burden would fall
more heavily on higher-paid workers, said Gary Robbins, a former U.S. Department
of Treasury economist who co-authored the study. ''Manufacturing workers are
among the highest paid in the country," so they would end up paying more than
service workers do.

The study also said that large manufacturing companies would be hit hardest by
national health insurance taxes, with several industries paying more than $ 1
billion in taxes over and above the benefits they would receive. ''National
health insurance would hurt America's ability to compete in world markets," said
Mr. Robbins. "We would be taxing our export industries and raising the price of
their products relative to their foreign competitors. The United States would
also become one of the most heavily taxed countries among our international
trading partners."

John Goodman, president of National Center for Policy Analysis, said that the
study found the rise in costs for the manufacturing sector in spite of the
study's assumption that health costs for the nation as a whole would stay the
same. But, in fact, health care costs have always risen when countries like
Great Britain and Canada have instituted national health insurance, he
continued.

Consumer advocates, however, say that a national plan would reduce costs. "I
think that the only way to control the cost of health insurance is to administer
it on a federal level," said Steve Johnson, a field organizer on insurance
issues for Public Citizen's Congress Watch, a consumer advocacy group founded by
Ralph Nader.

With so many different insurance companies in the system we have now, there is
no central force to put pressure on health care providers to reduce costs, he
continued. Under a national plan, government would have the power to pressure
providers to reduce costs.

But any reduction in costs from government pressure would come at the price of a
deterioration in the quality of care, countered Mr. Goodman. "In Britain and
Canada they keep costs down by reducing the amount of money they give to
hospitals (and) hospitals are forced to ration care."

People who advocate national health insurance "don't believe in markets and
think that the only answer to the cost of health care is more bureaucracy," he
added.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              33 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 16, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition

Cut the Health Insurance Subsidy

Martin Feldstein, Kathleen Feldstein

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A27

LENGTH: 899 words


President-elect Clinton has billed health care reform as one of the top
priorities for his first 100 days. Let's hope that he's not attempting wholesale
revision of our system in that short time frame. But there are things he can do
right away to control costs while preserving individual choice in health care.

The United States spends more on health care as a percentage of income than any
other country, yet 15 percent of our population is uninsured and ineligible for
Medicare or Medicaid. That's wrong, and we applaud Clinton's goal of controlling
costs while extending health insurance.

While too many Americans have no insurance coverage, our tax system ironically
creates an incentive for more individuals to be over-insured. The current system
subsidizes health insurance provided by employers, by exempting health insurance
premiums from taxable income.

A good starting point for reform would be to limit the health insurance subsidy.
If health insurance premiums paid by employers were taxed like other income, the
Treasury would collect $ 43 billion of additional income tax revenue. Even in
these days of bloated budgets and high prices, that's a lot of money. It's more
than the government's total receipts from taxes on alcohol, tobacco and gasoline
and more than twice what the government spends on science and technology.

An additional $ 30 billion would also be collected in Social Security taxes if
current health insurance benefits were counted as taxable income. Even if only
some of these benefits were included in taxable income, it's clear that such a
change would enable President Clinton to extend eligibility for Medicaid
benefits to the poor, reducing the federal deficit.

But raising federal revenue is not the only reason for making such a change.
Rather, changing the tax treatment of health insurance benefits would lead to
better cost control and a fairer treatment of taxpayers.

The primary reason that health care is so expensive in this country is that, for
most people, insurance pays most of the medical and hospital bills. Most people
have no incentive to ask questions about the cost of care and no incentive to
compare costs of different treatments or treatment at different hospitals. For
the doctor's part, there is no pressure from the patient to think about costs
when ordering tests or recommending treatments.

There are exceptions, of course. Drugs and dental care, for example, are not
routinely included in insurance plans. And not all employer-provided health
insurance is fully comprehensive. But on the whole, there is little reason for
most people to be cost conscious once they have fulfilled annual deductible
payments.

Why has employer-paid health insurance developed as a standard business
practice? Think about someone who is taxed at the 28 percent federal income tax
bracket. If her employer pays her an extra $ 100 in cash salary, she will take
home less than $ 60 after deductions for federal income taxes, Social Security
taxes and state taxes. If instead, the employer spends the $ 100 on health
insurance for the employee, there are no taxes due. So in effect, she can buy $
100 of health insurance coverage for $ 60 in net wages. It's not surprising that
most people do substitute employer-paid health insurance premiums for a part of
their salaries.

It's easy to see from this example that the higher your income, the lower the
net cost of buying insurance. While someone in the 28 percent tax bracket can
buy $ 100 of health insurance premiums for $ 60 in net wages, the same insurance
would cost $ 73 for someone in the 15 percent tax bracket.

So higher income employees get a bigger tax break for every dollar of health
insurance premium. In addition, higher income employees tend to have more
expensive employer-provided health packages, so the tax break applies to a
larger total amount. These tax advantages clearly provide an incentive for
employees to seek fully comprehensive health benefits.

Those who gain the most from the current tax rules would fight hard to stop the
government from treating all health benefits as taxable income. The politically
practical way to cut back on this unfair subsidy would be to put a ceiling on
the level of health insurance premiums that can be excluded from taxable income.
That kind of a ceiling already applies to employer-provided life insurance. Any
excess over the specified ceiling would be counted as taxable income.

One possibility would be to establish the cost of a "standard insurance policy"
and use that cost as the limit for excluding health insurance premiums from
taxable income.

Although President-elect Clinton did not address this tax issue in his campaign,
our proposal is compatible with his promise to guarantee everyone a core health
benefits package provided either through employers or through a public program.
The cost of that package could define the limit of the exclusion from taxable
income.

This reform of the tax preference for health insurance would be easy to
administer. It would have benefits that go far beyond the several billion
dollars of additional federal tax revenue. More significant, this plan would
introduce cost consciousness into the choice of health insurance and medical
treatment.

Martin Feldstein was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 1982 to
1984. Kathleen Feldstein is an economist.

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, JOHN OVERMYER

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              34 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            January 28, 2001 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

The answers;
Health

BYLINE: INTERVIEWS by LISA MITCHELL

SECTION: SUNDAY LIFE; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1028 words


"Should I take up private health insurance? "

The adviser

Scott Brouwer is a certified financial planner with Flinders Partners financial
planning consultancy.

Like any insurance, you have a choice of whether to outsource the risk to an
insurance company or absorb the risk yourself, and health insurance is no
exception. For top family cover, you would expect to pay around $2000 per annum,
if not more. From 30 June last year, if you were not already in private health
insurance, you will pay a loading of 2 per cent for each year you are over 30;
therefore a 35-year-old would pay a 10 per cent loading. If you enter private
health insurance at age 30 and pay $2000 per year and, assuming the premium is
adjusted upward with inflation, by the time you are 70, you will have
contributed $147,783. For your money, you are covered for hospital and ancillary
medical costs, including elective surgery.

If you are not in private health insurance, you have to pay for elective
procedures or go on waiting lists. If at age 30 you invested the $2000 per year
and had no medical costs - assuming the $2000 is indexed at 3 per cent per annum
and the investment returns 8 per cent per annum - by age 70 you would have
accumulated over $750,000.

You need to consider carefully the likelihood of you or your family members
requiring medical treatment and if that treatment is covered adequately enough
by the public system and whether you would prefer to be able to choose your own
doctor. Under the public system, you generally do not have the luxury of choice;
you take what is available at the time.

While $750,000 sounds very attractive, the trap for most people is that they
would spend the money on other items and not invest the money to be reserved for
medical costs. There is no definitive answer to the private versus public health
insurance debate. The key is to be informed.

The insured

Gayle Rackstraw, 40, took up insurance last year before the 30 June premium
increase deadline.

Did I really have much of a choice? It was either continue the cover I had taken
up through my employer or be faced with the penalty of increased premiums if I
decided to drop out and rejoin later. Having ceased full-time employment to
study full-time, I would have preferred to be able to opt out temporarily but
felt trapped.

Years ago, I had stopped my long-standing health coverage because of the
continually rising costs and ever-increasing restrictions. I found it hard to
justify the benefits against the expense. There is no way I would have even
considered joining a fund without the 30 per cent rebate offered by the
government. As it is, my hospital and ancillary cover is only medium level and
costs nearly $90 per month as a single person. Ancillary rebates are reasonably
satisfactory, however, the range of services covered is not very extensive. My
experience with claims has also had its difficulties, in terms of poor
communication relating to the denial of claims.

I resent being pressured (or would blackmailed be a better word?) to have
private cover. In trying to be optimistic about the situation, I hope that the
sheer weight of the numbers of people who are now in the health insurance system
demand a better level of service and a better quality product from these
"suppliers" called health insurance providers.

The uninsured

Louise Petschler is a senior policy officer of financial services for the
Australian Consumers' Association and has no insurance cover.

I'm 30, have no kids, live in Sydney, and am a policy officer with the
Australian Consumers' Association - although these are my personal views. I
looked at the benefits and costs of private health insurance and it didn't add
up for me. Even with an excess and adding the benefit of the government's 30 per
cent rebate, private cover would cost me more per month than seemed worthwhile.
Private health insurance makes no real difference to emergency medical treatment
and ancillary cover costs far more than I spend on health care in a year.

For many consumers, health insurance will be a good option for a range of
reasons. On balance, though, private health insurance doesn't represent good
value for money for me. I am also confident in the public health system,
although I believe more funding is needed. Medicare is one of the great
strengths of our community.

For younger people, the benefits of health insurance can also be limited. During
the government's "run for cover" campaign, lots of people under 30 took out
health insurance but analysis published in Choice magazine showed that for many
young people, the return you get from private health insurance is really very
low. You might wait until your 60s until you start seeing a return in terms of
benefits received against premiums paid.

I was reluctant to commit to a product that I couldn't be sure would actually
cover my costs if I did opt for private treatment. Instead, I budget for things
like dental care and new glasses but not for hospital or specialist costs at the
moment.

I will be looking to set aside money - basically to "self-insure" - for any
unexpected costs (for example, specialist fees) that might come up over the next
few years. But in terms of what I'm likely to need and what health insurance can
deliver for me, paying $50 to $80 a month for something I probably won't use or
might not meet my costs doesn't add up.

When I'm older and more likely to use health insurance and if I can find a
policy that covers the treatment I might need, I will look at taking out private
health insurance.

I'm not worried about paying higher premiums

at that point. For now, though, private health insurance doesn't seem to
represent good value for money for me.

Factfile

*· To find out more about whether private health insurance is for you, the
Australian Consumers' Association website offers health insurance calculators to
help navigate through the policies at www.choice.com.au Search on "health
insurance" for a range of articles on the pros and cons of cover.

*· For background on the 30 per cent rebate and the lifetime health cover
initiative, go to the Federal Government's Department of Health and Aged Care
website (www.health.gov.au).

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: Healthy choice: does the private health system represent value
for money?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2001 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

STUDY: INSURANCE COSTS IN MADISON LOWER THAN REST OF STATE

BYLINE: Shawn Doherty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 471 words


A study released Tuesday finds that the costs for employers of providing health
insurance are lower in Madison than in any other part of the state, which the
study's authors believe is due to the more competitive bidding power Madison
companies and state employees have when shopping around for insurance coverage.
The report found up to a 26 percent difference between the rates different
cities and counties pay for health insurance in Wisconsin.

The average cost for a family health insurance policy in Madison is $4,146
cheaper than it is in the state's most expensive market, Eau Claire, according
to the 3rd Annual Wisconsin Health Insurance Cost Ranking report released by
Citizen Action of Wisconsin.

Northwestern Wisconsin has higher health insurance costs than anywhere else in
the state, while inflation has hit northeastern Wisconsin especially hard. "This
is shocking, stunning, amazing," said state Sen. Dave Hansen, alluding to the
262 percent jump over the past decade in health insurance costs for the Green
Bay area he represents. "Too many people are falling through the cracks."

A slew of studies identify Wisconsin as one of the most expensive states in the
country when it comes to shopping for health insurance. A 2005 GAO study found
that out of the 319 metropolitan areas surveyed, eight of the top 10 cities in
the country for physician costs and two out of the top 10 for hospital costs are
in Wisconsin.

Rates have increased 30 percent faster in the state, excluding Madison, than the
national average. The cost of employer-based premiums in the city has jumped 113
percent over the past decade, which is actually less than the national average
of 149 percent, according to a national survey released by the Kaiser
Foundation. Yet at the beginning of the decade, before prices shot up around the
rest of the state, Madison's costs were similar. The study suggests that a key
reason for the relative stability of the Madison market its huge pool of state
employees, which forces insurance companies to remain competitive in bidding for
their business.

Still, for Madison residents, as well as for others across the state, sluggish
wages have not kept up with skyrocketting insurance and medical costs. Consumers
in Madison are feeling the pinch, too. "Nobody would say health insurance is
cheap in Madison, it's just that the area is not as badly hit as the rest of the
state," said Robert Kraig of Citizen Action of Wisconsin.

Several state senators described the startling regional variances unveiled in
this report as an issue that needs to be tackled. "We need to get a handle on
why there is such regional variation before we understand what to do about it,"
said State Senator Kathleen Vinehout(Alma) during a conference call.

Agreed Senator Miller: "This report is a call to action."

10/28/2008 10:37 am

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  To view the Web version of the story, go to
http://www.madison.com/tct/news/stories/311621.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 9, 1990, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

MEDICAL COSTS AND NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 467 words


Wouldn't it be nice if health-care providers held after-Christmas sales? This
idea may be both unthinkable and unfeasible, but something must be done to
contain American health-care costs.  In 1965, health care consumed just under 6
percent of the gross national product. By 1987, it was consuming over 11 percent
- that comes to over $500 billion - and is still climbing.  The increases stem
from many factors. People are living longer and require more complex and
expensive care to stay alive. Malpractice judgments also have boosted the cost
of medical care. So has the endless competition among health-care providers to
offer patients the latest in high-tech treatment - regardless of the cost of the
technology and the savings that could be derived if equipment were shared.
Meanwhile, a federal panel has just come out in favor of universal health
insurance. This panel should also address health-care costs, one of the issues
that has given the Bush administration cold feet about universal health
insurance.  In particular, the president fears that any such plan would mean new
taxes and added costs to businesses. New taxes for this laudable concept may be
unavoidable, and some businesses that now provide no health insurance for their
workers shouldn't be permitted to escape the cost of doing so. These businesses
must regard health insurance as a right of every working American, just as
unemployment insurance is a right.  Even though the cost of health care must be
addressed, the solution shouldn't involve limiting access to care for the
elderly and the working poor. Among other things, the solution should include
controlling expenses stemming from malpractice suits and from the needless
purchase of high-tech equipment. Universal health insurance is an idea whose
time has come, but it must come into being with the lowest price tag possible.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              37 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Hays Daily News (Kansas)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 4, 2016 Friday

City discusses rising health insurance costs

BYLINE: Kaley Conner, The Hays Daily News, Kan.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 511 words


Nov. 04--The Hays City Commission at Thursday's work session spoke in favor of a
staff recommendation to switch health insurance providers and offer a
high-deductible employee health plan.

A bid from Blue Cross Blue Shield for a triple option plan -- also offering more
traditional base and premium policies -- will be on the agenda at next
Thursday's regular commission meeting.

The city's current insurance carrier, Aetna, offered a renewal bid for 2017 that
showed a 7.9-percent cost increase. Blue Cross Blue Shield saw a similar cost
increase for traditional plans, but was selected because it offered a cheaper
high-deductible plan, said Erin Giebler, director of human resources.

City staff, along with a wage and benefit committee, studied 26 plan designs
before making a recommendation.

Health insurance costs are up industry-wide, but the city also has seen cost
increases due to the volume and severity of employee claims.

"I think we're lucky we got single-digit increases," Giebler said. "Any year you
get that for health insurance right now is pretty amazing."

The commission in 2010 set a $9,500 average per employee cap on health insurance
costs. The total cost to the city would be approximately $1.7 million, which is
the amount allocated in the 2017 budget.

City employees will be required to pay a portion of premium costs.

The commission also will consider allocating $150,000 in 2017 to provide up to
$925 in employer match for Health Savings Accounts. For now, the option is
planned only for next year as a way to supplement the high-deductible health
coverage, which is designed to control claims and keep costs down.

"Going forward, as we continue to absorb increases, the employees are just going
to have to pay more; that's just the way it is," City Manager Toby Dougherty
said. "This isn't just market-driven increases, this is also utilization. We've
had some pretty high-dollar claims the last few years."

Dougherty also praised city staff's efforts to identify the most cost-effective
health insurance option by seeking bids often. Switching health insurance
carriers isn't always a popular choice, he noted.

"A lot of employers try to avoid that negative feedback and stick with the same
plan," Dougherty said. "We've chased those low premiums every year, if
necessary, to try to get the best deal."

In other business Thursday:

--Commissioners discussed renewing a contract for Fort Hays Municipal Golf
Course pro-shop manager Richard Guffey. The contract will be on next week's
agenda.

--The commission had a 15-minute executive session to discuss possible property
acquisition.

--Dougherty provided more details regarding existing economic development
incentives in the area near Home Depot where a new retail development has been
proposed. Hays Investors LLC has requested a Community Improvement District tax
to help fund the project, and the commission will have a public hearing on the
issue Nov. 22.

___ (c)2016 The Hays Daily News (Hays, Kan.) Visit The Hays Daily News (Hays,
Kan.) at www.hdnews.net Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161104-EZ-City-discusses-rising-health-insurance-costs-1104-20161104

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EZ


                       Copyright 2016 The Hays Daily News


                              38 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             June 18, 1994 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

WRITING A SCRIPT FOR HEALTH FUNDS

BYLINE: KAREN MALEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1713 words


IT costs about $70 a month to buy basic hospital cover for a family. For that,
you get accommodation in a public hospital in a shared ward and your choice of
doctor.

For about $170 a month a family can buy "top of the range" health insurance,
which covers the cost of private hospitals as well as of dentists, opticals and
physiotherapists.

But, increasingly, we are deciding that private health cover does not represent
good value for money. And we're dropping out of the private health funds at an
alarming rate.

At the end of 1983, more than 61 per cent of the population held private health
insurance. Ten years later, this had fallen to just over 38 per cent.

And the head of the Private Health Insurance Association, Russell Schneider,
estimates that if present trends continue, just over 30 per cent of the
population will have private health cover by 1998.

But what does that mean for an industry that currently has turnover of more than
$4 billion a year?

According to some observers, falling membership levels mean that an already
concentrated health insurance industry is bound to become even more so.
Currently, Australia's top six health funds control 77 per cent of the market

Others predict that the big life companies will increasingly move in on the
health funds' turf. They argue that the distinction between health insurance and
general life insurance products is already beginning to blur, with the life
offices now vigorously selling products to cover "crises", including the chance
of developing serious illness.

Already National Mutual is the country's third largest health insurer,
accounting for 13 per cent of the total market. The group is now expanding its
health insurance operations and has recently moved into New Zealand.

And others are wondering whether it is significant that the new head of the AMP
Society, George Trumbull, has been recruited from CIGNA Insurance, which is the
largest health insurer in the US.

But perhaps the biggest question mark hanging over the industry - and one which
goes to the core of the industry's long-term viability - is whether the health
funds can manage to keep a lid on steeply rising health care costs.

Two-thirds of people who drop out of private health insurance, or who choose not
to take up private cover, cite the high price as the reason.

And in the past six years, the cost of health and medical insurance has more
than doubled.

There's been a drift towards more expensive coverage, further fuelling the rise
in average health insurance costs.

A recent investigation by the Prices Surveillance Authority into the cost of
health insurance points to a number of reasons for the price hike. These include
a rise in hospital costs caused by the increased availability of expensive
high-tech equipment and procedures, a rise in pharmaceutical costs and the
increasing use of private hospitals.

The cost of private health insurance has also been pushed up because the
younger, healthier members of the community are either not joining or are
dropping their health cover. This leaves the funds with a higher concentration
of older, sicker members, who are more likely to make health insurance claims

Some commentators argue that these steep price increases, which have prompted a
heavy exodus from the funds, pose a dire threat to the industry.

In fact, the head of Victoria's Health Department, Dr John Paterson, argues that
the private health insurance system is "collapsing before our very eyes"

"I think it's a downward spiral. The smaller it gets, the higher cost it gets,
and then even more people opt out, so it's a vicious cycle."

Dr Paterson says private health care in Australia is grossly over-priced for the
modest benefits it delivers to its members.

Everyone in Australia has access to basic medical and hospital services under
Medicare. People who take out private insurance get better choices and superior
hospital accommodation, plus a ticket to jump queues - but these are really only
slight improvements on what Medicare delivers for free.

This reflects the fact that Australia's health care system is set up in such a
way that people who take out private insurance pay for the total health service
they receive, and not simply the extra benefits they enjoy over Medicare
patients.

But there are others who argue the outlook for the private health insurance
funds isn't all that gloomy. Professor Dick Scotton from Monash University(and
one of the architects of Medicare) points out that the health funds still enjoy
growing revenues, and also fairly large surpluses.

He says that in 1992-93, the total surplus of all the health benefit funds was
$214 million, from $4.08 billion of income from their contributors. The previous
year, they had a surplus of $142 million, from $3.86 billion of contributors'
income. Currently, the health funds are sitting on national reserves of $1.17
billion.

HE SAYS they did have a bad spell in 1990-91, when they suffered an overall
deficit of $10 million, because they were mis-priced on some of their very high
cover table, but they managed to rectify this fairly quickly.

"At the moment, they're having success in selling their existing membership a
lot more insurance.

"Financially they're doing quite well. They're not in any crisis situation."

But, he says, there are reasons for the health funds to be apprehensive about
their long-term future, as they could be sitting on an eroding business

As public hospitals increase their efficiency and cut waiting lists, he says,
there will be less incentive for people to take out private health insurance.

In addition, he argues, there is an attitudinal shift away from private health
cover. Whereas the older generation tends to continue to think in terms of
private health insurance, the younger generation, which has grown up with
Medicare, is much less inclined to take it up.

On Monday, Federal Cabinet will consider a detailed report on the private health
insurance industry, which was prepared by a Caucus-ACTU working group.

The report agrees that the health funds are not facing a crisis. It says the
decline in membership reflects the recession and the pressure on incomes.

But, the report recommends that the Government introduce some measures that will
increase the appeal of private health insurance, such as loosening up the rules
so that the funds are free to design more creative and more competitive products
to attract people back to health insurance.

It also recommends that the health insurance funds should be able to negotiate
prices directly with hospitals and doctors. In this way, the private health
funds can keep a lid on the rising cost of health services - which they can then
pass on in the form of lower health insurance premiums.

In this way, the report is throwing the onus back on the industry to come up
with products and marketing strategies to staunch the flow of people from health
insurance funds.

It is an approach HCF's chief executive, Terry Smith, is likely to welcome.
According to Smith, the industry faces two big problems.

The first is the increased use of private hospitals by the privately insured,
which, he says, is what is driving the increase in health insurance costs. The
health funds pay two and a half times more for a member to stay in a private
rather than a public hospital.

The other problem, he says, is the funding burden the Government has shifted to
the private health funds.

"I think there's a group of people who have health insurance irrespective of the
price. So there's always going to be private health insurance ... The question
is, at what level will the majority of people drop health insurance?And I would
say that if we can't do something about these costs, then we will have a problem
- the industry will have a problem".

But, he says, the sharp rise in private health premiums is merely mirroring the
overall blow-out in health costs in the system.

"The cost increases we're seeing (in the private system) are about the same rate
of percentage increase as in the public system, so I think private health and
public health are all facing the same problem in terms of cost".

As Smith sees it, the future of the health funds industry depends on its ability
to locate hospitals which can provide good quality care at a reasonable cost,
and to negotiate agreements with these hospitals to treat their members.

In this way, health funds can limit price increases on health cover while still
giving members a wide choice of hospitals. Designing the right products is also
important, says Smith. "I think we're going to see products more along the line
of our Top Cover Plus, which provides 100 per cent cover in private hospitals,
with guaranteed no out-of-pocket expenses.

"BUT for such products to be effective we've got to break the nexus between them
and our having to cover people in every private hospital. It just means they can
charge whatever they like, and we've got no negotiating power".

He also sees a bigger future for the health insurance products, which give
consumers more flexibility in what they want covered.

"You will probably see more Medibank Select and Save type products. What you try
to do is to make the product appeal to the younger end of the market by
excluding conditions such as hip transplants and heart procedures."

There is no guarantee the Government will adopt the recommendations of the
Caucus/ACTU report. But the pressures in the private health insurance system are
such that eventually the Government will be forced to change the ground rules
for the private health funds to allow them to offer more competitive products,
and to combat sharply rising costs.

And the report's recommendations will at least give the funds breathing space in
which to try to combat dwindling membership numbers with better products, and to
devise new tactics to keep a lid on rising health costs.

As Smith puts it: "The market is contracting. It's a fact that this contraction
is due to cost, and it's a fact that the main driver in that cost is the
increasing use of private hospitals.

"Until we can sort out cost versus value, it will continue to contract. My
question is where do the private hospitals and the doctors draw the line - in
other words, when are they mobilised into saying this is getting too small? I
think that's also a question for government."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus:Terry Smith ... "If we can't do something about costs ... the
industry will have a problem." Photograph by ANDREW MEARES Three Graphs: Private
health insurance dilemma: Rising insurance costs from Dec 1986 to Dec 1993
Source: PSA, ABS; Membership falling....(population covered) from Dec 1986 to
Dec 1993 Source: AHIA; But still in good shape(Industry reserves) from 1984/85
to 1992/93 Source. PHIAC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1994 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            April 29, 2008, Tuesday

Wages not keeping up with health insurance

BYLINE: Eric Eyre

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1C

LENGTH: 507 words


ericeyre@wvgazette.com

A new national study confirms what many working West Virginians already
suspected: Employee wages aren't keeping pace with the higher cost of their
health insurance premiums.

In West Virginia, the average cost of health insurance premiums increased 12
percent from 2002 to 2005, according to a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation study
released today. At the same time, policyholders' wages dropped nearly 2 percent.

"Not only are health-care costs skyrocketing, but in terms of purchasing power,
we're losing ground," said Perry Bryant, executive director of West Virginians
for Affordable Health Care.

Nationwide, health insurance premiums climbed even faster - 30 percent, though
wages increased by 3 percent.

The report also spotlights how health-care cost increases are making it more
difficult for companies to provide insurance to their workers.

In West Virginia, the number of private businesses that offered health insurance
to their workers fell by about 2,300 from 2002 to 2005, according to the study,
which was conducted by researchers at the University of Minnesota.

Less than half of West Virginia businesses offer health insurance to their
employees.

Also, 16,100 fewer West Virginians worked in private-sector jobs that provided
health insurance benefits in 2005, compared to 2001.

"It's pretty disturbing," said Bryant, whose organization is sponsoring a "Cover
the Uninsured" rally at the state Capitol Saturday morning. "Less than 50
percent of firms are offering health insurance. If we really want to do
something for businesses in West Virginia, it's aggressively holding down
health-care costs."

West Virginia businesses also are paying a larger share of workers' total
insurance costs - about 82 percent - the second-highest percentage in the
nation, according to the study. The average cost of a family health insurance
policy for a West Virginia worker was about $10,900 in 2005 in premiums for
family health insurance coverage, about $200 more than the national average.

"We haven't done enough for businesses to hold down health-care costs," Bryant
said. "More and more businesses, more and more families, have to pay a higher
burden for health care."

The study found that the percentage of West Virginians with private health
insurance fell by about 7 percent between 2001 and 2005.

Steve Roberts, executive director of the West Virginia Chamber of Commerce, said
his organization recently surveyed small-business owners across the state who
identified increased health-care costs as their No. 1 concern.

"Small businesses are struggling to find anyone even willing to write [health
insurance] policies," Roberts said. "The challenge is as the nature of our
economy has shifted to small businesses and a service economy, those jobs, in
many cases, don't come with comprehensive benefits. Those are the people who
suffer financially when they get sick."

About 18 percent of West Virginians - about 274,000 people - don't have any
health insurance.

To contact staff writer Eric Eyre, use e-mail or call 348-4869.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers


                              40 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                 November 04, 1999 Thursday, RT. 9 WEST EDITION

Retired teachers' insurance is spared;
 Ware keeps costly coverage, for now

BYLINE: J.P. Ellery; CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: WARE



About 30 retired Ware teachers were breathing easier yesterday.

The Board of Selectmen decided unanimously Tuesday not to cut the retirees from
a state health insurance plan paid 90 percent by the town. Instead, a committee
will be formed to review the health insurance coverage offered to all town
employees, active and retired, in an effort to reduce costs.

"I think it would be a mistake at this time to eliminate insurance for retired
teachers," Town Counsel David A. Wojcik advised selectmen at a hearing in Town
Hall that was moved to the main floor to accommodate the more than 100 people
attending.

The expense of the retirees' health insurance, which is provided only to retired
Ware teachers, not to other retired town employees, has climbed to $117,000 per
year. It was first given to retired teachers by a vote of selectmen in 1972
under a state law that allows such contributory coverage only to retired
teachers.

At that time the cost was inexpensive and not a factor in the decision,
according to the current selectmen.

Over the years, roughly 70 retired Ware employees from other town departments
have failed to gain the same health insurance protection. There have been at
least four local ballot votes.

"We treat non-teacher retirees differently," Wojcik said. "I don't think anyone
can say this is ... fair."

Selectman John A. Desmond said after the hearing that Ware's health insurance
costs for all town employees have jumped from $700,000 in 1994 to $1.1 million
in fiscal 2000. In the last three years alone, the town's cost for health
coverage has climbed 48 percent, while the overall town budget has increased 31
percent, he said.

"What can we do to bring these costs under control?" Desmond asked.

Wojcik said at the hearing that the total cost of providing health insurance to
all town employees should come under scrutiny, not just the cost of the retired
teachers' benefit.

"Our health insurance (cost) is going up at a very great rate," he said. "This
is not sustainable."

Ware pays top dollar for its Blue Cross-Blue Shield Master Medical Plan for
active town employees, and Wojcik suggested a health maintenance organization
option be considered as a way of reducing costs.

"I now have HMO coverage (myself)," Wojcik said.      After the hearing, Desmond
said the cost of paying 90 percent of active town employees' health insurance,
which is part of union contracts or collective bargaining agreements, must be
revisited.

"We've had these discussions time and time again, and they've gone nowhere," he
said. Those attempts were to reduce the town's 90 percent contribution, change
to a reduced-cost health insurance plan, or both.

Desmond said perhaps there is a way to provide health insurance to all retired
and active town employees at a cost Ware can afford.

In other action Tuesday, Villa's nightspot at Main and Parker streets, which
serves liquor, withdrew its application to allow 18- to 20-year-old patrons on
the premises to mingle with those who drink.

Villa's wants underage customers to come in and dance or listen to
entertainment. Two years ago selectmen turned down a similar request.

"We have taken every step possible to prevent these minors from coming in
contact with any alcoholic beverages," Villa's wrote in its application.

Town counsel recommended that Villa's reapply and request an entertainment
license from selectmen. An entertainment license could stipulate that patrons
under age 21, the legal drinking age in Massachusetts, be allowed admittance to
watch a disc jockey or a band perform.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1999 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              41 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                         Low-Cost-Health-Insurance.org

                              60 29Th Street # 110
                            San Francisco,  CA 94110
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.low-cost-health-insurance.org

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Low Cost Health Insurance strives to help you find affordable health
insurance coverage to fit your needs. With rising healthcare costs in the United
States, finding the right insurance coverage for you and your family or business
can be quite a feat. Fortunately, Low Cost Health Insurance has the connections
to get you the quotes that allow you to make a well-researched and informed
decision. Simply fill out our short quote form, and Low Cost Health Insurance
will be able to connect you with health insurance agents licensed in your area
who can help you compare your options. Remember, you must fill out accurate
information on the form in order to receive an accurate quote.  Don't let
expensive premiums keep you from protecting your most prized possessions - your
family and your health. Let Low Cost Health Insurance help you find the coverage
you need at a price you can afford!  Low-Cost-Health-Insurance.org is not an
insurance carrier or broker. We cannot guarantee a quote from a specific
carrier, and we cannot guarantee that all products are available in all states.
The information and suggestions on our site are intended for informational
purposes only, and we expressly disclaim any representations or warranties,
express or implied, regarding the accuracy of such information.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              42 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             June 17, 2004 Thursday
                                Coastal Edition

Five Town CSD passes support staff contract

BYLINE: TOM GROENING OF THE NEWS STAFF

SECTION: Pg. B2

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: CAMDEN


A deadlock over a union contract with school support staffers is expected to be
resolved within days.

On Tuesday, the Five Town Community School District board voted to ratify a
contract with the Megunticook Educational Support Association, which represents
education technicians and clerical staff at the district office and at Camden
Hills Regional High School in Rockport.

The CSD provides education for grades nine-12 for Camden, Rockport, Hope,
Appleton and Lincolnville.

The SAD 28 board, which oversees education for kindergarten through fifth grade
in Camden and Rockport, is expected to follow suit. The 70-member association is
also expected to endorse the contract. Association members have been working
without a contract for two years.

Negotiations stalled over a proposal by the districts no longer to offer health
insurance benefits to the dependents of new employees. The boards of both
districts said they would continue to offer dependent health insurance to
faculty, which rankled support staff.

A key point in the agreement blocks the spouse of a support staff member hired
after July 1 from using the district's health insurance plan if the spouse is
eligible for coverage under his or her own employer.

The same provision will apply to all support staff beginning in 2006-07,
Superintendent Pat Hopkins said Wednesday.

Employees requesting health insurance coverage for a spouse must complete a
certification form each year attesting that the spouse does not have access to
health insurance through an employer. If the spouse is self-employed, the spouse
must attest that he or she does not provide group health insurance to his or her
employees.

Health insurance benefits for support staff hired before July 1 over the next
three years of the contract includes 100 percent of the cost for the employee,
and 83 percent of the cost for dependent coverage in 2004-05; 81.5 percent of
the cost of dependent coverage for 2005-06; and 80 percent of the cost of
dependent coverage for 2006-07. Those hired after July 1 must contribute more
toward the cost of health insurance in their first year of employment.

The contract retroactively applies to 2002-03 and 2003-04. It grants wage
increases of 2.5 percent and 3 percent, respectively, and provides 100 percent
of the cost of health insurance for the employee and 84 percent of the cost of
dependent coverage, or 87 percent of the cost of another health insurance plan.

The contract, which covers the next three years, provides raises of 3.5 percent
in 2004-05 and 3 percent for each of the next two years, as well as a
20-cent-per-hour raise to the base pay for those with 15 years with the
district.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2004 Bangor Daily News


                              43 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 23, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MONEY MADE EASY;
YOUR FIVE-MINUTE GUIDE TO... ; HEALTH CASH PLANS

BYLINE: Mark Channing

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 614 words


The cost of health insurance has more than doubled since 2009 and could jump
again, according to the Irish Health Insurance Council. The body, which
comprises all four private health insurers, has warned that the government's
plans to charge private patients the full cost of using public hospital beds
could result in health insurance premiums going up by 30%. This would force a
further 300,000 to cancel their health insurance, according to the council. We
look at what health cash plans offer in terms of providing cover.

WHAT ARE HEALTH CASH PLANS? Health cash plans pay you cash towards the cost of a
wide range of everyday medical treatments such as GP and dentist visits. They
can be attractive to cash-strapped consumers because they are relatively cheap.

The Hospital Saturday Fund (HSF) has been the dominant provider of cash plans in
Ireland with more than 100,000 customers but new players have entered the market
in recent years. In 2012 GloHealth became the first mainstream health insurer to
offer cash plans. Laya Healthcare launched its own range of cash plans last
month.

HOW MUCH DO THEY COST? The HSF's family plans range in cost from (EURO)114 to
(EURO)972 annually. Depending on the level of cover, you can recoup part or all
of the costs of a range of medical expenses. You also get personal accident
cover along with entitlements to childbirth and adoption grants. The HSF's
family plans are not related to how many people are on your policy so children
are covered at no extra cost. It also has cash plans aimed at individuals which
cost (EURO)156 to (EURO)624 a year.

GloHealth's Hospital Care plans for families cost between (EURO)249.50 and
(EURO)624 while individual plans cost between (EURO)187 and (EURO)468 annually.
Laya Healthcare's family cash plans cost between (EURO)248 and (EURO)550 a year.
Its individual plans range from (EURO)165 to (EURO)325.

DO CASH PLANS PAY FOR HOSPITAL TREATMENT? Health cash plans are not designed to
meet the costs of hospital treatment. You can claim cash back for each night
that you have to spend in hospital but this will only go towards covering
out-of-pocket expenses rather than the cost of hospital treatment itself.
Depending on the level of cover, the HSF's family plans pay (EURO)20 to
(EURO)120 for each night you stay in hospital up to 40 nights. GloHealth's
Hospital Care plans pay (EURO)40 to (EURO)120 per night up to 20 nights. Laya
Healthcare's schemes pay (EURO)20 to (EURO)40 per night up to 40 nights.
Consultants' fees incurred as part of a hospital stay are not covered.

ARE CASH PLANS AN ALTERNATIVE TO HEALTH INSURANCE? Cash plans are primarily
intended to help cover routine healthcare costs such as GP visits, dental visits
and optical care. Health insurance gives you comprehensive medical cover
including fast access to hospitals, treatment and procedures. Dermot Goode of
Healthinsurancesavings.ie, an adviser, said: "For people who can't afford health
insurance, and want to have something in place that gives refunds on routine
expenses, then cash plans are an option. If you are buying a cash plan because
you think that it gives you a reduced level of health insurance cover, it
doesn't."

TOP TIPIt can make financial sense to take an excess on your health insurance
policy and use a cash plan to claw this back if you need to pay it. Health
insurance experts say a small policy excess can reduce your health insurance by
up to 20%. The cheapest cash plan on the market costs (EURO)9.50 per month and
pays (EURO)20 for each night that you, your spouse or your children spend in
hospital so should cover part, or all of your health insurance policy excess
should you have to pay it.

Mark Channing

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Rising health costs

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 405 words


WITH A substantial rise in premiums during 2011, people are finding it
increasingly difficult to pay for private health insurance. Aviva has just
announced a 15 per cent increase which comes on top of a 14 per cent and a 9 per
cent hike in premiums earlier this year. The VHI shocked its customers with
price increases of up to 45 per cent last January, while Quinn Healthcare has
also increased its charges.

Overall, the cost of carrying private health cover has jumped by almost 100 per
cent in recent years. The unprecedented price hikes have been especially painful
for those who traditionally could afford basic private health insurance. For
those who have always relied on the public system for their health needs, the
changes have not had a direct impact.

Or have they? Minister for Health James Reilly is committed to a Dutch model of
mandatory health insurance chosen from a range of providers. Under universal
health insurance (UHI), everyone will receive free GP care with premiums either
paid for or subsidised by the State. According to the FairCare strategy
document, the cost will be no higher than current private health insurance
premiums, with the State paying the total insurance costs of children and those
with medical cards. Some 75 per cent of UHI funding will come from taxation.

The commitment that the cost of UHI will not exceed current private health
insurance is no longer the soothing reassurance it may have been. The Irish
Patients Association has said it can see an average family of four paying up to
EUR 8,000 a year for private health insurance in the foreseeable future. Such a
cost would represent a huge challenge to most family budgets.

But the seemingly unstoppable premium increases also pose a direct threat to the
Minister s plans. As costs increase exponentially, the cost to the State to even
partially subsidise UHI for those without medical cards will be enormous. While
there can be no denying the laudable aim of UHI   to get rid of the two-tier
health system in favour of a single, more equitable one   basing it on the
current private insurance model may not be the best way forward. A commitment to
publish a White Paper setting out how UHI will be implemented must be published
soon and not left until the end of 2012, as planned; we must be given the
opportunity to tease out, in full, the feasibility of the Minister s plans
before continuing further down an increasingly rocky road.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                              March 9, 2015 Monday

Report suggests health insurance be linked to a job

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 635 words


Pressure is rising for people to pay more of their health costs, Rob Stock
writes.

--------------------

Starting a new job could in the future also see you being automatically enrolled
in a personal health insurance plan.

The KiwiSaver-style approach to boosting the number of people with private
health insurance could take pressure off the state health system, according to a
report to be published Monday.

The report by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research (NZIER) canvases
the policy options that politicians have at their disposal to encourage people
to buy their own private health insurance.

One option would be to mimic an aspect of KiwiSaver and auto-enrol people in a
health insurance plan when they start a new job.

The NZIER report was paid for by the Health Funds Association, the lobby group
for health insurers such as Southern Cross, nib, and Sovereign.

With an ageing population, government spending on healthcare is rising, and
there will be growing pressure to further ration services and encourage people
to pay more of their own healthcare costs, says NZIER.

Health insurance pays for the costs of things such as surgery and hospital stays
for people who pay premiums every month, meaning the state does not have to pay
for their care. But the number of people with health insurance has been falling
as a result of large rises in premiums driven by higher medical costs.

NZIER canvassed a range of options, but found the "most promising" to be "a
KiwiSaver-style" scheme.

"This option would involve legislation requiring that all employers provide
access to health insurance for employees and their families," NZIER says.

Auto-enrolment, or "soft compulsion", would aim to overcome people's "status quo
bias" while allowing them to opt-out if they wanted to.

Auto-enrolment could be made even more effective by offering a "targeted
enrolment subsidy" and requiring employers to pay part of the premiums, NZIER
said.

The subsidy would not be available for people who already have health insurance.

NZIER looked at the viability of a general subsidy for people already paying for
private health insurance, but it would not deliver a big enough reduction in the
government's healthcare spending to justify the expense.

Similarly, NZIER found that removing fringe benefit tax on employees whose
employer pays some or all of their health insurance premiums was not likely to
provide savings for the taxpayer.

If there was no appetite for a KiwiSaver- like option, lawmakers could instead
require employers to offer health insurance to new employees and just let the
employee decide whether to take it out.

Health insurers have been struggling with the falloff in the numbers of people
with insurance and have in the past lobbied for fringe benefit tax breaks on
premiums, and for tax breaks for the elderly on their insurance.

Roger Styles, chief executive of the Health Funds Association, said the report
found that health insurance could play a big part in funding future healthcare
costs, and that there were big productivity gains to be had from helping people
return to work faster.

Styles said that NZIER has found that increasing the number of workers covered
by health insurance by 20 per cent could save around $60 million to $110m in
lost output, because they would get treated faster than on the state.

NZIER also considered whether adopting an Australian-style "tax surcharge" on
higher-income earners who do not have health insurance. Fifty-six per cent of
people earning $70,000 or more do not have private health insurance. Fairfax NZ

--------------------

CAPTION:

Cutting back: Health insurance pays for the costs of things such as surgery and
hospital stays, but the number of people with health insurance has been falling
as a result of large rises in premiums driven by higher medical costs.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                    November 03, 2005 Thursday, ALL EDITIONS

Soaring health-benefit costs a threat to municipal progress

BYLINE: Kevin O'Sullivan

SECTION: COMMENTARY; AS I SEE IT; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


The cost of health insurance benefits in Worcester is driving up taxes and
reducing city services - exactly the wrong direction for this "city on the
move."

I was most fortunate to represent the city in the Legislature during a time of
deep fiscal crisis in the late 1980s and early 1990s. My children have gone
through the public schools and my current job is attempting to nurture the
development of small biomedical companies here in the city. In all that time,
I've never seen the prospects for this city brighter. From the success of the
Worcester Tornadoes, to the progress being made downtown in the CitySquare
project, on Shrewsbury Street and Gateway Park, the signs of momentum are
everywhere.

But as someone who has wrestled with deep structural deficits in the state
budget - and who knows a budget-buster when he sees one - like many, I see the
skyrocketing cost of insuring city employees as a threat to Worcester's fiscal
stability and long-term success.

I also see it as a matter of fairness for city taxpayers who in their own jobs
are required to shoulder some of the burden of their own health insurance
increases. Is it unfair to ask these same taxpayers to pay all of the health
insurance premium increases for city workers through higher property taxes? Yes,
I think it is.

Over the last several years the cost of health insurance for city workers has
increased by almost $30 million.

To meet this cost increase, property taxes have also increased steadily while at
the same time the city has eliminated hundreds of jobs.

This is truly the worst possible scenario - higher taxes and reduced services,
all due to out-of-control health insurance costs. Those same millions could have
put more teachers in the classroom and more supplies in the hands of our
children. It is money that could have been used to sweep more streets, to fix
sidewalks, or to put more police and firefighters on the street.

Instead, there are fewer teachers, less school supplies and fewer city workers
to provide the services taxpayers expect and deserve - all because employee
health costs for Worcester city and school department workers are demonstrably
higher than the norm for virtually any other public- or private-sector
employees.

Both The Research Bureau and the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation agree on
this. A Research Bureau report written earlier this year stated that Worcester
was spending about $1,200 more in health insurance per city worker than the
average city surveyed - that's an astounding total of $6.6 million dollars more
annually.

The Taxpayers Foundation found that the cost of providing health coverage for
municipal employees in Massachusetts increased more than 60 percent from 2001 to
2005. In Worcester, the increase in that same time period was almost 100 percent
- that's 35 percent more than the statewide average!

Can you imagine what the increase in property taxes spent on health insurance
was worth in terms of services to the average residential property taxpayer over
this period of time?

That's bad enough - but the reality is that most of those same taxpayers
probably had to pay more for their own health insurance over the past several
years as well.

Most employers want to treat their workers fairly, and the city is no exception.
Worcester needs to offer competitive benefit packages to attract and retain
dedicated, hard-working employees. And we do.

Competitive is one thing - overly generous is something else. And let's face it,
Worcester is overly generous and it is time for some readjustment.

By my calculation 15 percent of the city's operating budget now goes to pay
health insurance costs. Any private business paying 15 cents of every dollar for
these costs is not going to survive. Thus, private business concluded some time
ago that it was sheer economic necessity to ask employees to absorb some of
their higher health insurance costs. The current split cost of nearly 90 percent
by the city and 10 percent by the employee is one reason the city is paying $70
million annually in health insurance for active and retired employees. If this
trend continues, this means next year the city will see a $7 million increase in
this account alone.

The city's move to negotiate contracts toward a 75 percent city 25 percent
employee share of health insurance cost is absolutely necessary to keep our
fiscal house in order. Taxpayers should ask no less of public employees and the
union leadership that represents them.

I applaud the city administration and members of the City Council and School
Committee as well as a growing number of public employee groups for the steps
they have taken already to control these costs in a manner that is fair to both
employees and taxpayers alike.

We are all in this together. Continuing down this road without changing the
health insurance status quo is an injustice to the long-term viability of our
city and the pride we all share in Worcester's public service delivery system
currently in place. We need cooperation and we need action now to reverse this
impending budget disaster. The residents of Worcester who pay the bills deserve
no less.

Kevin O'Sullivan of Worcester, a former four-term state representative, is
president and CEO of Massachusetts Biomedical Initiatives.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              47 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

WALKER'S DELAY COULD SABOTAGE HEALTH REFORM

BYLINE: Robert Kraig

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 608 words


Just before Christmas, Scott Walker announced yet another attempt to sabotage
health care reform.

New competitive health insurance marketplaces (so called "health insurance
exchanges") are a centerpiece of the Affordable Care Act, the new national
health care reform law. Wisconsin received a $38 million grant to be one of the
leading states in designing this reform, and Walker officials have until now
repeatedly stated that they will fulfill the terms of the grant. The goal is to
establish greater competition in cost and quality among health insurance
companies and consumer standards that outlaw the worst insurance abuses such as
the denial of coverage based on pre-existing conditions, and to guarantee more
consumer options for high-quality affordable health coverage.

Walker has now shifted the state's position, stating that Wisconsin would
suspend planning for implementing the health marketplaces until the U.S. Supreme
Court decides legal challenges this summer. The problem is that Wisconsin's full
implementation plan is due by the end of 2012, and the Legislature will already
be out of session before the case is decided, leaving Wisconsin unprepared to
meet the deadline.

Walker and his top officials actually seem to believe that skyrocketing health
insurance costs and access to affordable coverage are not major problems in
Wisconsin. Last fall, Walker's insurance commissioner vehemently defended the
health insurance industry, asserting that Wisconsin's health insurance market is
working well and costs are "manageable." Walker's health services secretary
claimed that the nearly 65,000 people he wants to force off BadgerCare will
still have access to affordable coverage, reflecting a completely unrealistic
view of what health consumers actually face when they seek to obtain coverage.

Arch-conservative state Sen. Frank Lasee, R-De Pere, recently asserted that all
anyone who needs coverage has to do is Google "health insurance quote" to get
excellent and affordable options. Of course, the senator fails to mention that
anyone who tries to buy insurance will face discrimination if they have any
pre-existing conditions or if the insurance industry considers them or any
family member a bad risk.

Walker and Lasee's "rose-colored glasses" view of the Wisconsin health insurance
market is not borne out by the facts. According to Citizen Action of Wisconsin's
annual Wisconsin Health Insurance Cost Ranking report, health insurance premiums
in Wisconsin have skyrocketed by 182 percent since 2000, 18 percent above the
national average. The report also found stunning variations among regions of
Wisconsin. The northwestern, north central, and southeastern areas are about 30
percent more expensive than Madison, a difference of about $2,000 per year for
single health coverage.

This disparity between Madison and the rest of the state provides tantalizing
evidence that market reforms have the potential to rein in skyrocketing costs.
Madison's insurance costs are lower because it has more competition based on
cost and quality, and a stronger purchasing pool (state employees) with more
market leverage to put downward pressure on costs. The Affordable Care Act
offers a great opportunity to create a more competitive health insurance market
where consumers have real choices.

Whether Walker's motivation is political, or he is merely carrying water for the
health insurance industry, it is reckless to suspend planning for reform without
any public discussion, and without developing any serious alternative to a
status quo that is not working for Wisconsin.

Robert Kraig is executive director of Citizen Action of Wisconsin.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            November 20, 2015 Friday

700k of taxpayers money spent on shelved Universal Health Insurance reports

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 342 words


Four separate reports were commissioned on the topic, three by the Government
and one by the Health Insurance Authority (HIA), the private health insurance
market regulator.

Asked by the Irish Examiner for a breakdown of the figures, the Department of
Health said it incurred costs of  211,972 in connection with the preparation of
the white paper on UHI. It said the main elements of expenditure related to:

Legal research and advisory services on technical aspects of UHI ( 141,450);

Costs associated with the public consultation on the white paper ( 56,637);

The remaining costs totalling  13,884 included Irish translation services for
UHI publications, costs associated with the UHI Implementation group and travel
costs for international experts.

The department said the figure of  211,972  is exclusive of normal staffing
costs .

A report by the Economic and Social Research Institute entitled An Examination
of the Potential Costs of Universal Health Insurance in Ireland cost an
estimated  320,000.

The department said it was undertaken as part of a three-year programme of
research agreed between the ESRI and the department.

The agreed average annual cost of the three-year programme is  393,000.

The estimated cost of the report is  320,000 approximately,  it said.

A second ESRI report entitled Income-Related Subsidies for Universal Health
Insurance Premia: Exploring Alternatives Using the SWITCH Model, cost an
estimated  90,000.

The department said it was undertaken as part of its membership of the steering
group of the SWITCH (Simulating Welfare and Tax Changes) Research Programme.

A fourth report, UHI Premia Costing Report, prepared by KPMG on behalf of the
HIA, cost  55,350.

Fianna Fáil s Billy Kelleher said it was  extraordinary the Government would
spend so much on a scheme that deep down they knew wasn t working .

They had no actual plan in terms of implementation, and only after committing to
it did they carry out due diligence. They spent close to  700,000 of taxpayers
money and the upshot is they still have no plan,  he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 29, 2013 Thursday

County considers new insurance plan for employees

BYLINE: Amanda Seitz, Hamilton JournalNews, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words


Aug. 29--BUTLER COUNTY -- Officials here are looking to offer employees
different health insurance plan options next year to drive down rising costs and
save money for taxpayers.

The county is bracing for a $1 million increase in health insurance expenses,
and Butler County Commissioners are working on a formula to split those costs
between county employees and taxpayers.

To offset rising health insurance costs, county commissioners Thursday
considered a new, $2,500 high-deductible plan for employees to select. The plan
would still drive up costs by about $210,000 for the county and pass on a
collective $777,000 in cost increases to employees. The county will spend $11.6
million on health insurance costs this year, according to county documents.

The county has tried to shop for a new health insurance provider in hopes of
lowering its costs, but five major health insurance companies have either
declined to be a provider or offered up services at a 30 percent to 35 percent
rate increase.

Those companies have cited the county's claims experience as an issue, said
Marcia Ryan, a representative from health benefits company Horan, who spoke to
the commissioners during Thursday's work session.

"For every dollar collected, $1.20 is going out," Ryan said of the county's high
rate of insurance claims.

The Hamilton JournalNews/Middletown Journal first reported last week that a
county employee had filed a record-breaking $5 million health insurance claim
within the last year through the county's provider, the County Employee Benefits
Consortium of Ohio. The claim will stay on the county's record for 15 months.

Introducing a high-deductible plan for county employees to select would lower
health insurance costs and give employees more out-of-pocket costs in favor of a
lower month premium. Employees would still have access to low-deductible plans
for a higher cost under the plan commissioners are considering.

Ryan said the high-deductible plan would likely attract younger, single workers
who don't have high medical bills.

"The high deductible, low cost plan, could benefit our employees here,"
Commissioner Cindy Carpenter said.

The county is also considering a few additional charges for employees to
generate revenue to pay for the plans in 2014 or 2015.

Commissioners could select to charge an extra $50 for smokers who are on the
health insurance plan. A $100 monthly charge for spouses who join the county
health insurance plan is also an option commissioners are considering for this
year or next.

Commissioners must finalize the health plan options for 2014 by Oct. 4.

___ (c)2013 the Hamilton JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) Visit the Hamilton
JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) at www.journal-news.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130829-HL-County-considers-new-insurance-plan-for-employees-0829-20130829

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HL


                        Copyright 2013 The Journal-News


                              50 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                             August 15, 2005 Monday

Health insurance costs hammer small businesses;
Some companies pass on some of the burden to their employees, while others drop
coverage altogether.

BYLINE: URVAKSH KARKARIA

SECTION: Pg. FB-12

LENGTH: 1614 words


Never mind cut-throat competition from China, $67-a-barrel oil or finicky
customers. A more insidious threat to the bottom line may come from within --
and one many businesses are helpless to fend off.

Providing health insurance to employees is "a major cost of doing business,"
said Peter Osterman, chief financial officer of W & O Supply, a distributor of
pipes, valves and fittings to the marine industry that employs about 165
companywide. "And, it's one that continues to escalate . . . at double digit
rates, far in excess of normal inflation rates."

The burden is particularly heavy for small businesses. Just ask the Billingses.

The mom-and-pop auto repair business used to offer its three employees insurance
through an HMO. But after monthly premiums soared 75 percent over a four-year
period, the owners had enough.

"It was extremely unaffordable," said Angie Billings who along with husband
Brian began the business in 1991.

In 2002, Billings Automotive switched employees to individual health insurance
plans which cost $125 a month compared with monthly premiums of $437 under the
HMO plan in 2002. Billings pays 50 percent of the premiums.

Under the HMO plan, employees only paid a monthly premium and a co-pay for
doctor visits. Under the new plan, however, employees pay a monthly premium, a
$500 annual deductible and co-pays for doctor visits. Once the deductible is
exhausted, employees must pay 20 percent of medical costs.

Health insurance is "one of those things you want to offer your employees
because its necessary in life," Angie said. "Unfortunately, it's a huge cost."

The Billings situation is symptomatic of a ballooning trend.

Nearly 73 percent of employers statewide offered health insurance to workers in
2004, according to a Florida Chamber of Commerce survey released in May. That's
down from over 90 percent in 1999.

PINCHING PROFITS

While providing health insurance is good for employees' health, it is proving to
be bad for some companies' financial health -- particularly companies with fewer
employees. But businesses continue to offer the benefit to retain talent.

The upward trajectory of health insurance costs "really puts a squeeze on our
profits," said Jorge Morales, president of Jacksonville-based Information &
Computing Services.

The software developer and systems integrator, employs about 100 companywide,
including 80 locally, and must offer health insurance to attract and retain
scarce talent.

"In the technology sector, good benefits [are] an important part of a package,"
Morales, said. "If we drop the benefits we stand to lose a lot of real good
people."

A competitive market prevents the technology firm from passing on higher health
care costs to customers. That's meant some tough decisions for Morales.

Health insurance inflation is forcing the company to delay hiring despite
growing customer demand, and could trigger layoffs, Morales said.

"We would be growing faster than we are," he said. "It's impacting our ability
to grow."

Spiraling health insurance costs are not just the albatross of small businesses.
General Motors Corp., which spends more on health insurance than it does on
sheetmetal, has been brought to its knees partly because of health care
obligations to employees and retirees.

The percentage of private sector jobs with health care benefits has dropped by a
third since 1990, said Brian Klepper, president of the Jacksonville-based Center
for Practical Health Reform.

Klepper refers to rising health care costs as a "tremendous dilemma" for
businesses.

"They would rather continue to offer employees health insurance," he said. "But
they are being priced out of the market" because health care premiums have grown
2.5 to seven times general inflation in each of the last four years.

As health insurance costs snack on the profit pie, businesses are forced to pass
on more of the burden to employees.

Over 40 percent of respondents to the Chamber survey said the cost of health
care cut into profits while nearly 29 percent said it hurt pay raises and
bonuses.

Health insurance costs represent about 40 percent of an average employee's total
annual compensation at W & O, Osterman said.

It's "the single largest crisis for the United States, second only to national
security," he said.

Health spending growth outpaced overall economic growth by 2.6 percentage points
in 2004, despite a robust 5.6 percent increase in the overall U.S. economy as
measured by per capita gross domestic product, according to a study by the
Washington D.C.-based Center for Studying Health System Change [HSC], published
in June.

For the fourth year in a row, although to a lesser degree than in recent years,
employers in 2005 increased patient cost sharing, through higher deductibles,
copayments and coinsurance, to cope with high premium increases, the nonpartisan
policy research organization said.

"Employers appear either to have reached what they consider the limits of
acceptable patient cost sharing or to feel less pressure to shift costs to
employees in light of the improving economy and recent decline in the premium
trend," Bradley Strunk, an HSC researcher and study coauthor said in a
statement.

Promo Depot is one company asking employees to shoulder more of the financial
burden. The Jacksonville-based specialty advertising and promotional marketing
firm switched insurance carriers in 2003 after facing a potential 40 percent
hike in monthly premiums.

On average, annual health insurance premiums at Promo Depot have spiked about 15
to 20 percent annually, said Debby Harris, vice president of finance and
co-owner. Employee deductibles were also doubled to $1,000 annually.

SHIFTING COSTS

Paying for insurance is "incredibly challenging," Harris said.

"The reason we haven't done away with [health insurance benefits] is because we
value that benefit so much for our employees and we think it is important that
they have insurance," she said. "We feel we have a responsibility to our staff
to keep them insured."

While the benefit helps retain and attract talent, it also cuts down on lost
time due to illness. If employees know they have insurance, they will get
medical treatment earlier instead of waiting until a problem worsens and becomes
harder to treat, Harris said.

Promo Depot said it would look at cutting other programs and costs before axing
health insurance.

"We'll switch companies or [do] whatever we have to do," Harris said. "We don't
want to raise our deductible any higher."

Attracting and holding onto talent is one reason W & O is doing the unthinkable
-- providing no-premium health insurance to employees with single coverage.
Employees, however, pay deductibles and co-pays and can opt for richer health
plans that require premiums.

"We believe that [health insurance is] an important part of retaining quality
employees," Osterman said. "We are still doing it and we're going to attempt to
do that when our renewal comes up . . . in October."

The generous benefit also translates into a more productive workforce allowing W
& O to be competitive -- sales per employee have grown about 15 percent annually
over the past three years.

"It's important to have good employees because they translate into good revenues
and margins and net income," Osterman said.

Regardless, the benefit does not come cheap. W & O has seen a 10 to 16 percent
annual spike in health care costs over the past four years -- and it accounts
for about a third of the supplier's employee benefit costs.

But the steady uptick in health care costs is wearing Osterman's patience thin.

OTHER OPTIONS

Some companies are looking at other ways to cut health care costs without
dropping coverage altogether.

Companies are more likely to drop health insurance coverage for employee
dependents than they are for employees, said Randy Kammer, vice president of
regulatory affairs and public policy at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida.

Businesses have a vested interest in providing health insurance to employees so
they can continue to work and be productive, Kammer said.

JaxCare, which provides health insurance to Jacksonville's uninsured, low-wage
workforce, is hearing from businesses smarting from high health care costs.

"We get a lot of calls from businesses complaining about the high cost of
commercial coverage and wanting to know if they can drop their coverage and take
JaxCare," said Rhonda Poirier, president and chief executive. "The answer is
no," because workers must earn 200 percent of the federal poverty level or less
and be uninsured for six months to qualify.

In an effort to sidestep the cost of insuring workers some firms also replace
some permanent staff with temporary workers hired from a staffing firm like MPS
Group.

"More and more employers are using temporary staffing companies because it
[transfers] the burden of health insurance to us," said Tyra Tutor spokeswoman
with the Jacksonville-based firm. "And we are a large employer, so we are able
to negotiate great health care benefits."

MPS specialty consultants who are farmed out to businesses, get the same
insurance plans that the company's corporate employees receive. However, the
consultants pay 30 percent to 40 percent of the premiums, while MPS staff pay
about 20 percent. Other non-specialty consultants, who receive a more limited
health insurance plan, pay about 50 percent of the premiums.

Contrary to the trend at many area businesses, the relatively rich health
benefits at W & O have been spared -- for now.

If health care costs continue to climb, the company will have to either reduce
benefits or pass on more of the cost to employees, Osterman said. "It's likely .
. . to happen in the foreseeable future."

urvaksh.karkaria@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4367

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Cover illustration by Kyzandrha Pratt/The Times-Union JASON LUEBKE/The
Times-Union RISING RATES BRUCE LIPSKY/The Times-Union Peter Osterman Jr. is the
chief financial officer of W & O Supply Inc. W & O pays 100 percent of health
insurance costs for employees with single coverage. BRUCE LIPSKY/The Times-Union
Atma Maraj moves a pallet of space valves at W & O Supply Inc. Maraj has been
with the company about 18 months and is enrolled in he insurance plan. BOB
MACK/The Times-Union Embroidery operator Goranka Djuric works on a cap order on
the embroidery machine at Promo Depot Inc. Small firms are dealing with rising
health care costs by passing off the cost increases to their employees.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 The Florida Times-Union


                              51 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday

Report: Pittsfield could save $5.6M

BYLINE: By Tony Dobrowolski, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: HEALTH; Headlines

LENGTH: 776 words


PITTSFIELD -- After exploring several health insurance scenarios over the last
three months, a committee of city officials has found that Pittsfield could have
saved $5.6 million this fiscal year if it had joined the state's insurance pool.

Following those findings, Mayor James M. Ruberto announced he will submit a
petition to the City Council within the next few weeks that would allow
officials to engage in coalition bargaining with Pittsfield's 18 municipal
unions to join the Group Insurance Commission.

The GIC has administered health benefits for state employees and retirees since
1955. Last year, the Legislature passed the Municipal Partnership Act, which
allows cities and towns to join the GIC as part of the same risk pool, which has
more than 294,000 members.

In order for Pittsfield to join the GIC, all 18 of the city's collective
bargaining units have to agree to the measure by a margin of at least 70 percent
of a vote "weighted" along each union's membership. The unions normally
negotiate contracts with the city separately, under the process that is known as
collective bargaining. But the GIC negotiations require the unions to negotiate
with the city as one group, a method known as coalition bargaining.

"There are complications and complexities with the unions themselves to
determine if they want to engage in coalition bargaining," Ruberto said. "The
first step is the authorization that the two parties are willing to talk."

The heads of nine collective bargaining units were among the 22 people in
attendance Monday night when the health insurance committee's findings were
revealed at a special meeting of the City Council.

Holly A. Taylor of True North Financial Services, the city's health insurance
broker, has told the City Council that the city could initially save millions of
dollars by joining the GIC, but that those savings could dissipate due to the
cost of getting all 18 unions to agree to the plan.

The earliest the city could join the GIC is fiscal 2010. The city would be
required to notify the state by October to have city employees receive GIC
health insurance benefits by July 1, 2009.

The nine-member health insurance committee, which includes four city councilors,
Ruberto, and four city officials, was formed in January to explore the option of
having the city join the GIC. The committee examined health insurance trends in
Pittsfield over the last 10 years and compared the city and the GIC plans under
various scenarios in a 27-page report.

The committee found the city could have saved $5.6 million in fiscal 2008 by
comparing the total health insurance costs for Pittsfield's employees and
retirees with a GIC cost scenario in which the entire city pool of employees and
retirees was split evenly between health maintenance organization and preferred
provider plans. The committee believed that scenario was the most likely option
if Pittsfield joined the GIC.

The total fiscal 2008 costs under Pittsfield's current health insurance plan are
$23.4 million, while the total costs under the GIC scenario were $17.8 million.

Ward 5 Councilor Jonathan N. Lothrop, who chaired the committee, said joining
the GIC would keep health insurance costs down. Taylor told an employee
commission last week that Pittsfield's health insurance costs are scheduled to
increase 8.6 percent in fiscal 2009, with the city's share expected to rise by
$1.6 million.

"In order for us to continue to have good health benefits, we have to bring in
an affordable cost," Lothrop said. "We need to explore this option."

Lothrop said there are "accommodations" within the GIC plan to pay for a
community's catastrophic health insurance claims. A large number of catastrophic
claims caused Pittsfield's total health insurance costs to increase 18 percent
in fiscal 2007.

The committee also found that city employees who currently pay 20 percent of
their health insurance costs would realize annual savings of $451.44 on
individual plans, and $1,025.76 on family plans under the GIC. The city, which
picks up 80 percent of its employees health insurance costs, would save
$1,805.76 annually on individual plans and $4,102.80 on family plans.

The GIC has 10 individual health insurance options as compared to four in the
city's plan, and some of the GIC's individual co-pays are higher than the
city's.

Ward 3 councilor and committee member Linda M. Tyer said that city employees
should determine which GIC option best suits their needs.

"Look at your own financial resources and health needs and decide which of the
plans works best for you and your family," she said.

To reach Tony Dobrowolski: TDobrowolski@berkshireeagle.com , (413) 496-6224

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                              April 1, 2013 Monday

Mandates push city health costs;
Projected $4.8M increase for FY 2014

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


New federal and state mandates are helping to fuel a 9 percent increase in the
city's health insurance costs for its employees and retirees.

With the city in the process of setting premium rates for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, municipal health insurance costs are projected to increase by
$4.8 million - $1.8 million for the city side of government and $3 million for
the public schools - with mandates responsible for most of the increase.

City Manager Michael V. O'Brien said the increased costs will need to be borne
by city taxpayers. As a result, funding will have to be diverted from other
municipal services to pay for the higher health insurance costs.

In addition, the manager said, another $1.6 million will have to be borne by
employees and retirees, who pay 25 percent of their health insurance premium
costs while the city pays 75 percent.

"This increase is primarily due to new federal and state medical coverage
mandates," Mr. O'Brien wrote in a report that goes before the City Council
Tuesday night.

Acting Assistant City Manager Kathleen G. Johnson said the new mandates include
new coverage requirements for many different medical categories as well as
coverage for dependents to age 26.

Previously, the city only covered dependents to age 19 or to age 25 for
full-time students.

When the city had an audit done in 2009 of those covered under its health
insurance plans, it found a number of dependents over age 19 who no longer
should have been covered by the city.

With the removal of those people from the health insurance rolls, the city was
able to save $800,000.

But Ms. Johnson said the new federal mandate to cover dependents to age 26 not
only eliminates the savings that had been achieved, but it doubles the number of
dependents ages of 19 to 26 now covered under a city health insurance plan.

She said that requirement alone has increased the city's health insurance costs
by $2.4 million annually. In all, federal and state mandates equate to $3.5
million a year in additional health plan costs, she said.

Another contributing factor to the increased costs is that municipal health plan
members have generated medical claims that are running higher than industry
averages during the past 18 months.

Ms. Johnson said city medical claims costs are trending at about 105 percent of
the premium funding.

In addition, she said, the city has a number of "high-cost claimants" who are
estimated to generate similar or larger claims in the coming year, as determined
by known trends, such as chronic conditions and pending transplants.

"We must include these trends in our fiscal year 2014 premium projections," Ms.
Johnson said.

Contact Nick Kotsopoulos at nkotsopoulos@telegram.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                             March 16, 2008 Sunday

A solution for what ails Mass. cities and towns?

BYLINE: By Brandon Butler

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 1330 words


FITCHBURG -- Some city officials say it's time to switch health-care providers
to save money as health-insurance costs continue to rise.

Councilor at-large Marcus DiNatale sponsored a petition last week requesting a
cost-analysis study to determine if an alternative health-care provider could
save the city money.

"Health insurance costs in the city and all over the state and country are
rising by leaps and bounds" DiNatale said. "With increases of 15 percent one
year, 12 percent the next, it's a major concern."

City Auditor Richard Sarasin said the city expects to pay $11.2 million for
health insurance this fiscal year, a 12 percent increase.

City officials paid $10.15 million last fiscal year year for health insurance as
rates went up by an average of 15 percent.

Health insurance costs have risen dramatically in the past five years. Since
fiscal year 2003, rates have gone up by about 67 percent. In fiscal year 2003,
the city spend about $6.9 million on health insurance, Sarasin said.

The city has more than 1,000 employees, retirees and family members on a Blue
Cross Blue Shield plan, while about 140 other people are insured with a Fallon
Community Health plan, Sarain said.

A perfect time to change

Ward 1 Councilor David Clark said the city has numerous alternative options that
could save the city money.

"Now is the perfect time," Clark said.

Any change in the city's health-care options would have to be negotiated with
the nine unions, Clark said.

Negotiations with eight of the nine unions are ongoing, so he said this is a
good time for the city to change providers.

Clark wants to have all new municipal employees pay an extra 5 percent for
health insurance as a way to provide additional money for the city. The
initiative would not effect current employees, he said.

"Over time it will mean that the working person will be paying more into the
system and the city will be paying less," he said.

The Group Insurance Commission

Clark also wants the city to join the Group Insurance Commission, the
53-year-old state agency that provides health insurance to about 286,000 state
and municipal employees.

The state passed a law in July 2007, allowing municipalities to buy into the
GIC.

Robert Johnson, deputy director of the GIC, said he expects 25 communities to
join the GIC in the next year.

"We tailor plans in parts so that each plan we offer is at the minimum cost,"
Johnson said about how the GIC works.

GIC commissioners negotiate health-insurance plans with multiple providers, such
as Blue Cross Blue Shield, Harvard Pilgrim Health, Tufts Health Plan and also
regional providers, Johnson said.

Johnson said GIC rates went up only 7 percent this year, and said he expects
increases to remain under 10 percent in future years.

"We have very nice trends," he said.

The key, he said, is economies of scale. With more people insured under the
plan, everyone gets a better rate because they have more leverage when
negotiating rates.

"When you're part of a much larger group of people, it gives you more
year-to-year stability," Johnson said. "I don't see the costs going up more than
they have in the past. Our goal is to keep increases as small as they can be
every year."

Meredith Rosenthal, associate professor of health economics and policy at the
Harvard School of Public Health, said the GIC is an attractive option to many
communities because it allows them to negotiate as a group.

"They have buying power," Rosenthal said of the GIC. "The advantage of the GIC
is that it's like going to BJs, the GIC is big."

Fitchburg Mayor Lisa Wong said she supports the city joining the GIC and said it
could save the city, at a minimum, hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.

"I'm in favor of joining the GIC," she said. "But we're going to look at all the
options and see which one is best."

Wong agreed with councilors that something needs to be done about
health-insurance costs.

Wong said the third highest cost increase in the city next year contributing to
a $5 million budget deficit is the 12 percent rise in health-insurance costs.

"This is the time we have to talk about this," Wong said.

Chris Murphy, spokesperson for Blue Cross Blue Shield, said there are some
disadvantages to the city joining the GIC.

For example, the city would be locked into the commitment for between three to
six years. Currently, the city has the freedom to renegotiate health-care
options each year.

Johnson, the GIC deputy director, admitted that by joining the GIC, a community
is locked in for several years.

"We need to have a certain amount of stability within the process," Johnson
said.

Furthermore, Murphy said Fitchburg, or any other community, can do other things
to "put downward pressure on cost" without changing health-care providers.

"You can increase copayments, you can put deductibles in place," he said. "We
offer a full suite of products, so there certainly are options."

He said Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts recently unveiled a new product
called Municipal Blue, which is created specifically for cities and towns. He
said it is similar to the GIC, with cost-sharing options in an effort to lower
costs for cities.

"There are a lot of cost-saving benefits with this plan, similar to the GIC, but
it allows you to stay with Blue Cross, which means you don't have to cease
control of your health care decisions," he said.

Wong said the GIC "certainly has restrictions we would have to consider" and
said also that any change in the city's health-care plan would have to be
negotiated with each of the city's unions.

Cost-savings measures

Ann Ludlow, manager of the Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association's
Health Benefits Trust, said there are other things a community can do to save
money too.

She said the MIIA helps communities enter into group health insurance plans with
other municipalities in an effort to save money.

"Communities come together to buy health insurance, that helps to spread the
risk of claims costs over a larger base and typically provides better stability
of rates over time," she said.

Wong said this too is an option the city could look into.

"This is something I want to continue to see explored," Wong said.
"Regionalization is a good concept but may not work in every case."

Wong said Fitchburg already has competitive rates, including cost-sharing plans
that allow the city to only pay 75 percent of health costs while employees pay
25 percent.

Some other communities, she said, have cities bearing 80 percent of costs while
employees pay 20 percent, this costs the city more money, she said.

Leominster Mayor Dean Mazzarella said his city last year negotiated a new 75-25
split with some of the city's unions as a cost saving measure.

Even with that change, the city will pay about $12.4 million for
health-insurance costs this fiscal year, he said.

"We look at everything, every option," Mazzarella said. "It's something you
always have to be looking at."

He said rising health insurance costs are plaguing cities and towns across the
state.

"Every year you think that maybe you'll be able to save some extra money, maybe
not raise taxes as much, then you get your bill for health insurance,"
Mazzarella said.

Rosenthal, the Harvard School of Public Health professor, said multiple factors
have contributed to rising costs in health insurance.

"The major factor driving health insurance costs is the cost of health care and
the major factor driving health care costs is the continued advance of new
therapies," she said. "New devices, new drugs, fancy new surgical techniques,
all of which have benefits, but also costs."

Rosenthal said there is likely not much of a price difference among different
health insurance providers, instead the savings for a city would be found in the
benefits offered. But she said, decreased costs lead to decreased coverage.

"You get what you pay for," she said. "There are tradeoffs. In a budget crisis
you have to find ways to save money, but giving employees a high-deductible
plan, that's a major cut in benefits."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

Insurance mandates misguided

BYLINE: Glen Mulready

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 422 words


As the cost of health insurance has exploded in the past few years, many
employers have been unable to afford the rising premiums. Many Oklahoma
employers have dropped their health coverage altogether while others have had to
pass the increases to their employees so they too are feeling the pinch.
Proposals that mandate coverage have many unintended consequences.

Benefit mandates that are proposed in legislation each year increase the cost of
health insurance. Estimates are that there are now more than 1,000 benefit
mandates in existence. Various studies have shown that mandates add as much as
25 percent to the cost of insurance premiums. As more mandates are imposed,
fewer people can afford health insurance, adding to the number of uninsured. In
Oklahoma, the problem of the uninsured is a far bigger strain on our health care
system than any one individual diagnosis. Of the more than 500,000 people in
Oklahoma who are uninsured, the vast majority are uninsured for one reason only
- they can't afford to buy the coverage!

National Association of Health Insurance members service the health insurance
needs of millions of Americans. Their clients include large and small employers
as well as people seeking individual health insurance coverage. Every day, our
members work to obtain insurance for clients who are struggling to balance their
desire to purchase high-quality and comprehensive health coverage with the
reality of rapidly escalating health premium costs. As such, one of our primary
goals as an association of benefit specialists is to do everything we can to
promote affordable access to health insurance coverage.

While the intent of such proposals may be to provide needy individuals with
access to cover their specific diagnosis, these proposals actually hinder
affordable access to health insurance coverage for others. Mandated benefits
cost health insurance carriers and employers money and those costs are shifted
to the consumer in the forms of increased premiums and cost-sharing
requirements, reduced benefits and lower wages.

Mandating that health insurers provide coverage for specific conditions at this
moment is not the approach we need to take to ensure "coverage for all."

We have serious concerns about proposals to mandate coverage for certain
conditions and we strongly urge members of our Legislature to implement prudent
measures that make health insurance more affordable - not less.

Mulready is chairman of the Oklahoma State Association of Health Underwriters'
legislative committee.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Erie Times-News (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            December 27, 2015 Sunday

Affordable Care Act plans carry added costs

BYLINE: David Bruce, Erie Times-News, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 553 words


Dec. 27--ERIE, Pa. -- Lisa Kelleher was happy in 2014 when about 50 of the
patients at St. Paul's Neighborhood Free Clinic bought health insurance through
the federal government's Health Insurance Marketplace.

Getting health insurance is a goal for many patients of the clinic, which only
treats low-income Erie County residents who are uninsured. Insurance gives them
access to physicians and hospitals throughout western Pennsylvania.

But 12 of those 50 patients have since dropped their health insurance and
returned to the Erie clinic.

"They came back due to the out-of-pocket deductibles they had to pay," said
Kelleher, the clinic's executive director. "They couldn't afford them."

The Affordable Care Act has been a godsend for many uninsured residents across
Erie County, offering health insurance plans with low monthly premiums --
especially if the person's income qualifies for tax credits.

But the out-of-pocket costs of some of these plans can exceed $6,000 a year --
far too much for someone on a limited income, Kelleher said.

"For some of them, it came down to paying their deductible or paying rent,"
Kelleher said. "So they stopped their insurance and started coming back to the
clinic for their medical care."

More than 394,000 Pennsylvanians have signed up for health insurance in 2016
through the marketplace.

Michelle Robertson, a certified marketplace navigator for Erie County, said she
discusses out-of-pocket costs with people when they apply for coverage.

"We talk about how the premium is only one of the potential costs," Robertson
said. "Many of them realize that, but some don't."

Michael Murnock was fully aware of the out-of-pocket costs when Robertson helped
him purchase health insurance through the marketplace for 2015.

The 63-year-old McKean Township man is satisfied with his current health
insurance, but was dismayed to learn his current Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield
plan will not be offered for 2016.

"Highmark sent me a letter telling me the new plan would have a lower premium,"
Murnock said. "But I found out it has huge out-of-pocket costs, including that I
would have to pay the first $6,000 of a hospital stay."

Murnock worked with Robertson to select a different Highmark plan for 2016 that
costs about $70 a month more than his current plan, but covers more medical
costs.

"I can deal with the higher premium but if I was hospitalized and slammed with
all of those out-of-pocket costs, I would have to talk with the hospital about a
payment plan," Murnock said.

The St. Paul clinic has seen a decline in patients since the marketplace opened.
It treated 431 different patients in 2015 (through Nov. 20), compared with 477
in 2014.

But Kelleher said the drop is due more to increased enrollment in Medical
Assistance than to the marketplace.

"I don't know what will happen next year," Kelleher said. "I know the penalty
for not having insurance will be higher ($695 or 2.5 percent of the household's
income, whichever is higher), but it's difficult to judge what people's behavior
is going to be. We will be here, providing medical and dental services."

DAVID BRUCE can be reached at 870-1736 or by e-mail. Follow him at
twitter.com/ETNbruce.

___ (c)2015 the Erie Times-News (Erie, Pa.) Visit the Erie Times-News (Erie,
Pa.) at www.GoErie.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151227-EI-Affordable-Care-Act-plans-carry-added-costs-1227-20151227

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EI


                         Copyright 2015 Erie Times-News


                              56 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                  September 25, 2002 Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Health costs a threat to jobs;
 City asks union to compromise

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER



- With the city facing the prospects of a 20 percent increase in health
insurance costs next fiscal year, several city councilors contend personnel
layoffs will be inevitable if employee unions seek to maintain the status quo in
benefits.

They urged union leaders to be more receptive to compromises in health benefits
than they have been in the past so the city does not have to make further
reductions in municipal services.

The councilors asked the city administration to begin health insurance
discussions with the unions as soon as possible.

''It can no longer be business as usual in this city,'' said Councilor-at-Large
Konstantina B. Lukes. ''Health insurance provides no services to the public.
This year, we had to pick up an $11 million increase in our health insurance
costs. We can't keep doing this any more. We are in a dire fiscal crisis here.''

But an official with the local police union criticized those city councilors who
blame the employee unions for the city's higher health insurance costs, saying
their statements were ''totally disrespectful'' and an attempt at ''union
busting.''

Anthony M. Petrone, vice president of Local 378, International Brotherhood of
Police Officers, said he was surprised at the rhetoric directed at the unions by
those councilors even before negotiations with the city have begun.

He said it is premature to ask employees to agree to compromises in their health
insurance when the city does not have a firm idea of what its health insurance
costs will be.

Officer Petrone said the employee unions are sensitive to the city's fiscal
situation. But he pointed out that previous cost-increase projections made by
the city have proven erroneous and over-inflated. He said he would like to see
the city manager personally get involved in the discussions with the unions.

''Health insurance is the most sacred benefit we have,'' Officer Petrone said.
''We also have to look out for our retirees. People who have worked 30 or 40
years for the city deserve to be treated fairly. No one knows now what the
numbers are going to be. For some of the councilors to say the things they did
about the unions was totally disrespectful. I'd like to see Tom Hoover sit down
with us and lead the charge on this issue for the city.''

Janice Borg Silverman, the city's director of human resources, said her
projected 20 percent increase in health insurance costs was based on meetings
she had last month with various health insurance providers.

''Increases of this magnitude will again significantly constrain the city budget
and our ability to provide necessary services,'' Ms. Silverman said. ''We must
be able to secure compromises on plan design with our unions. We plan to be even
more aggressive in this year's negotiations with employees, realizing that we
need to educate all parties as to the available alternatives in order to limit
the financial impact to both the city and employees.''

Councilor-at-Large Juan A. Gomez pointed out that health insurance already costs
the city $45.1 million. He said there is no way the city could afford a possible
20 percent increase at a time when it is looking for ways to reduce its expenses
so it can maintain basic municipal services.

Councilor-at-Large Michael C. Perotto said if a compromise is not reached on
health insurance, employee layoffs will be inevitable. He said escalating health
insurance costs have compounded the city's financial crisis.

Councilor-at-Large Dennis L. Irish said the threat of possible employee layoffs
is not a hollow one. He said the city is already struggling to provide a minimum
level of services.

''We need movement on this issue and if we don't get that, the citizens of this
city will be in for a world of hurt,'' Mr. Irish said.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              57 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                       June 16, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

UAE Medical Insurance Report Highlights Cost of Health Insurance in UAE

LENGTH: 316  words


June 16 -- UAE Medical Insurance (a licensed division of Medstar, a wholly owned
Pacific Prime subsidiary) has recently released the second article of a three
part report on the cost of health insurance. Titled: The cost of health
insurance in top expat destinations, this article looks at health insurance
premiums in six top expat destinations, including the UAE.

Because the number of countries is lower in Article 2, UMI has increased the
number of insurance providers from six to eleven. Each provider was selected
because they offer three types of plan to the four main demographic segments in
the report.

To make this report as easy as possible to navigate it has been segmented by
country, with each country being further divided by demographic and then again
by plan type. This allows the reader to quickly find the relevant information
they are looking for. This information includes:

Each of the six countries being ranked based on the average cost of insurance.

The spread of costs based on each demographic

The spread of costs based on plan type

An analysis that looks at the costs of individual international health insurance
in each country and the major influences.

Highlights for the UAE

Despite cities like Dubai offering some of the most advanced medical care in the
region, if not the world, the country is ranked 5th out of 6 in terms of the
cost of health insurance.

Couples can expect to pay between USD 3,264 and USD 14,132 for a plan -
depending on the type of coverage they select.

The premium for a single international health insurance plan falls between USD
1,632 and USD 7,066.

Because the DHA reforms enacted in early 2015 have made insurance mandatory for
all foreign workers, it is essential that companies and expats looking to move
to Dubai secure insurance before they arrive. As such, Article 2 can be a big
help in the search for the right plan.

Source: UAE Medical Insurance

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday

Plan: Lower health costs

BYLINE: By Tony Dobrowolski, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: HEADLINES

LENGTH: 635 words


PITTSFIELD -- In an effort to keep the escalating cost of health insurance in
check, state Rep. Christopher N. Speranzo is supporting the creation of a "local
option" that would allow cities and towns to join the Group Insurance
Commission, which provides health insurance and other benefits for state
employees and select other groups.

The GIC pays less for health insurance plans and offers more diverse plans than
most cities and towns can offer their employees and retirees, according to
information provided by the Metropolitan Area Planning Council, which has
explored this initiative. The rate of growth for health insurance costs for the
state has been half the rate of growth that many municipalities have experienced
over the past several years.

Speranzo, a Pittsfield Democrat, said he has filed legislation in favor of this
option based on his experience as Pittsfield's city solicitor when the city's
health insurance costs rose beyond the increase in tax levy limits allowed by
Proposition 21/2.

"There's no end in sight," Speranzo said. "Looking years and years out, there
are double-digit increases. ... This would allow the city of Pittsfield to bring
this line item under control."

Mayor James M. Ruberto did not return a telephone call seeking comment.

In Pittsfield, the total cost of all health insurance, including the city and
employee contributions, increased from $12.2 million in fiscal 2002 to $17.9
million in fiscal 2005. The total cost of health insurance in Pittsfield was
projected to rise to $20.4 million in fiscal 2006.

But the city's health insurance broker, Holly Taylor of True North Financial
Services in North Adams, said yesterday that the final numbers are expected to
come in around $1.9 million less than that projected figure, because the number
of health insurance claims came in well below what was expected.

"We had a very good year," Taylor said.

But Taylor said the total cost of health insurance in Pittsfield for fiscal
2007, which began July 1, is projected to rise to $22.1 million. The city of
Pittsfield's contribution for fiscal 2007 is $18.4 million, up from $16.7
million the previous fiscal year, according to city Treasurer G. Richard
Bordeau.

Pittsfield's self-funded health insurance pool contains around 3,300 employees
and 750 retirees who are on a Medigap plan, Taylor said. According to Speranzo,
the GIC has over 265,000 family members and dependents to draw from. The larger
number would lower the increase in Pittsfield's health insurance costs because
the city would be joining a larger pool to draw from.

"I really don't know," Speranzo said, when asked how much Pittsfield would save.
"But if you look at the average increase in Pittsfield, it's in the double
digits. It would take that to single digits immediately. ... I think it gives a
municipality a great tool to bring this cost, which is spiraling out of control,
under control."

The GIC also provides more choices to employees and retirees than most municipal
options, including Pittsfield's.

The proposal also requires that a decision to join the GIC be made collectively
among municipal leaders, and public employee and retiree representatives. All
decisions about contribution ratios would continue to be made at the local
level, but the GIC would have the responsibility for contracting with health
care insurers and making plan design decisions.

According to Speranzo, the GIC pays 85 percent of health insurance claims to
members' 15 percent. The contribution rate for retirees is 80-20, he said.

The local option proposal is supported by several organizations including the
Metro Mayors Coalition, the Massachusetts Municipal Association, the
Massachusetts Teachers Association, AFT-Massachusetts, AFSCME Council 93, and
the Retired State, County & Municipal Employees of Massachusetts.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Christopher N. Speranzo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                               December 28, 2014

Employers face health costs hike

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 379 words


Employers who offer health insurance to staff as a benefit could face extra
costs in 2015 when new rules kick in next May.

From May 1, higher charges will apply to people who are 35 years or more when
they first take out health insurance. Someone over 35 who takes out health
insurance for the first time after May 1 will face a loading of 2 per cent per
year.

Health insurance experts believe that the loading could present an issue for
employers who provide health insurance as a benefit for staff if they hire an
employee without health insurance.    Who covers the additional cost for the
loading if they join the company scheme?   said Anne Frawley, head of healthcare
consulting at Mercer.

According to Dermot Goode, a health analyst at Total Health Cover, many
employers are unaware of the impact of the new rules. He said that employers
should consider fixing their costs on health insurance by capping health
insurance benefits for staff at a set amount.

Aongus Loughlin, head of healthcare and risk consulting at benefits consultants
Towers Watson, said it was likely that employers would continue to cover the
cost of the health insurance scheme, but employees may have to pick up the tab
for any loading that applies.    I'd expect many employers will decide to keep
the subsidy the same,   he said.

Meanwhile, health insurers are gearing up for a busy few weeks ahead as the
traditional policy renewal season draws near for thousands of consumers.

Figures from health insurers suggest that large swathes of their customers will
receive renewals notices in January and February - 25 per cent of Aviva's book,
20 per cent of Glo's and just over one third of Laya's.

VHI declined to give exact figures on its renewals in January and February, but
did point to a busy period ahead.

The latest figures from the Health Insurance Authority (HIA) revealed that 2.018
million people in Ireland now have health insurance, down from the market's peak
of almost 2.3 million insured people at the end of 2008.

.....

**The figures**

**2.3 m:**The number of people with health insurance when the market peaked at
the end of 2008

**2.018 m:**The number of people with health insurance now

**8%:**The increase in health insurance costs in the last year according to the
Central Statistics Office

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 8, 2015 Wednesday

Pacific Prime releases Article 1 of a 3 part report on cost of international
health insurance

LENGTH: 246  words

DATELINE: New York


Bio Medicine has issued the following news release:

Pacific Prime has released the first article of a new, FREE report looking at
the cost of individual international health insurance plans in 94 countries.
Titled, The cost of health insurance for expats in 94 countries, Article 1 looks
at the average cost of health insurance in 94 countries and ranks the 20 most
expensive and 5 least expensive countries.

Taking premiums from three plan levels offered by six of the top international
health insurance providers in the industry (who represent 30-50% of such plans
sold in the world), the average cost for each country has been calculated with
zero deductible or excess, and displayed for plans for Singles, Couples,
Families, and Retirees.

Report Highlights:
The most expensive country in the report is, unsurprisingly, the US - with an
average cost of USD 21,892, 49.7% more expensive than the second most expensive
plan.
Israel is in the top 5 most expensive plans for every demographic - with an
average cost of USD 10,125, the third most expensive country on average.
Poland is the cheapest country for individual international health insurance -
with an average cost of USD 6,687
Asia has some of the most expensive premiums - Hong Kong, Singapore, and China
are in the top five for every demographic.
The average price for individual health insurance plans.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucester Advocate

                           February 8, 2017 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

Easing the concern of health insurance

BYLINE: Laura Polson

LENGTH: 429 words


Changes are being considered that could save up to $800 million a year on health
insurance, according to Assistant Minister for Health and federal member for
Lyne Dr David Gillespie.

Dr Gillespie agreed that the rising costs of health insurance is a source of
concern for many Australians.

He added the federal government was looking at ways to cut health insurance
costs with 'a review into prosthesis'.

He explained a committee was looking into the price of prosthesis, as there
appeared to be a 'arbitrage' between the market price and the government listed
price of the artificial body parts.

"If everyone was paying market price rather than what the government say the
price is, health insurers estimate they could save $800 million a year - and
that's a lot," Dr Gillespie said.

Dr Gillespie confirmed the rising cost of health insurance concerns the
government and that the 'value judgement issue is critical'.

"Health insurance costs are going up and there is a concern within the industry
and within government about increasing costs. The previous health minister
(Sussan Ley) had initiated reviews and ways to help. (Minister for Health) Greg
Hunt is now looking at these reviews."

Dr Gillespie said Ms Ley was considering gold, silver and bronze systems to make
it easier for people to understand and compare what they get.

"There are a lot of junk policies.'' he said.

"These are health insurance policies that exclude most of what people need to
have covered and just pay for easy things, rather than the expensive things."

Dr Gillespie said the 'existential problem' with health insurance is the
community rating which is challenged by low numbers.

"Around 35 years ago, everyone had health insurance and it was relatively cheap
because everyone had it. Now only 47 per cent of people have health insurance,"
he pointed out.

"Imagine how expensive your car insurance would be if only half the cars on the
road were insured and the ones that held insurance were the ones likely to
crash. That's sort of what's happening - if health insurance doesn't remain
affordable for the average family and the average worker, less people will hold
it, so the premium will have to go up more, which will make it less affordable."

Within weeks the Federal government will inform health insurers whether their
requested premium rate increases from April 1 2017 have been approved.

In an interview with Citi analyst Nigel Pittaway, the Herald Sun reports health
insurance premiums could grow this year by the smallest amount in a decade, as
the government tries to "score a win" for consumers.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           October 11, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Cutting back on health coverage Businesses broach the scary

BYLINE: JIM HAUG - BUSINESS WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 601  words

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH


Six years ago, John Koberg could afford to be generous with his employees health
insurance. The president of Mid-Florida Sportswear Inc., 2415 Bellevue Ave.,
Koberg paid for 95 percent of the premium. Today he covers 55 percent of the
cost. The monthly cost per employee has more than doubled from $133 in 1997 to
$272 now. As an employer of 20, most of whom are women, Koberg said he would not
drop health insurance, but admits those thoughts do go through my mind.

As health insurance costs continue to spiral, more employers are thinking the
unthinkable. According to a survey of 200 employers by The Chamber, Daytona
Beach/Halifax area, 33 percent said they will consider eliminating health
insurance benefits if they get another cost increase.

Thats the scary part, said Jim Cameron, vice president for governmental
relations for The Chamber. Some employers have seen their health insurance costs
increase by 40 percent to 50 percent over the last two years, said Pat Mozden,
co-owner of Mozden-McClain Insurance, 140 S. Beach St. As a result, they are
asking employees to pay a bigger portion of their premiums or employees are
getting fewer benefits and more co-pays.

Small employers are to the breaking point, Mozden said. If theyre hit with
another big increase, they may not able to afford to stay in business. While
employers are not required to provide health insurance, employers say the
benefit helps reduce turnover and increase productivity. Robert Weinberg, the
president of RW Contractors Inc., 919 N. Nova Road, said he would lose the
confidence of his employees if he canceled their health insurance.

Its like a necessary evil, said Weinberg, who has experienced 10 percent annual
increases in his companys health insurance. The Chamber has made the issue its
No. 1 priority during the next legislative session, Cameron said. Cameron would
like to see alternatives for employers who otherwise could not afford health
insurance, such as letting small employers form groups so they can qualify for a
cheaper rate. Chamber lobbyists also want a review of the states 49 mandates on
health insurance carriers. Many of the mandates are worthy, such as requiring
mammograms, but they come with a price tag, he said. Cameron doubts whether
Florida, which ranks No. 2 in the nation for mandates on health insurance, can
afford any more.

The big enchilada is adding mental health coverage, he said. It would be great,
but we see it as adding a lot of costs as well.

Weinberg thinks the whole health care system, including medical liability, needs
to be reviewed by an objective third party, rather than a committee of special
interest groups.

We keep trying to patch the system, he said. Its like trying to patch a leaking
tire.

Mozden, the insurance agent, thinks many of the factors inflating the costs of
health insurance are beyond a legislative fix. People, for instance, are living
longer and requiring more medical care. New technologies are increasing peoples
quality of life, but are costly as well. It is not like the door can be closed
on innovation.

You want 2003 health care, you dont want 1973 health care, Mozden said. The new
trend in health insurance is consumer-driven plans, which require consumers to
pay more of the up-front costs of health care, such as the real cost of the
doctors visit. These plans have become very popular around the country. Mozden
predicts they will be coming here soon. In any case, health insurance is a
complicated problem, she said. People could save a lot of money by taking better
care of themselves. But, Mozden said, theres no single solution out there.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: John Koberg, president of Mid-Florida Sportswear, stands in
the print shop Wednesday as employees Kathy Hartman and Tom Trepanier print
shirts. Six years ago Koberg paid 95 percent of his employees' health-insurance
premiums. As the cost of premiums has doubled since then, he covers just 55
percent now.News-Journal/DAVID TUCKER

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2003 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2003 News-Journal Corporation


                              63 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Edmond Sun (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 17, 2011 Friday

City health insurance costs rise 16.5%

BYLINE: Mark Schlachtenhaufen, The Edmond Sun, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 714 words


June 17--EDMOND -- City health insurance costs have risen 16.5 percent and
employee costs have risen 14.3 percent partly due to new federal health care
legislation, a city official reports.

In March 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. The legislation will reduce the cost of providing health
insurance and make it easier for employers to offer coverage to their workers,
Nancy-Ann DeParle, assistant to the president and deputy chief of staff wrote
June 8 in "the White House Blog."

"We have implemented the law at every step of the way to minimize disruption and
maximize affordability for businesses, workers, and families," she wrote.

But health insurance-related costs in many quarters have been rising.

Edmond City Manager Larry Stevens said although insurance premiums have not
increased for four consecutive years, both city and employee costs went up 16.5
percent and 14.3 percent, respectively. The city's health insurance consultant
estimated that roughly one-third of these increases were due to potential
ramifications from the new federal health care legislation, Stevens said.

No increases are anticipated in the first half of the next budget year for
either the city or the employee contribution rates, Stevens said. However,
another increase in both rates is a possibility in January, he said.

City officials will meet regularly with the Employee Health Insurance Committee
in the next several months in determining plan recommendations for the 2012
calendar year, Stevens said.

Stevens said compared to the significant premium increases that have annually
occurred in many public and private entities throughout the country, Edmond's
program has been much more successful in cost containment. City employees
deserve part of the credit for this track record, as their ownership of the
program has helped to monitor and contain costs, he said.

Two different fiscal years are now involved in each year of the health insurance
program because the annual contract is now based on a calendar year.

In January, a major change was implemented in this program. A two-tiered plan
was implemented, which allowed employees the option of keeping the same coverage
through an "enhanced" plan for an additional cost, or opting for reduced
coverage at no increase in cost.

The overwhelming majority of employees -- 93 percent -- opted to pay more to
keep the same coverage, Stevens said.

Edmond's self-funded health insurance program for all full-time city employees
continues to be the most important employee benefit, Stevens said. The full cost
of coverage for individual employees has been provided by the city for many
years, as well as 75 percent of the costs for optional dependent coverage.

Spokeswoman Ashleigh Clark said the city has a total of 652 employees receiving
health benefits. Of those, seven are less than full time employees.

Numbers of recipients in individual departments range from 125 individuals in
the Police Department and 117 in the Fire Department to seven each in the animal
welfare, facility maintenance, community image and planning departments.

ANOTHER COST RISES

Another rising cost for the city is related to retired employee benefits.

Stevens said in order to comply with the reporting requirements for Other
Post-Employment Benefits from Statement 45 of the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board, every other year a number must be actuarially determined for
budgeting purposes to address the outstanding liability for retired employee
benefits.

Next year's budget includes a major increase in this amount, from a revised
estimate of $643,499 in this year's budget to almost $1 million -- $978,660 --
in 2011-12.

Stevens said to continue funding this liability at the actuarially determined 70
percent then about $300,000 per year will be added to this total. Options need
to be considered that would not indirectly lower the health insurance reserve
for specific fund purposes, he stated.

To see more of The Edmond Sun or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.edmondsun.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Edmond Sun, Okla. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the
content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110617-EO-City-health-insurance-costs-rise-16.5-0617-20110617

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EO


                         Copyright 2011 The Edmond Sun


                              64 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 2, 1999, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Managed care means lower costs

BYLINE: Charles N. Kahn III

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 528 words


During the past few years, health insurers have done a good job
of holding down the cost of premiums, and the increased use of
managed care is partly responsible. Insurers also have saved money
with anti-fraud initiatives, which save $ 7.50 for every $ 1 spent.

In short, health insurers know that it costs a few dollars to
save many more. Consumers benefit directly from these savings.


On the other hand, we're frustrated that our administrative costs
are not as low as they could be. This is due largely to a phalanx
of state and federal regulations that raise insurers' compliance
costs, and in turn, boost consumers' health insurance premiums.

Here's an example: A study released by the Health Insurance Association
of America reveals that of the nation's 43.5 million uninsured
Americans, up to one out of four are uninsured due to the cost
of government mandates. Additionally, that same study reveals
that the number of state-imposed mandates increased at least 25-fold
between 1970 and 1996.

And the beat goes on.

Proposed regulations from the federal Department of Labor would
impose unrealistic claims processing timetables on health plans.
Under the proposed regulations, the current 15-day turnaround
requirement for health insurance claims would be shortened to
a five-day turnaround.

To comply, health plans would have to keep their claims processing
departments in operation virtually 24 hours a day, and staffing
costs would rise anywhere from 50% to 75% for some carriers.

Consumers are benefiting from lower airfares, lower long-distance
bills, and even lower rates for electricity because of deregulation.
However, the nation's private health insurance industry remains
heavily regulated. In fact, federal and state lawmakers are pushing
to impose even more health insurance regulation through
so-called patient protection legislation and various other proposals.

This rising tide of government regulation raises health insurers'
administrative costs. Higher administrative costs translate into
higher health insurance premiums. And those higher health insurance
premiums, in turn, mean that more people cannot afford to buy
health insurance.

Health insurers are working hard to lower administrative costs
by relying increasingly upon electronic claims filings. Electronic
claims processing will give consumers the kind of advantages and
convenience that they enjoy through the use of ATM machines and
on-line purchasing.

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
requires insurers to adopt electronic standards. However, it contains
loopholes that will slow progress by allowing doctors, hospitals
and others to opt out of these electronic standards.

We agree that consumers would benefit from lower administrative
costs, and we're working hard to make our operations more efficient
than they are now. But consumers need to remember that more regulation
means more administrative costs.

It's also important to remember that criticizing administrative
spending that saves money is a lot like not being able to see
the forest for the trees.

LOAD-DATE: March 02, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              65 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

How the health care law affects you

BYLINE: Community

SECTION: HEADLINES

LENGTH: 1067 words


On Wednesday, Gov. Mitt Romney signed a massive health care bill that will
require everyone to have health insurance by July 1, 2007.

Many of the particulars will be worked out in the coming months, but here is
what the bill as currently written means to you if you are:

* An individual or family earning up to three times the federal poverty level.
That's equivalent to as much as $29,400 for an individual, $39,600 for a family
of two, $49,800 for a family of three, or $60,000 for a family of four:

If you are not eligible for Medicaid, you will be able to receive Commonwealth
Care Health Insurance. The newly created Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector
will run the program.

You will pay no income tax on the money you use to buy health insurance, which
could be equal to a 30 percent discount on your monthly premiums.

You also will be eligible for state subsidies that will be set based on your
household income. But that subsidy hasn't been determined, nor has the total
cost of the health plan.

If you or a member of your family has a health insurance plan offered through an
employer but can't afford it, the employer's contribution to your health plan
will instead be given to the Connector. If you or a family member work multiple
jobs, multiple employers can pay toward the cost of your health insurance.

There will be no deductible for anyone between 100 percent and 300 percent of
the poverty line, but there will be a monthly premium.

For anyone under 100 percent of the poverty line -- which is $9,800 for an
individual -- there will be no deductible and no monthly premium.

* An individual making more than three times the poverty level but not receiving
health insurance from an employer. You will be able to buy health insurance
through the new Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector, and will be able to buy
the same plan as small businesses. Officials estimate that that could result in
a 24 percent reduction in the cost of premiums.

You will be able to pay for health insurance using pre-tax dollars -- the same
way you might contribute to a 401(k) plan or a Health Savings Account. That
could yield as much as a 30 percent discount in monthly premiums.

Both individual and family plans will be available.

* An individual earning more than three times the federal poverty level but who
doesn't want health insurance. You are the obvious loser in the health insurance
bill.

Everyone in Massachusetts must have health insurance by July 2007. Those who
don't will lose their state income-tax exemption in the first year, which could
cost you $189 as an individual or $378 as a couple. The second year, you will be
assessed half the annual cost of one of the new, low-cost health plans. That
could be from $1,200 to $5,000.

There are some possible outs, however. If your religious beliefs prohibit you
from seeking health care, you are exempt; likewise, if you can prove you have
enough money to pay for your own medical expenses without insurance, you are
exempt.

Also, if the state concludes that there are no affordable health plans, the
penalty will not be enforced.

* An individual between the ages of 19 and 26. If you do not participate in a
health insurance plan at work and are not covered by a parent's plan, you will
have the option of signing up for a special insurance program for people 19 to
26.

The program will be administered by the new Health Insurance Connector.

The plan has not been created, but the idea is that it will be a stripped-down
insurance offering that will be significantly cheaper than traditional health
insurance, in part because 19- to 26-year-olds are a healthier population. The
cost is still unknown.

Also, the new law allows people to stay on a parent's plan for up to two years
after they no longer qualify as a dependent. So if your mother or father has a
health insurance plan and is already paying a family rate, it would be cheaper
to stay on that plan as long as possible.

n A small-business owner with 11 or more employees. You will have to either
offer health insurance to your employees or pay a penalty of $295 a year for
each full-time employee. (This assumes that the Legislature overrides Romney's
veto of this provision as expected.)

If a single employee receives free care from a hospital three times, or if your
business has five or more instances of employees receiving free care in a year,
you will be hit with a "free rider" surcharge. The first $50,000 of treatment
per employee will be exempted. Beyond that sum, you could be forced to pay
between 10 percent and 100 percent of the cost of care.

Business owners will get some help, however.

The state is expanding its Insurance Partnership program, which helps small
businesses pay for health insurance.

And if you have 50 or fewer employees, you also will be able to use the state's
new Health Insurance Connector to buy insurance, which should give you easy
access to cost-effective plans and make them more attractive to your employees
by allowing them to spend pre-tax dollars.

* An individual who receives health insurance through an employer. Nothing in
the health care bill should have a direct effect on you. In theory, however, the
new law could lead to a reduction in the cost of health insurance.

The logic works like this: Insurance is designed to pool the money of everybody
-- the healthy and the sick. The sick are supported by the money of the healthy.

By requiring everyone to have insurance, the logic goes, low-risk people who
have been willing to go without insurance will jump into the risk pool,
contributing dollars rather than spending them.

At the same time, hospitals have been passing on the costs of treating the
uninsured to health insurance plans by building the expense into the rates they
charge insurers such as Blue Cross Blue Shield.

With everyone in the state required to have health insurance, that practice will
stop, lowering rates. If rates are lower, insurance premiums should go down.

* Anyone over the age of 65. You will not be directly affected by the law and
will continue to be covered by Medicare or private health insurance plans.

* A child. All children will be eligible for some form of health insurance.

Sources: Material was gathered through interviews with the Massachusetts
Hospital Association, Health Care for All and local health officials, and was
taken from the health care bill passed by the Legislature and from its summaries
of that law.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Camden Haven Courier

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday
                                Internet Edition

Easing the concern of health insurance

BYLINE: Laura Polson

LENGTH: 476 words


CHANGES are being considered that could save up to $800 million a year on health
insurance, according to Assistant Minister for Health and federal Member for
Lyne Dr David Gillespie.

Dr Gillespie agreed that the rising costs of health insurance is a source of
concern for many Australians.

He added the federal government was looking at ways to cut health insurance
costs with 'a review into prosthesis'.

He explained a committee was looking into the price of prosthesis, as there
appeared to be a 'arbitrage' between the market price and the goverment listed
price of the artificial body parts.

"If everyone was paying market price rather than what the government say the
price is, health insurers estimate they could save $800 million a year - and
that's a lot," Dr Gillespie said.

Dr Gillespie confirmed the rising cost of health insurance concerns the
goverment and that the 'value judgement issue is critical'.

"Health insurance costs are going up and there is a concern within the industry
and within government about increasing costs. The previous health minister
[Sussan Ley] had initiated reviews and ways to help. [Minister for Health] Greg
Hunt is now looking at these reviews."

Dr Gillespie said Ms Ley was considering gold, silver and bronze systems to make
it easier for people to understand and compare what they get.

"There are a lot of junk policies.'' he said.

"These are health insurance policies that exclude most of what people need to
have covered and just pay for easy things, rather than the expensive things."

Dr Gillespie said the 'existential problem' with health insurance is the
community rating which is challenged by low numbers.

"Around 35 years ago, everyone had health insurance and it was relatively cheap
because everyone had it. Now only 47 per cent of people have health insurance,"
he pointed out.

"Imagine how expensive your car insurance would be if only half the cars on the
road were insured and the ones that held insurance were the ones likely to
crash. That's sort of what's happening - if health insurance doesn't remain
affordable for the average family and the average worker, less people will hold
it, so the premium will have to go up more, which will make it less affordable."

Within weeks the Federal government will inform health insurers whether their
requested premium rate increases from April 1 2017 have been approved.

In an interview with Citi analyst Nigel Pittaway, the Herald Sun reports health
insurance premiums could grow this year by the smallest amount in a decade, as
the government tries to "score a win" for consumers.

The article stated former Minister for Health Sussan Ley last year made insurers
resubmit applications to raise rates where the increase was on average 5.59 per
cent.

"This was below the 6.18 per cent rise in 2015 but well above the current rate
of growth in wage," the report continued.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Municipal retirees' insurance cost taxpayers $16.5 million last year Municipal
retirees' insurance cost taxpayers $16.5 million last year Watchdog: Experts say
towns should save now for later pension obligations Watchdog: Experts say towns
should save now for later pension obligations

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2287 words


More than 2,100 former employees in 57 suburbs cost taxpayers almost $16.5
million in health insurance costs last year.

Experts expect that figure to rise steeply as more municipal employees head into
retirement before they are eligible for Medicare at age 65. But even then,
Medicare eligibility only reduces the municipal tax burden rather than putting
an end to it.

On average, the cost to taxpayers in those suburbs was about $7,700 per retiree
last year, according to a Daily Herald analysis of the towns' most recent
audits.

While providing access to health insurance for former workers is no surprise --
and is actually required by law -- few, if any, of the towns have funds set
aside to cover these rising costs.

"The people in the future are

having to fund this and they're not getting any government service for it
because the money is going to someone who is retired," said Sheila Weinberg,
founder and CEO of Truth in Accounting, a group pushing for more uniform,
understandable and accessible government financial reporting requirements.

A town's health insurance plan costs more if retirees are in it, municipal
officials said. Those additional costs aren't picked up by retirees, even if
they pay the entire premium.

"The insurance coverage for older, retired people is actually used more than the
younger population and thus costs more," said Arlington Heights Finance Director
Thomas Kuehne, whose village paid $562,603 last year to cover the additional
costs of having 218 retirees on the plan. "If our retired folks were not able to
participate, then theoretically the insurance plan would be less expensive."

While most municipal retirees are required to switch to Medicare for primary
coverage when they reach 65 years old, they are still allowed to keep paying for
secondary coverage through the town's health insurance plan.

Even in towns that had promised to pay for health care coverage long ago,
there's no financial safety net for current taxpayers. So in Wheeling -- which
offered free individual health insurance coverage to retired employees in the
1970s as long as they worked at least eight years -- taxpayers of today are
still subsidizing that promise. In 2013, that cost nearly $1 million for the 84
retired Wheeling workers receiving health insurance coverage through the
village.

"We have some (eligible) employees who have not yet retired," said Wheeling
Finance Director Michael Mondschain. "Not a lot, but a handful."

Wheeling stopped promising free health insurance coverage in retirement in 1981.

But some towns still offer the benefit to certain employee groups, like police
and firefighters.

At $6,116,378, Aurora had the largest "post-employment benefit" burden of the 57
suburbs analyzed. That's because its 475 participating retirees "contribute 20
percent to 29 percent" of the premium and "the city contributes the remainder,"
according to the city's 2013 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

Aurora also leads the suburban pack with more than $176 million in unfunded
obligations, or the estimated future expense of providing health insurance
coverage to all retirees and current employees.

Second is tiny Rosemont, which has more than $79 million in unfunded
obligations, mainly because of its large police and fire department staffs.

"Unfortunately, taxpayers have not been told how much these costs are," Weinberg
said.

Wheeling is carrying an unfunded liability of more than $19 million because of
the promises made to employees there more than 40 years ago.

Experts argue that municipalities should be saving now for future costs, like
pension obligations that are prefunded through investment and savings
initiatives.

"That's so the current generation is not over- or undercharged," said Alex
Brown, research manager at the National Association of State Retirement
Administrators.

The Governmental Accounting Standards Board is requiring more detailed reporting
of retiree health insurance costs of all taxing bodies. The potential future
obligations now being reported in audits paint a bleak picture.

Actuarial estimates show these towns have more than $434 million in future
health care cost obligations. That's up 20 percent from just five years ago.

Mondschain said saving for the future health insurance obligations would have
prevented spending elsewhere.

"The village would love to be in the position to fund this and set aside the
money for future costs, but with all the other budgetary issues, we just don't
have the money for it," he said.

Got a tip?

Contact Jake at jgriffin@dailyherald.com or (847) 427-4602.

See Watchdog on Page 7

More than 2,100 former employees in 57 suburbs cost taxpayers almost $16.5
million in health insurance costs last year.

Experts expect that figure to rise steeply as more municipal employees head into
retirement before they are eligible for Medicare at age 65. But even then,
Medicare eligibility only reduces the municipal tax burden rather than putting
an end to it.

On average, the cost to taxpayers in those suburbs was about $7,700 per retiree
last year, according to a Daily Herald analysis of the towns' most recent
audits.

While providing access to health insurance for former workers is no surprise --
and is actually required by law -- few, if any, of the towns have funds set
aside to cover these rising costs.

"The people in the future are

having to fund this and they're not getting any government service for it
because the money is going to someone who is retired," said Sheila Weinberg,
founder and CEO of Truth in Accounting, a group pushing for more uniform,
understandable and accessible government financial reporting requirements.

A town's health insurance plan costs more if retirees are in it, municipal
officials said. Those additional costs aren't picked up by retirees, even if
they pay the entire premium.

"The insurance coverage for older, retired people is actually used more than the
younger population and thus costs more," said Arlington Heights Finance Director
Thomas Kuehne, whose village paid $562,603 last year to cover the additional
costs of having 218 retirees on the plan. "If our retired folks were not able to
participate, then theoretically the insurance plan would be less expensive."

While most municipal retirees are required to switch to Medicare for primary
coverage when they reach 65 years old, they are still allowed to keep paying for
secondary coverage through the town's health insurance plan.

Even in towns that had promised to pay for health care coverage long ago,
there's no financial safety net for current taxpayers. So in Wheeling -- which
offered free individual health insurance coverage to retired employees in the
1970s as long as they worked at least eight years -- taxpayers of today are
still subsidizing that promise. In 2013, that cost nearly $1 million for the 84
retired Wheeling workers receiving health insurance coverage through the
village.

"We have some (eligible) employees who have not yet retired," said Wheeling
Finance Director Michael Mondschain. "Not a lot, but a handful."

Wheeling stopped promising free health insurance coverage in retirement in 1981.

But some towns still offer the benefit to certain employee groups, like police
and firefighters.

At $6,116,378, Aurora had the largest "post-employment benefit" burden of the 57
suburbs analyzed. That's because its 475 participating retirees "contribute 20
percent to 29 percent" of the premium and "the city contributes the remainder,"
according to the city's 2013 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

Aurora also leads the suburban pack with more than $176 million in unfunded
obligations, or the estimated future expense of providing health insurance
coverage to all retirees and current employees. Second is tiny Rosemont, which
has more than $79 million in unfunded obligations, mainly because of its large
police and fire department staffs.

"Unfortunately, taxpayers have not been told how much these costs are," Weinberg
said.

Wheeling is carrying an unfunded liability of more than $19 million because of
the promises made to employees there more than 40 years ago.

Experts argue that municipalities should be saving now for future costs, like
pension obligations that are prefunded through investment and savings
initiatives.

"That's so the current generation is not over- or undercharged," said Alex
Brown, research manager at the National Association of State Retirement
Administrators.

The Governmental Accounting Standards Board is requiring more detailed reporting
of retiree health insurance costs of all taxing bodies. The potential future
obligations now being reported in audits paint a bleak picture.

Actuarial estimates show these towns have more than $434 million in future
health care cost obligations. That's up 20 percent from just five years ago.

Mondschain said saving for the future health insurance obligations would have
prevented spending elsewhere.

"The village would love to be in the position to fund this and set aside the
money for future costs, but with all the other budgetary issues, we just don't
have the money for it," he said.

Got a tip?

Contact Jake at jgriffin@dailyherald.com or (847) 427-4602.

See Watchdog on Page 7

More than 2,100 former employees in 57 suburbs cost taxpayers almost $16.5
million in health insurance costs last year.

Experts expect that figure to rise steeply as more municipal employees head into
retirement before they are eligible for Medicare at age 65. But even then,
Medicare eligibility only reduces the municipal tax burden rather than putting
an end to it.

On average, the cost to taxpayers in those suburbs was about $7,700 per retiree
last year, according to a Daily Herald analysis of the towns' most recent
audits.

While providing access to health insurance for former workers is no surprise --
and is actually required by law -- few, if any, of the towns have funds set
aside to cover these rising costs.

"The people in the future are

having to fund this and they're not getting any government service for it
because the money is going to someone who is retired," said Sheila Weinberg,
founder and CEO of Truth in Accounting, a group pushing for more uniform,
understandable and accessible government financial reporting requirements.

A town's health insurance plan costs more if retirees are in it, municipal
officials said. Those additional costs aren't picked up by retirees, even if
they pay the entire premium.

"The insurance coverage for older, retired people is actually used more than the
younger population and thus costs more," said Arlington Heights Finance Director
Thomas Kuehne, whose village paid $562,603 last year to cover the additional
costs of having 218 retirees on the plan. "If our retired folks were not able to
participate, then theoretically the insurance plan would be less expensive."

While most municipal retirees are required to switch to Medicare for primary
coverage when they reach 65 years old, they are still allowed to keep paying for
secondary coverage through the town's health insurance plan.

Even in towns that had promised to pay for health care coverage long ago,
there's no financial safety net for current taxpayers. So in Wheeling -- which
offered free individual health insurance coverage to retired employees in the
1970s as long as they worked at least eight years -- taxpayers of today are
still subsidizing that promise. In 2013, that cost nearly $1 million for the 84
retired Wheeling workers receiving health insurance coverage through the
village.

"We have some (eligible) employees who have not yet retired," said Wheeling
Finance Director Michael Mondschain. "Not a lot, but a handful."

Wheeling stopped promising free health insurance coverage in retirement in 1981.

But some towns still offer the benefit to certain employee groups, like police
and firefighters.

At $6,116,378, Aurora had the largest "post-employment benefit" burden of the 57
suburbs analyzed. That's because its 475 participating retirees "contribute 20
percent to 29 percent" of the premium and "the city contributes the remainder,"
according to the city's 2013 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

Aurora also leads the suburban pack with more than $176 million in unfunded
obligations, or the estimated future expense of providing health insurance
coverage to all retirees and current employees.

Second is tiny Rosemont, which has more than $79 million in unfunded
obligations, mainly because of its large police and fire department staffs.

"Unfortunately, taxpayers have not been told how much these costs are," Weinberg
said.

Wheeling is carrying an unfunded liability of more than $19 million because of
the promises made to employees there more than 40 years ago.

Experts argue that municipalities should be saving now for future costs, like
pension obligations that are prefunded through investment and savings
initiatives.

"That's so the current generation is not over- or undercharged," said Alex
Brown, research manager at the National Association of State Retirement
Administrators.

The Governmental Accounting Standards Board is requiring more detailed reporting
of retiree health insurance costs of all taxing bodies. The potential future
obligations now being reported in audits paint a bleak picture.

Actuarial estimates show these towns have more than $434 million in future
health care cost obligations. That's up 20 percent from just five years ago.

Mondschain said saving for the future health insurance obligations would have
prevented spending elsewhere.

"The village would love to be in the position to fund this and set aside the
money for future costs, but with all the other budgetary issues, we just don't
have the money for it," he said.

Got a tip?

Contact Jake at jgriffin@dailyherald.com or (847) 427-4602.

Continued from Page 1

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              68 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 15, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UHI won't cut costs, says WHO;
UHI 'won't cut costs'

BYLINE: Eithne Shortall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 531 words


A REPORT from the World Health Organisation (WHO) has questioned the
government's plan to introduce universal health insurance (UHI). The researchers
found no evidence of any country in which a competitive insurance system had
kept costs under control. The government anticipates that if every citizen was
forced to have health insurance, providers would compete against each other,
thus driving down prices.

However, the WHO report found that "the experience of insurer competition in
Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland suggests that such systems have not
been effective in healthcare cost control".

The report stated it was "questionable whether a competitive insurance system
will help to improve efficiency and control costs".

The Programme for Government contains plans for universal health insurance, a
system whereby everyone in Ireland must obtain statutory benefits from a health
insurer of their choice. UHI is intended to ensure access to healthcare based on
"need, not income", with the government paying for the health insurance of
medical-card holders and supplementing insurance for lower-income earners.

Anne Nolan, the research Continued on page 2 uu Continued from page 1 director
of the Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing, was one of four academics
commissioned by WHO to study the effect of the financial crisis on the Irish
health system. Nolan said they had not come across any country where competing
insurers led to lower health-insurance costs.

"There's lots of international literature that shows competing insurers [are]
not usually an effective mechanism for reducing costs," she said. "A lot of it
is to do with the minimum number of insured people that an insurer needs to
drive these efficiencies.

"The Netherlands has a population of 16m and four competing insurers. That
suggests the minimum population size [needed] is about 4m people per insurer.
Ireland only has a population of about 4.5m. Experience with our current private
health-insurance market would suggest cost increases year on year, so it's
debatable whether with the proposed system you would get those efficiencies with
competing insurers."

Nolan said health insurance providers could never have full information about
those they are insuring, and that huge administrative costs are associated with
it.

The Department of Health said a "major costing exercise" is under way to develop
a "road map" for UHI. "This involves the department, the ESRI, the Health
Insurance Authority and the HSE," it said. "The final results will be key in
determining the nature of a UHI system for Ireland, as part of a broader system
of universal health care." ESRI's cost analysis of UHI will be available before
the summer.

The 2011 Programme for Government contained plans for a "universal, single-tier
health service, which guarantees access to medical care based on need, not
income". Last April the Department of Health outlined plans for UHI that would
make the health system fairer.

UHI was expected to be introduced by 2019, but Leo Varadkar, who took over at
health minister last July, said this was "too ambitious". He plans to present a
revised UHI roadmap to the government before its summer break.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                              June 10, 2005 Friday

Chamber's insurance plan could lower costs

BYLINE: AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 576 words


Health insurance might be within the financial reach of more Central Texas small
businesses thanks to an initiative by the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce.

We know that health insurance is prohibitively expensive for many employers that
don't have enough workers to share costs or to spread risk. One rule of
insurance is: the greater the risk, the higher the cost. So providing health
coverage for a few, older employees carries a greater risk -- and price tag --
than covering a lot of employees of varying ages.

Under the Austin chamber initiative, companies with two to 50 employees will be
able to join pools that will seek bids for coverage as if they were a single
company, former mayor and chamber Chairman Kirk Watson told the
American-Statesman this week. That essentially permits a group of small
businesses to act as one larger company in purchasing employee health insurance.
If it works, it will lower costs for all of those in the pool.

This certainly is a good effort by the private sector. But sky-rocketing health
care costs are squeezing the budgets of employers, large and small.

It's an issue that can't be solved by the private sector alone. In Texas, 66
percent of uninsured people have jobs. In all, about one in five Texans don't
have health insurance. Those numbers are only expected to grow if left
unchecked. What does it mean to the rest of us that millions don't have health
insurance?

The answer is in your wallet. People who are insured subsidize those who aren't.
The cost of uninsured health care drives up the costs of premiums, according to
a new survey by Families USA, a consumer advocacy group based in Washington,
D.C. Its survey found that Texas was among six states whose premiums had
increased at least $1,500 this year because of unpaid costs of the uninsured:

* In 2005, health insurance premiums in Texas for a family with private,
employer-sponsored coverage are $1,551 higher because of the unpaid cost of
health care for the uninsured. Premiums for individual health insurance coverage
in Texas are $550 higher this year.

* By 2010, health insurance premiums for families with private,
employer-sponsored coverage will be $2,786 higher because of unpaid costs for
the uninsured. Premiums for individuals will be $922 higher by that time.

Those figures reflect the huge costs of health care for uninsured Texans, which
totaled about $4.6 billion in 2005, according to Families USA. That means
someone got sick, went to a doctor or emergency room, and either paid only a
portion of the bill or didn't pay at all. To cover their costs, hospitals and
private health care providers raised their prices on insurance companies, which
in turn, passed those costs on to consumers.

We certainly urge small companies to take advantage of the Austin chamber
program. But the escalating costs of health care also require the attention and
resources of the state and federal governments.

At the very least, Congress shouldn't cut programs such as Medicaid that cover
the poor, and Texas should expand its Children's Health Insurance Program, which
covers children of working families who can't afford health insurance.

(from box)

Uninsured Texans

Families USA, a national health care advocacy organization, projects Texas to
have more uninsured people each year.

Year Total population Number of uninsured Percent uninsured

2005 22,408,000 4,785,000 21.4 percent

2010 23,424,000 5,280,000 22.5 percent

Source: Families USA

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                              70 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday

Toward saner and more just health care

BYLINE: Claire Levy

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 953 words


Our health insurance system is broken. The question before the people of
Colorado is how to fix it.

The legislature created a commission in 2006 to solicit and evaluate proposals
to reform Colorado's health-care and health-insurance system. You can review the
submittals at www.colorado.gov/208commission. The legislature is expected to
enact major health-care reform legislation 2008.

Here are some of the factors we must keep in mind as we consider
health-insurance reform. First, with 770,000 Coloradans uninsured, a similar
number underinsured, and many more financially strained by their current health
insurance costs, radical changes are necessary. The number of people who receive
health insurance benefits from their employer continues to decrease, throwing an
increasing number of people into the prohibitively expensive individual market,
or into the ranks of the uninsured.

The health-care costs of the 770,000 who are currently uninsured don't just go
away. People get sick even if they have no insurance. Uncollectible bills are
recouped by adding an average of $930 to the annual premium of those who have
health insurance.

Our health-care dollars must go farther by putting more of what we spend into
providing care. The United States spends approximately 16 percent of its gross
domestic product on health care. Other industrialized western nations spend far
less, yet our health indicators lag behind theirs. As much as 20 percent to 25
percent goes to insurance company overhead, and an additional 12 percent is
spent by doctors and hospitals to process insurance papers and sort out what
benefits are available under the many different plans. As much as one-third of
the premium dollars spent in the private sector do not go towards health care.

Our current system burdens businesses in the private sector with costs that are
unrelated to the goods and services they provide. Employers who provide health
insurance spend approximately $8,500 per employee for family coverage, while the
employee spends $3,000. Employers incur administrative costs in the form $57 per
employee for staff to analyze benefit plans and administer their benefits
packages. The cost to employers of providing health insurance currently operates
as an 8-percent payroll tax. Companies that do provide health insurance are at a
competitive disadvantage as compared to those that do not. It also places
American companies at a competitive disadvantage compared to the other major
industrialized nations.

Health insurance can be provided without devoting dollars to activities whose
purpose is to maximize profit rather than make people healthy. The Medicare
system spends 3.10 percent of its costs on administrative expenses. Non-profit
Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies spend 16.30 percent on administrative
expenses. Twenty to twenty-five percent of what commercial carriers collect in
premiums is spent on advertising, screening out unhealthy applicants, executive
compensation, shareholder profit and paying a staff whose job is to second-guess
doctors and deny benefits. This spending saves money for the health-insurance
company and increases profit. But the cost of health care for those who are
denied coverage is shifted to the taxpaying public or to the premiums of those
who have coverage.

An employer-based benefits system disrupts the labor market and hampers
competition. Employees who have health insurance benefits are reluctant to
change jobs for fear of losing their coverage or seeing an increase in cost.
Health-insurance considerations may prevent them from fully utilizing their
potential in a different job, and unproductive employees stay on the payroll
because of medical issues. Employers may not hire the best candidate for the job
due to concerns about increased health-insurance costs, or may not expand
because of the cost of additional benefits. Companies that cannot afford to
provide insurance may lose out on the most experienced, talented employees. In a
myriad of ways, health insurance drives employment and business decisions.

So what is to be done? We must begin with the premise that health care is a
basic human right. We implicitly acknowledge this already by the substantial
government-funded programs that provide health care to children, the elderly,
poor and disabled. Hospitals must provide emergency treatment to anyone who
needs it. Our laws, policies and ethics require treatment, yet our health-care
financing system is not built to deliver it.

We must decouple employment and health insurance. Whether one is self-employed
or works part time, whether one's employer chooses to offer health insurance,
and what insurance plans one's employer selects should not determine whether a
person can afford health care. Employers should be focused on providing goods
and services.

Our system must put health-care dollars into health care and allow doctors to
focus on medicine. Reducing administration costs to the 16 percent spent by
non-profit insurance companies would save $982 per person. Reducing these costs
to the level of Medicare or the Veterans Administration would save still more.
Eliminating the staff hospitals and physicians dedicate to claims administration
would free up even more dollars. The money saved on administration and profit
could cover all of the uninsured and enhance the coverage provided by basic
plans.

Last, we must acknowledge that governments, employers and individuals already
spend a substantial sum of money on health care. If we spend that money
according to a broad comprehensive plan instead of filling gaps, we can achieve
the goal of universal health insurance.

Claire Levy, a Democrat, is the legislative representative for state House
District 13.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times (Munster, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 28, 2013 Saturday

Health insurance switch saves Portage $1 million

BYLINE: Joyce Russell, The Times, Munster, Ind.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 388 words


Dec. 28--PORTAGE -- The city has been battling health insurance costs for years.

The latest move, however, could save the city upwards of $1 million in 2014.

When the remaining bargaining contracts are approved, all city employees will
receive their health insurance through Operating Engineers 150 Health and
Welfare Fund.

Until now, several providers have covered city employees and the city has been
self insured for excessive health care claims. Some employee groups were paying
premiums, while others were not.

"Ultimately 150 made us an offer the city can't refuse," said Clerk-Treasurer
Chris Stidham.

Stidham said health insurance through Local 150's fund will cost the city $1.4
million less for active employees in 2014.

Stidham said they went back to their present health insurance administrators and
asked them to run different scenarios. While they could find lower cost
insurance, the cost to the city was still higher than the plan offered by Local
150's fund.

Their plan, however, doesn't cover retirees. The city approved hiring Miller
Financial Group to work with non-union retirees and recently approved funding
those retirees health insurance. The city will pay 75 percent of the retired
employees health insurance premiums if they are not working and 50 percent if
they are working for a company which provides health insurance.

The cost for retiree insurance to the city will be about $350,000 in 2014, said
Stidham.

In addition, employees will no longer have to pay premiums for health or dental
insurance. That, said Stidham, will be like giving employees now paying premiums
a $50 to $100 boost on their pay checks each month.

Stidham also believes the Local 150 insurance will provide "richer benefits" for
city workers than their present coverage.

For all but the street and sanitation department employees, the city will pay
monthly premiums of $600 for a single insured and $1,200 for a family. Street
and sanitation employee premiums are a bit higher, at $710 for a single and
$1,735 for a family, because they are included in an older plan that does
continue to cover retirees from that department.

Those premiums will increase by 3 percent in 2015 and no more than 10 percent in
2016.

___ (c)2013 The Times (Munster, Ind.) Visit The Times (Munster, Ind.) at
www.nwitimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131228-MU-Health-insurance-switch-saves-Portage-1-million-20131228

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MU


                            Copyright 2013 The Times


                              72 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Idaho Business Review

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

What the American Health Care Act could mean for Idaho

BYLINE: Tom Mortell

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 1707  words


On May 4, the U.S. House of Representatives accomplished the first step in
repealing and replacing the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA,
by passing the American Health Care Act, or AHCA.

Strongly supported by House leadership and President Trump, the AHCA passed with
one vote to spare, 217-214.   It remains to be seen what the U.S. Senate will do
with the AHCA.   With a very narrow Republican majority, the table is set for a
contentious fight in the Senate between the majority and minority parties, as
well as among the various factions of the majority party.

The ACA, commonly referred to as Obamacare, was passed in 2010 by the narrowest
of margins in what was then a House, Senate and White House all controlled by
Democrats.   For good and bad, the ACA has had a major impact on Idaho's
businesses, especially Idaho's health care and health insurance industries.

A basic requirement of the ACA was that health insurance policies meet certain
minimum coverage standards and not exclude enrollment based on pre-existing
conditions.   However, the primary focus of the ACA was to reduce the number of
individuals without health insurance.   In theory, reducing the number of
individuals without insurance would help contain health care costs and the costs
of health insurance.   Because more than 800,000 individuals in Idaho receive
health insurance through their employer's health plans, Idaho's business
community certainly has a significant stake in the effort to contain the cost of
health care and health insurance.

The ACA included several requirements which attempted to provide insurance
coverage for the millions of individuals in the United States who, at the time,
had no health insurance.   The ACA includes the so-called "individual mandate"
which requires individuals to have qualifying health insurance or pay a tax
penalty equal to the greater of $695 per year, indexed for inflation, or 2.5
percent of household income.   The intent of the individual mandate was to force
healthy individuals to purchase insurance thereby expanding the pool of covered
individuals and providing premium income to pay the health expenses for less
healthy individuals.

The ACA also requires employers of 50 or more employees to provide insurance to
full-time employees working more than 30 hours per week.   An employer who fails
to do so faces stiff tax penalties.   Again, the intent of requiring all
employers to provide health insurance was to expand the pool of healthy covered
individuals to offset the costs of providing coverage to sicker individuals.

In addition to requiring employers to provide health insurance to their
full-time employees, the ACA also sought to provide insurance to those
individuals and families who do not have access to health insurance through an
employer.   This group of mostly low-income individuals includes those who are
employed by small employers, those not employed, and those who may be working in
part-time or multiple part-time jobs.   Given the high cost of health insurance
in today's world, this group of individuals and families are, unfortunately,
simply never going to be able to afford health insurance.   Unfortunately, under
the ACA, the premiums charged to these individuals for health insurance has
dramatically increased.

As originally passed, the ACA provided two pathways to provide health insurance
for low-income individuals and families who did not have health coverage through
an employer.   First, the ACA established health insurance exchanges where
subsidized health insurance coverage could be obtained by those making between
100 percent of the federal poverty level (or $24,250) and those earning up to
400 percent of the federal poverty level (or $97,000).

Second, the ACA allowed states to expand their Medicaid programs to provide
health care coverage to those individuals and families who make less than 138
percent of the federal poverty level ($33,465 for a family of four).   For
states that expanded their Medicaid programs, the ACA required the federal
government to pay 90 percent of the long-term costs associated with that
expansion, with states paying 10 percent of those costs.

Idaho partially implemented the ACA by enacting legislation in 2013 that
established Idaho's health insurance exchange, now known as "Your Health Idaho.
"  Idaho's legislature repeatedly declined to expand Idaho's Medicaid program to
provide basic health coverage for the 78,000 residents of Idaho who live below
100 percent of the federal poverty level and do not have health care coverage.

With that background in mind, the question becomes what effect would a repeal of
the ACA have on Idaho?  According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, the percentage of Idaho residents without insurance dropped from 17.7
percent in 2010 to 11 percent in 2015, as an additional 109,000 Idahoans
obtained coverage as a result of the ACA.   The costs of providing care to the
indigent through the counties and the State's Catastrophic Health Care Fund, or
CAT Fund, dropped from $55 million in 2012 to less than $34 million in 2016.
The CAT Fund's portion of those costs has dropped from $38.6 million in 2012 to
$16.6 million in 2016.

As of March 2017, YHI has helped 105,977 residents of Idaho obtain health
insurance, with 81,722 of those plan enrollees receiving advance premium tax
credits, or APTC, to help pay for coverage under the ACA.   The average monthly
subsidy for these marketplace enrollees is $270.

Idaho's low income residents receive about $265 million each year from the
federal government to help pay for their health insurance premiums.   The ACA
also provided cost-sharing subsidies which reduced deductibles, co-pays, and
out-of-pocket limits for individuals in the range of 100 percent to 250 percent
of the federal poverty level.   Cost-sharing subsidies dramatically reduced the
average deductible, co-pays and out of pocket limits for the poorest of those
eligible for subsidized coverage on the exchange.

If the AHCA - now passed by the U.S. House of Representatives - becomes law, it
will eliminate or, at a minimum, change some aspects of the ACA that have helped
lower the number of individuals and families without health insurance in Idaho.

  According to initial estimates by the Congressional Budget Office, the net
effect of these changes will lead to a loss of health insurance for 24 million
Americans.

The AHCA eliminates the individual mandate.   The AHCA eliminates the ACA's
prohibition of allowing insurance companies to "rate" their policies based on
age.   This change will allow insurance companies to charge premiums based on
age, certainly leading to premium increases for older individuals.   Also, under
the AHCA and beginning in 2020, the ACA's tax subsidies for low income
individuals to purchase health insurance policies will be replaced with income
tax credits based on age.

Under those provisions, individuals up to age 29 will receive tax credits of
$2,000 per year whereas individuals age 60 and over will receive $4,000 per
year.   Although higher tax subsidies will be available to older individuals,
the expected increase in insurance premiums for these individuals will likely
lead to net premium increases.   The AHCA also eliminates the cost-sharing
subsidies which will lead to an increase in deductibles, co-pays and
out-of-pocket limits to low income individuals.

Overall, it remains to be seen what effect a restructured system of tax
subsidies will have on Idaho's uninsured.

On the employer side, the AHCA eliminates the employer penalties for not
providing health insurance to employees, a fact that will certainly lead to
fewer employers providing insurance.   With fewer insured individuals, Idaho's
CAT Fund expenditures and the amounts paid by Idaho's counties for indigent care
are likely to increase.

Each year at renewal time, Idaho's businesses face the ever-increasing costs of
providing health insurance for their employees.   However, many businesses fail
to realize that a portion of each health insurance premium reflects the costs
associated with health care provided to Idaho residents who have no insurance.
Idaho's health care providers write off millions of dollars of uncompensated
care each year for services provided to patients with no insurance.   Those very
real costs are then passed on to the health insurance companies who have no
choice but to pass these costs on to their customers.

It's fair to say that the enactment of the AHCA would likely lead to more
Idahoans again being uninsured.   Unfortunately, these uninsured individuals
will delay receiving health care until their condition becomes acute.   What
could have been managed through blood pressure and cholesterol medication is now
a serious heart condition requiring surgery.   Cancer which would have been
diagnosed in a routine office visit instead will be diagnosed at an advanced
stage.

These uninsured individuals will resort to receiving care at the emergency room,
where the cost is the highest and where they will not be turned away based on
their inability to pay.   The high cost of emergency care, coupled with the more
extensive care that is often needed, leads to hospital and physician bills that
are simply unaffordable to those without insurance.   As a result, the patient
ends up in bankruptcy court and/or these costs are written off as uncollectible
by hospitals and physicians.

To stay in business, these same hospitals and physicians seek additional higher
reimbursement rates from private insurance companies who provide coverage to
your company and your employees.   This is an unsustainable cycle.

Whether the AHCA will become law remains to be seen.   Unfortunately, it looks
like the AHCA is a replacement solution that would lead to a significant
increase in the number of individuals without health insurance.
Unfortunately, Idaho's businesses simply cannot afford a major step backwards
when it comes to subsidizing the health care costs incurred by Idaho's
uninsured.

Tom Mortell is a partner at Hawley Troxell and is chairman of the firm's health
law group.

Click here for more from this resource.

Copyright © 2017 BridgeTower Media.  All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Metropolitan Corporate Counsel

                                   April 2006
                               Northeast Edition

Challenges To In-House Counsel From Benefit Plans: Practical Considerations

BYLINE: Robert H. LouisSaul Ewing LLP.

Robert H. (Bob) Louis is a Partner in and Co-Chair of Saul Ewing's Personal
Wealth, Estates and Trusts Department. In his practice, Mr. Louis works on
various aspects of the process of acquiring, preserving and passing on the
wealth of individual clients and their businesses. He specializes in areas such
as executive compensation, retirement plans, employee benefits, and tax and
estate planning for these kinds of benefits.

SECTION: Pg. 25 Vol. 14 No. 4

LENGTH: 1942 words



HIGHLIGHT: Please email the author at rlouis@saul.com with questions about this
article.


The world of employee benefit plans is full of challenges and opportunities for
in-house counsel. There are several reasons, both of "macro" and "micro" types,
for this situation:

Employee benefits of certain categories are expected: health insurance at least;
perhaps also, life and disability insurance. But health insurance in particular
has become a significant and growing expense to businesses.

Retirement plans are valuable to employees at many levels of a business. ERISA,
the federal law relating to retirement plans, is amended on a regular basis, and
proposals for further amendments are made almost weekly. As members of the baby
boom generation approach the age of retirement, there will be more pressure on
employers to increase retirement income. There are also questions about
appropriate costs associated with retirement plans.

Nonqualified deferred compensation has recently undergone a dramatic change.
This category of employee benefits comes in many forms, from stock appreciation
rights to various forms of incentive compensation. Until recently, there was
little regulation and much discretion in the design of these programs. Now, a
new world of federal regulations has begun.

Let's examine each of these categories in turn, to see what specific challenges
have been addressed recently and, if not fully met, how counsel have dealt with
them.

Health, Disability And Life Insurance

Of these three benefits, health insurance will be the most expensive and subject
to the greatest change. The cost of such insurance has risen dramatically in the
past few years, and it appears that increases will continue.

Most employers believe that they must continue to offer health insurance in some
form, since a national health insurance is unlikely in the next few years, and
the option of forcing employees to use governmental assistance programs is
distasteful to most employers. Some employers have responded to these increases
by "asking" employees to make a contribution to the cost of such coverage. That
contribution might be in the form of payment of a share of the monthly premium.
Another method of dealing with cost is to add or increase co-pays and
deductibles. What is the difference? Apparently, asking employees to pay a sort
of usage fee reduces the use of health insurance and can hold down insurance
cost increases. Employers usually have the option of changing co-pays and
deductibles each year, and of asking their carrier or their health insurance
consultant the effect of such changes on the premium cost. Co-pays and
deductibles can encourage employees to be careful consumers of health benefits,
but there is a risk of employees not getting health care that they really need,
and a risk of creating bad feelings. Clearly some judgment and "packaging" is
needed to achieve the best result. The use of health insurance consultants, as
compared to dealing directly with insurers, often makes the process of choosing
a health plan provider and the terms of the plan more effective. The process of
choosing health insurance providers and options has become too complicated for
individual employers to make the necessary choices without third party guidance.

Whatever choice is made with respect to health insurance cannot be considered a
"final" choice. A review of health insurance arrangements will be necessary each
year. Competitive changes in the market, as new providers enter and existing
providers adjust to competitive pressures, will change the cost structure of
health insurance.

Other changes will occur. Many employers will opt for some form of
self-insurance. For most employers, this will be new territory. They are
accustomed to receiving a notice from their health insurers stating what health
insurance will cost on a fully-insured basis. With a self-insurance program,
employers assume part of the risk of health insurance. By assuming that risk in
a carefully planned way, employers might be able to realize substantial savings
over a fully-insured plan. Many employers have already begun to explore the
benefits of self-insurance, especially those with large numbers of employees.
The challenge to smaller employers will be to determine if self-insurance can be
used with a smaller group of employees, such as 500-1,000. One of the key
factors in making such a decision will be past experience in health insurance
claims. It will be vitally important that employers obtain access to claims
experience. Not every health insurer has been willing to release such
information to smaller groups, perhaps for competitive reasons, and it is here
that employers must be insistent.

Another method of financing health insurance costs has been suggested recently:
the use of pre-funding through third party financial sources. An employer may
pay several years of health insurance costs in advance, by borrowing the
necessary funds. Why would an employer do so? Only if it reduced costs, of
course. How would such a financing reduce costs? First, because the insurer
received all of its charges up front and had a guarantee that the employer would
stay with it for some period of time, such as three years, it would be likely to
reduce its costs. Second, the consultants involved in this type of financing
claim greater knowledge of health insurance economics and, consequently, a
greater ability to understand what health insurers might give up in exchange for
certainty. This type of financing has been used in the past by public employers
and is now being offered to private employers. This is merely one technique
being suggested as a means of controlling the almost uncontrollable rise in
health insurance costs. More techniques are undoubtedly to come, and it will be
the task of counsel to ensure that employers are aware of all they can do to
control cost and risk.

Retirement Plan Issues

In a similar way, the world of retirement plans is undergoing a dramatic change:

There is increasing discussion of the need to save more for retirement, and
employees will be looking to employers to help them achieve that goal. In recent
years, the "standard" type of plan has been the 401(k), but there is a limit to
how much can be saved through a 401(k) plan. In earlier years, many employers
sponsored defined benefit pension plans, which, at least for older employees,
could result in a greater accumulation of benefits than was possible in defined
contribution plans, such as 401(k) plans. But defined benefit plans can develop
large unfunded liabilities, which in recent years have begun migrating to the
liabilities section of the employer's balance sheet, as a result of changes in
accounting standards. More recently, a shift has begun from defined benefit
pension plans to cash balance plans. Despite some uncertainty as to whether
these plans violated age discrimination laws, they now seem well established and
capable of assisting employers in controlling future costs.

Much attention has been devoted in recent times to investments in retirement
plans. The recent financial inquiries into costs in the insurance and securities
industries are spreading to retirement plan assets, and litigation is sure to
follow. What does it cost to invest in retirement plan assets and to administer
retirement plans? This inquiry has been generally overlooked, with the result
that financial professionals and administrators have sometimes been compensated
far beyond the value of their services. If so, plan participants are not being
treated fairly, and have a right to complain. The basis of this problem is the
revenue sharing that is paid for mutual funds and others. In effect, revenue is
paid to someone because the plan's assets are invested in the mutual funds. The
revenue is being "earned" by the participants' contributions, but they often do
not enjoy any portion of these revenues.

The appropriate inquiry for in-house counsel is what services are being provided
to the retirement plan, what they should reasonably cost, and what service
providers are earning. If there is a difference between the last two numbers,
perhaps there should not be. As with health insurance, this inquiry generally
cannot be made without expert assistance but, with expert assistance, counsel
can ensure that participants in retirement plans are getting the greatest
benefits from their contributions and can avoid claims that employers have
failed to carry out their responsibilities for stewardship of retirement plans.

Nonqualified Deferred Compensation

Deferred compensation can include any arrangement by which a right to
compensation payments is earned at one period but paid in another. Retirement
plans are a form of deferred compensation under that inclusive definition.
Nonqualified deferred compensation refers to arrangements that do not satisfy
the detailed rules of the Internal Revenue Code for qualified status, from which
follows the various tax benefits of qualified retirement plans. For many years,
nonqualified deferred compensation was subject to very little regulation. A wide
range of types of nonqualified deferred compensation had developed, including
stock appreciation rights, phantom stock plans, supplemental executive
retirement plans, 401(k) mirror plans, management incentive plans and many
others. Nonqualified deferred compensation plans could be tailored to specific
circumstances and could cover select groups of employees, which made up for the
loss of some of the favorable tax consequences of qualified plans.

This form of benefit planning changed substantially with the enactment of new
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, as part of the American Jobs Creation
Act in 2004. That new law put significant restrictions on the form that
nonqualified deferred compensation might take. Limitations were placed on:

when compensation could be deferred

when distributions of deferred compensation could be made

when acceleration of payment was permissible

when further deferral of payment was permissible

certain types of funding techniques

In addition, and of some significance, the providers of deferred compensation
plans will now have to report the amount deferred on Form W-2, even if that
amount is not currently taxable. For the first time, the Internal Revenue
Service will have information about how much income that would otherwise be
taxable is being deferred. Many practitioners believe that collecting that
information is a step toward further regulation and limitations on deferred
compensation.

What steps should counsel take in response to this change in law? First, they
need to acquire some basic knowledge of the changes. Armed with that knowledge,
and with the assistance of outside counsel, they should gather information about
the variety of nonqualified deferred compensation plans currently in effect.
This fact-gathering process might identify issues unrelated to the new law, such
as a failure to have adequate documentation and records of such plans. In
addition, this inquiry will identify potential problems of compliance with the
new law. Following that, counsel can participate in the decision how to revise
such plans. Overall, a new level of awareness will be required, and an ongoing
discussion as to the proper management of nonqualified deferred compensation
plans.

The world of employee benefits is one of the most diverse and fast-changing
areas of business management. Achieving the best results for employers requires
much attention and outside assistance, but doing so can have significant
financial benefits to employers and employees.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Metropolitan Corporate Counsel
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                           February 22, 2005 Tuesday

Area towns expecting double-digit health insurance premium increases

BYLINE: Emily Young

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 1220 words


Townsend Town Administrator Greg Barnes expects a 29.3 percent increase to
health insurance premiums in the next fiscal year, making it difficult for the
town to balance a level-funded budget.

"I mean, I fell off my chair when I heard it," Barnes said. "This is a problem
throughout the whole state. The benefit costs are, frankly, out of control.
You'll find community after community struggling financially, and a significant
reason is due to the cost of benefits."

Townsend budgeted $455,890 for health insurance in fiscal 2005. A 29.3 percent
increase would bring the town's costs to $589,465.

While Barnes hopes to present a level-funded budget to voters in May, he already
foresees a $650,000 structural deficit.

Ann Ludlow, a health insurance professional, believes insurance rates for
municipalities across the state will increase in fiscal 2006 between 10 and 20
percent.

Ludlow also doesn't see the increase in health insurance costs slowing down any
time soon.

"I would like to say that I do, but I don't see any factors coming into play
that would lower costs," Ludlow said Thursday. "Health insurance costs don't
tend to go down, they only tend to go up. The rate of increase may change over
time, but it probably won't slow down."

Officials in Ashby are expecting an 12.6 percent increase in health insurance
costs in the next fiscal year, while those in Ashburnham are budgeting for a 10
percent increase.

Lunenburg was told a few weeks ago to expect a 20 percent increase in its health
insurance cost, bringing the total price tag to $3.18 million, Town Accountant
Karen Brochu said Wednesday.

The town's insurance consultant told Brochu Tuesday the figure could be closer
to a 15 percent increase, bringing Lunenburg's health insurance costs to $3.06
million, she continued.

Shirley Treasurer Kevin Johnston said his town is budgeting for health insurance
costs to increase by 10 percent in fiscal 2006.

Shirley's operating budget in fiscal 2005 is $12.1 million; the town budgeted
$1.05 million for health insurance this year, Shirley Town Administrator Kyle
Keady said.

"It's been a huge issue for probably over the past seven or eight years,"
Johnston said. "The bottom line is it's a benefit we have to provide. The best
we can do is manage our costs. A million dollars is a lot of money for a small
town."

It's difficult to make direct comparisons between the health insurance policies
of neighboring communities, because there are numerous factors that affect the
bottom line, said Ludlow, who is manager for the Massachusetts Interlocal
Insurance Association Benefits Trust.

For example, both Lunenburg and Shirley pay for the health insurance of school
employees; however, Townsend, Westminster, and Lancaster are all members of
regional school districts that incorporate health insurance costs into the
school budgets.

Contribution rates also vary from town to town. For example, Westminster
contributes 75 percent to employee health benefits, while Lancaster contributes
90 percent.

Some towns, like Westminster and Lunenburg, offer health insurance to retired
employees, while other towns, like Townsend, do not.

Some towns and school districts have recently changed insurance carriers to
offset rising costs.

The North Middlesex Regional School District, which has students from Ashby,
Pepperell and Townsend, switched to Minuteman Nashoba Heath Group last year.

The group collaborative pulls together roughly 15 communities to spread out the
associated costs, which results in annual increases that are uniform for all
participating communities, said Gerald Martin, business manager for the North
Middlesex district.

The school district still expects an 8 or 9 percent increase in health insurance
costs in fiscal 2006 -- far lower than in previous years. Martin said the
district's insurance costs were hovering around 22 percent in the last year.

Other districts chose to stick with their current providers.

The Ashburnham-Westminster School District renewed its insurance policy with
Blue Cross/Blue Shield in January, said teacher Dave Uminski, who sits on the
district's Insurance Advisory Committee.

"We hired a consultant this year, who issued [request for proposals] to a number
of different insurance carriers and Blue Cross/Blue Shield was the most
competitive. We had a single-digit increase this year. In the past two, three
years we've had double-digit increases," Uminski said.

Barnes said he is exploring all options to reduce next fiscal year's potential
costs.

"I think the town has to explore all options. It has to constantly review the
market," Barnes said. "There are ways of saving in addition to just affecting
[town and employee] contribution levels. There's the plans themselves, co-pays
for doctor's visits, but all that has to be bargained. [Massachusetts law] makes
change difficult. You'd need complete agreement with all collective bargaining
units," Barnes said.

Shirley changed its employees co-pays for doctor visits from $5 to $15 within
the last two years, Johnston said.

Lunenburg Selectman Daniel Cronin said a change in the town's contribution rates
is likely.

"I think that the Board of Selectmen is going to be unanimous that it should go
to 75 percent [contribution], because of the anticipated 20 percent increase.
Even if it doesn't increase by 20 percent, we have to respect what the voters
said," Cronin said Wednesday.

At Town Election in May, 1499 Lunenburg residents voted in favor of a
non-binding question that asked town employees to increase their health
insurance contribution from 10 percent to 25 percent. While 154 residents left
the question blank, 943 residents voted against the question, according to town
records.

Should the Lunenburg selectmen vote to change the contribution ratio, they will
have to contend with 13 bargaining groups and unions.

Lunenburg school secretary Dawn de Freitas said it would be a "hardship" if the
town reduced its contribution to her family's health insurance.

"Last year they cut my part-time assistant. I'm now doing the job of two people,
and to reduce the town's portion [of her health insurance costs] is asking a
little much," said de Freitas, who is the president of the seven-member school
secretary collective bargaining group.

De Freitas didn't think the town should reduce its contribution to all employee
health benefits to help offset skyrocketing premiums. But she didn't have any
other ideas of how to offset a looming budget deficit in fiscal 2006.

"I don't think we can really afford to lose more people, but I don't think that
reducing our insurance is the answer. [Town officials] need to look somewhere
else -- I don't know where," de Freitas said.

Barnes pointed out that if health insurance costs aren't controlled, employees
could lose elsewhere.

"The one thing I'd like to stress is there is a limited pool of money. If money
goes into health care, it cannot go elsewhere," Barnes said. "Ultimately, over
time, it all evens out."

Barnes added, "A town has to make choices by looking at the long-term trend
line. If there's an increased amount of money thrown into benefits, there will
be less and less into salaries. You can't have it all."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

      Copyright 2005 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.


                              75 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 8, 2015 Wednesday

Pacific Prime releases Article 1 of a 3 part report on cost of international
health insurance

LENGTH: 246  words

DATELINE: New York


Bio Medicine has issued the following news release:

Pacific Prime has released the first article of a new, FREE report looking at
the cost of individual international health insurance plans in 94 countries.
Titled, The cost of health insurance for expats in 94 countries, Article 1 looks
at the average cost of health insurance in 94 countries and ranks the 20 most
expensive and 5 least expensive countries.

Taking premiums from three plan levels offered by six of the top international
health insurance providers in the industry (who represent 30-50% of such plans
sold in the world), the average cost for each country has been calculated with
zero deductible or excess, and displayed for plans for Singles, Couples,
Families, and Retirees.

Report Highlights:
The most expensive country in the report is, unsurprisingly, the US - with an
average cost of USD 21,892, 49.7% more expensive than the second most expensive
plan.
Israel is in the top 5 most expensive plans for every demographic - with an
average cost of USD 10,125, the third most expensive country on average.
Poland is the cheapest country for individual international health insurance -
with an average cost of USD 6,687
Asia has some of the most expensive premiums - Hong Kong, Singapore, and China
are in the top five for every demographic.
The average price for individual health insurance plans.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                              July 1, 2014 Tuesday

Charles Joffe-Halpern: State health reform for the long haul

BYLINE: By Charles Joffe-Halpern, Special to the Eagle

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 598 words


NORTH ADAMS

Massachusetts has struggled implementing the Affordable Care Act, highlighted by
a problematic computer system and an inability to process thousands of
applications. Given that Massachusetts pioneered near universal coverage with
its 2006 landmark health care law, the state has received much criticism for its
inability to make the changes needed to accommodate the federal health coverage
expansion.

Massachusetts has not re ceived the recognition it de serves though, for taking
im portant steps that augers well for the long-term success of health reform.

n

When it became apparent the computer problems could not be easily solved, the
state decided to enroll over 227,000 individuals in temporary health insurance.
Health coverage was also extended to an additional 100,000 individuals who were
previously enrolled in the state's Commonwealth Care and Medical Security Plan
health insurance programs, Massachusetts has received approval to extend
coverage for these individuals through December 31, 2014.

The state has decided to scrap its computer system and pursue a dual track
strategy for the remainder of 2014 and throughout 2015. This includes using
hCentive, a system that has been used successfully in other states, while at the
same time, preparing to utilize the federal government's healthcare.gov platform
as a back-up should the hCentive model not be ready for implementation this
fall. While there will be much work to transition more than 325,000 individuals
into more permanent coverage, by providing temporary health insurance to these
individuals Massachu setts has lowered the numbers of uninsured residents to
below one percent.

Going forward, Massachu setts is also keeping health care cost sharing at
affordable levels for individuals and families with incomes under 300 percent of
the 2013 federal poverty guidelines ($34,476 for one, $70,656 for four). These
individuals will be eligible for MassHealth, or Connec tor Care, a health
insurance that has no annual deductibles. ConnectorCare members will also
receive additional assistance to lower the cost of health insurance premiums and
cost-sharing so that costs are similar to what individuals currently pay under
Com monwealth Care.

That Massachusetts is keeping health insurance premiums and cost sharing close
to previous levels is critical, because to keep the numbers of uninsured
residents under one percent, health insurance premiums and cost sharing will
need to be affordable. A recent Kaiser Family Foundation survey of non-group
health insurance enrollees throughout the country revealed: "Nearly half of
those in ACA-compliant plans say they're not confident they would be able to
afford to pay for a major illness or injury, over four in ten say it is
difficult to afford their monthly premiums, and over six in ten say they are
worried that their premiums will become unaffordable in the future."

n

The Affordable Care Act embraces the principle that all Americans deserve
affordable health coverage. While the federal law includes cost-sharing support
for individuals whose incomes are under 250 percent of the federal poverty
guidelines, each state has the latitude to implement policies that will
determine both the cost of health insurance premiums and the amount of cost
sharing for individuals who will qualify for assistance under the federal law.

Massachusetts has implemented policies that go beyond the federal guidelines and
will more effectively achieve the objectives of the Affordable Care Act.

Charles Joffe-Halpern is the executive director of Ecu-Health Care in North
Adams.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            October 26, 2008 Sunday

Utah insurers are still in the game

BYLINE: By Kelly Atkinson

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 493 words


In an editorial entitled "Play ball," The Salt Lake Tribune claims that health
insurance companies are doing their best to sabotage health-care reform in Utah.
Nothing could be further from the truth.

Utah health insurers believe that if there were a simple fix to the problems of
affordable health care, the United States would have found it by now. We can
assure the public and The Tribune that insurers are in the game, our cleats are
on, our bats at ready, and there are still innings left in the game.

Utah health insurance companies, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, have
the lowest health insurance premiums in the nation. In addition, Utah costs for
health care, in comparison to other industrial nations in the world where health
care is socialized, are slightly below average and yet the quality of that Utah
care exceeds other nations.

Utah insurance companies are working to modify the system without adding costs
or increasing the number of uninsured. Utah health insurance companies are
attempting to do something which is yet to be accomplished in this nation:
meaningful, enduring, reform which can be sustained.

To date, two proposals have been suggested to reform health care in Utah. The
first proposal would cost taxpayers $200 million in health-care subsidies to the
working poor and mandate every Utahn purchase health insurance. We agree with
the need for more Utahns to have coverage, but given the present financial
crisis faced by our state it is not realistic to ask the Legislature to raise
taxes and mandate coverage.

The second proposal suggests that a Web site be created where Utah consumers can
compare and purchase health insurance on their own rather than through their
employer. Employers would give employees a medical health insurance voucher
representing a set dollar amount to purchase health insurance.

While this would accomplish the purpose of fixing the cost of health insurance
expenditures for Utah employers, it would not address the rising costs of health
care for Utah consumers.

Unlike the two proposals presented, health insurers understand that simply
asking government for more money to fix the problem or shifting the
responsibility to pay for insurance to Utah consumers does not solve the
underlying problem of increasing costs.

Our focus has been on cost. It has been on creating price and quality
transparency so that people can begin to make informed consumer decisions,
finding ways to encourage and incentivize health and wellness, rethinking our
misaligned reimbursement system that rewards activity rather than value,
reducing the significant costs of defensive medicine, and developing new, less
expensive plan designs to supplement our already broad product offerings.

We are in the game, and our focus will remain on reducing costs as the only
meaningful way to reform health care for the good of all Utahns.

---

* KELLY ATKINSON is executive director of the Utah Health Insurance Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 3, 1978, Monday, Final Edition

Carter Weighing Gradual Plan For National Health Insurance;
Carter Weighs Gradual Health Insurance Plan

BYLINE: By Victor Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: First Section; A1

LENGTH: 710 words


President Carter is considering a new national health insurance plan that would
be implemented a step at a time, with each increase in coverage taking place
only if health costs were under control at the time.

The plan - or more precisely, a set of alternatives built around the same theme
- would eventually cover all Americans.  But it would have built-in brakes that
could be applied if at any point health cost increases become excessive.

This so-called "triggering in" has been put before the president by his leading
health and domestic affairs advisers, it was learned yesterday.

They are also arguing that only by covering all health costs - charges by
doctors, hospitals and others - can the government ever hope to bring them under
control.

A part of this argument was stated by Health Education and Welfare Secretary
Joseph A. Califano Jr. on the television program "Issues and Answers" (ABC,
WJLA) yesterday.

"If we do not have national health insurance in this country, we will have the
most incredible health cost inflation," Califano said.  "The American people
will pay more for health care without a national health insurance plan than with
it."

"Indeed," Califano said, "health care costs allowed to run wild the way they are
running now" will "hit more than $300 billion in 1983" and "make hamburger" out
of recent meat price increases.  (Beef prices rose a record 6.5 percent in April
and 2.5 percent in May, according to the latest figures.)

The idea of combining health insurance "triggering" and braking - and using the
whole system to control costs - is intended to help the president meet his
recent pledges to advocate "comprehensive" health insurance for all, while
mollifying his economic and anti-inflation advisers.  They would still like to
see him embrace only a few limited additions to the nation's health coverage.

"Triggering," said key administration officials, is the lastest idea of how the
nation might achieve broad national health insurance while keeping a hand on the
brake in case health cost controls fail.

"For example," one official said, "the president might ask Congress to begin
phasing in broadened health insurance in late 1982.

"We would start with insurance for some groups" - say, $20 billion worth of
coverage for mothers and children, or for part-time workers who now have poor
coverage.

"Then," he continued, "another $20 billion worth of insurance" for someone else
might be "triggered" in 1983 or 1984, if general inflation were not above 7
percent or health cost inflation were above 10 percent, just as arbitrary
figures.  I don't know what the figures might be.

"Or this next step might be triggered if the president or Congress - more
likely, the president - simply determined that health cost inflation was within
bounds."

"One can think of various combinations of triggers and conditions," another
official said.  "Of course, we don't know what the president will decide.  He
may decide against this concept.  But I think we'll see some kind of phasing in"
- step by step broadening of coverage - with triggering either automatic, if
certain conditions apply, or more closely controlled.

Carter's decision may be fully or partly disclosed in a set of "principles" he
has promised to give Califano within days.  Then Califano can, in his words on
television yesterday, "put together a plan."

The president has promised to give Congress this plan in time for Senate health
subcommittee hearings late this summer.  Organized labor and other health
insurance advocates want to try to force congressional candidates on the record
this fall, to make the next Congress the "National Health Insurance Congress."

What Congress will do in the next few years is uncertain.  The administration
has not even been able to get a hospital cost control bill past more than one of
four key committees despite 14 months' efforts.

"Still, health costs were about $160 billion last year," an official said.
"With the current health cost inflation of 12 percent or slightly higher, they
will be $310 billion by 1983.

"So many people are arguing that, technically and politically, the only way to
get control is an attractive national health insurance plan with many kinds of
controls."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1978 The Washington Post


                              79 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Nikkei Weekly (Japan)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday

Health insurance red ink needs to be bailed out

LENGTH: 392 words


Health insurance red ink needs to be bailed out

Corporate health insurance societies in Japan will have to rely on support to
stay afloat.

These organizations, funded by companies and their employees, face rising costs
as the number of retirees grows. Financial collapses are on the horizon.

A majority of the societies operate in the red. Now is the time to stop forcing
them to bear the burden of ever-increasing medical care costs. Sustainability
through measures such as using higher consumption tax to pay for rising health
care costs must be brought about.

According to the National Federation of Health Insurance Societies, a trade body
with around 1,400 members, total expenditures are expected to exceed revenues by
457.3 billion yen in fiscal 2013.

The projected deficit is smaller than the previous year because many societies
have raised premiums. Employers and employees are shouldering a heavy burden to
maintain health insurance programs.

The average premium rate, or the cost of insurance premiums divided by the
employee's salary is 8.6% and rising.

Elderly policyholders' medical costs are hurting the finances of health
insurance societies. Costs for geriatric care are eating up a record 46.25% of
premium revenues. In other words, nearly half the cost of premiums, which is
split equally between employers and employees, goes to the care of elderly
beneficiaries.

Some societies have responded to these pressures by dissolving themselves. The
health insurance program will become unsustainable if the burden on working
people increases. Measures to prevent that, including the use of more public
funds, are required.

Senior citizens will also have to start paying more for their own medical care.

People aged 70-74 are legally required to pay 20% of the cost of their care.
They are paying 10% at present. Prime Minister Abe is calling for the Diet to
discuss raising this rate. A plan to do so should be fleshed out soon.

Medical costs for all patients can be reduced by promoting generic drugs, for
example.

As more baby boomers pass 65, health care costs will continue to rise. It is
important to establish an efficient health insurance program, including better
ways of providing medical services, so that both the elderly and younger people
can face the future with a sense of security.

(The Nikkei Weekly 05/13/2013 Edition)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc.


                              80 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday

City mulls `opt-out' plan for insurance

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 637 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


With the city facing a 9 percent increase in its health insurance costs for
employees and retirees, the City Council has asked the city administration to
consider an "opt-out" program for employees to save money.

Under a proposal broached by Councilor-at-Large Michael J. Germain, municipal
workers covered by one of the city's health insurance carriers would receive a
payment from the city if they dropped their coverage and got their health
insurance from another provider, such as through their spouse.

Mr. Germain said such opt-out programs are fairly common in the private sector
and have helped lower health insurance costs.

He said the city had an opt-out program more than 10 years ago and he believes
it is time to offer employees such an incentive again.

"This is something that is done fairly often in the private sector and it always
seems to work," Mr. Germain said. "We would be looking for employees to opt out
of their health insurance plan by offering them an incentive.

"It's not something that we can do every year," he continued. "But it's been at
least 10 years since the city last offered an opt-out program and it has taken
on a lot of new employees since then who might be interested in participating in
such a program. This can help drive down the overall cost of our health
insurance, and it is something that should be on the table."

Councilor-at-Large Konstantina B. Lukes said such a program would have to
prohibit employees who opt out from switching back to a city health plan for a
certain period of time.

She said when the city last offered the opt-out program, there were people who
received payments for dropping their health plan, only to rejoin in a couple of
years.

"I'm not sure if we saved very much," she said.

The city last offered an opt-out program in 2002 with the agreement of the
municipal employee unions.

Under that program, employees covered under a Blue Cross Blue Shield family plan
received $3,487 from the city if they left that plan and got their health
insurance from another provider outside the city government.

The payment was equivalent to 40 percent of the city's costs, based on the
annual premiums at that time.

The city limited the number of employees who could participate in that program
to 10 percent of the subscribers in each of the three health plans that were
offered by the city back then.

But the program received a tepid response from employees, in large part because
the city's health insurance benefits then were far more generous than what was
being offered in the private sector.

Given the changes that have taken place during the past several years to the
city's health insurance plans, Mr. Germain said, the response could be greater
this time around.

Meanwhile, District 1 Councilor Tony Economou asked the city administration for
a report on the number of employees who would have to participate in an opt-out
program for it to save the city money.

With the city in the process of setting premiums for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, municipal health insurance costs are projected to increase by $4.8
million - $1.8 million for the city side of government and $3 million for the
public schools.

City Manager Michael V. O'Brien said $1.6 million of the increased costs will
have to be borne by employees and retirees, who pay 25 percent of their health
insurance premium costs while the city pays 75 percent.

Edward J. Pietrewicz, speaking on behalf of retired Worcester police officers
and firefighters, said retirees cannot absorb any more of an increase in their
health insurance costs.

He said some retirees have annual pensions as little as $7,436 and they simply
cannot keep up with increased costs for health insurance.

"The retirees are stressed out and can't afford any more," Mr. Pietrewicz said.

Contact Nick Kotsopoulos at nkotsopoulos@telegram.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                                 July 16, 2001

Study: Small-Business Owners Back Tax Credit For Low-Income Employees

BYLINE: By Marcella DeSimone

SECTION: HEALTH INSURANCE AGENTS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 936 words


In an attempt to bolster its lobbying efforts on Capitol Hill, National
Association of Health Underwriters commissioned a study on how small-business
owners would react to a tax credit on health insurance costs for their
lower-income employees.

NAHU spokesman Martin Carr says the Washington-based trade group can take the
study to Capitol Hill "and say we did a statistically valid survey that says the
majority of small-business owners are more than willing to go for a tax credit.
I'm thinking the people who said 'no' don't really understand it, it's just a
knee-jerk reaction to another government program."

Almost half of all small-business owners surveyed who offer health insurance
have employees contribute to the cost.  The findings suggest that if a tax
credit is approved, most small-business owners offering health plans would not
as a result decrease their share of the costs.

Thomas Bruderle, NAHU's director of congressional affairs, says the study will
be used as an example to legislators of the willingness of small-business owners
"to help employees get coverage."

Among the findings in the study is that three-quarters of small businesses (with
between two and 50 benefits-eligible employees) in the United States currently
offer employee health insurance.

Health Maintenance Organizations and Preferred Provider Organizations are the
most common plans provided by small businesses, the study finds, with most
companies, 81%, offering only one plan.

Of the small businesses that don't currently offer health insurance, the
majority has never done so, the study finds.  It also finds that a prohibitive
cost is the most frequently cited reason for not offering it.

Employees who contribute to the cost of coverage pay on average 42% -- about $
44 per month -- of the total cost, the study says.

The majority of employees making contributions pay an additional cost to add
family members onto the coverage, the study finds.  The average monthly cost of
adding a spouse is $ 168.  That figure increases to $ 249 per month when both
spouse and children are covered.

Eighty-three percent of respondents said the cost of their company health
insurance increased last year.  The average increase was 15%.  Most employers,
71%, said they will change health plans or carriers if there are future
increases, and/or have employees share the increased cost.  Only 25% would have
the employees pay the entire additional cost and even fewer, 21%, would stop
providing health insurance.

About half of the respondents that offer health insurance said that all eligible
employees take the company's coverage.  Seventy-nine percent of employees who
don't take company coverage choose not to because they have coverage elsewhere,
the study finds.  Eighteen percent refuse company coverage because of cost or
other financial reasons.

Fifty-nine percent of small businesses and 58% of employees said they are
satisfied with their company's health plan; however, employers generally are not
satisfied with insurance options available to their company.  Nonetheless, most
said they don't get negative feedback about their health plan from their
employees.

Fifty-two percent of respondents said the high cost of health insurance is a
major problem facing health care in the U.S. Twenty-nine percent pointed to a
lack of access as a major problem.

Respondents were asked what they thought of four proposed federal health care
initiatives.  Eighty-four percent said they are in favor of a tax incentive
offered through employers to help lower-wage employees pay some or all of their
health care premiums.  Seventy-six percent said they favor offering lower-income
employees a tax incentive or government subsidy to help pay their share of
health insurance costs, regardless of where the insurance is bought.

Seventy-one percent favor federal money for states to help buy coverage for
people who don't qualify for the Medicaid program but still can't afford health
insurance.

Most companies would take part in a government subsidy or tax incentive program
to help pay health insurance costs for low-income employees, the study shows.

If a tax incentive were granted, 53% would be unlikely to reduce the company
contribution toward their employees' health coverage.

The study finds that of the small-business owners who do not offer their
employees health coverage, 41% have considered speaking to an agent.  Most have
not offered coverage not because of negative experiences with agents, but
because either their employees have coverage outside of work, the costs are
prohibitive or they have too little time to meet with an agent.

Forty-eight percent of respondents said that agents or brokers increase the cost
of health care coverage.  One-fourth of the total number of respondents feels
that agents or brokers work for a specific health plan and are not necessary.

Most respondents who offer health insurance coverage worked with a health
insurance agent to select a plan, the study finds.

Presenting them with a number of plans and helping them with claims and problems
are among services agents commonly provide, respondents said.

Eighty-seven percent of respondents said agents or brokers could help them get
the most from their health insurance.  Most also agreed that agents or brokers
provide important services and additional value to their coverage.

These findings lead Carr to point to a tangential benefit of the study: that
"it's refreshing to see that insurance people aren't perceived as the bad guy.
The agent almost feels like an employee to the small-business owner."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 The National Underwriter Company


                              82 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                            January 14, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended

Insurance costs killing cities

BYLINE: By J.J. Huggins

SECTION: TOP

LENGTH: 1196 words


Taxpayers have been paying millions of dollars more per year for Fitchburg and
Leominster employees' health insurance during the last six years, according to
the state Department of Revenue.

The skyrocketing costs eat away at the cities' budgets and use up money that
could be spent on other things to benefit residents, officials say.

"The health care costs are absolutely strangling cities' and towns' ability to
provide services," said Gerard D. Perry, deputy commissioner of the Division of
Local Services at the state Department of Revenue.

Fitchburg and Leominster have each seen the cost of paying for their employees'
health insurance rise by $8 million between fiscal year 2001 and fiscal year
2006, according to data published on the DOR's Web site.

Fitchburg spent $22.2 million last year, and Leominster spent $14.7, the data
shows.

In 2001, Fitchburg spent $13.5 million and Leominster spent $$6.7 million.

Leominster taxpayers shell out between $415 and $1,454 per city employee for the
employee's individual health plans, or between $1,080 and $3,617 per employee
for employee's family plans -- depending on which plan the employees choose --
according to documents provided by the comptroller's office.

The mayors of the two cities, which each have roughly 1,000 employees, were
unable to explain why there is such a huge difference in what they pay for
health insurance.

Soaring costs

But Chris Murphy, spokesman for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, said
the biggest factor for rising health insurance costs is new technology in the
medical industry.

There are new drugs and new methods to diagnose and treat illnesses, Murphy
said.

"New technology is great, it helps people live longer," he said. "But those
things all come at a cost."

The aging population is another factor, Murphy said.

"We're also seeing the increase in utilization (of health care) because people
are getting older," he said.

That's one of the reasons for the rising costs among government workers, since
"municipalities typically employ an older work force," Murphy said.

"You're going to see that the aging population is going to affect costs more and
more," he said. "As people age, costs will increase with them."

Planning their budgets

The mayors of Fitchburg and Leominster have to plan their budgets around
staggering health insurance costs each year.

"There's nothing you can do, you have to provide it," said Fitchburg Mayor Dan
H. Mylott.

But Perry pointed to a bill co-sponsored by state Rep. Rachel Kaprielian ,
D-Watertown, and state Sen. Richard Moore, D-Uxbridge, that would allow
municipalities to join the state's Group Insurance Commission.

The GIC provides state employees with health insurance.

Cities and towns would have more buying power if they joined the GIC, and by
joining the GIC, health insurance wouldn't be part of union negotiations, Perry
said.

Having the extra buying power and taking health insurance out of the collective
bargaining process would dramatically cut down on costs, Perry said.

He pointed to the DOR's data as an example of how the state's health insurance
costs have risen much slower than the costs for cities and towns.

The state's health insurance costs rose from $605.5 million in fiscal year 2001,
to roughly $896 million in fiscal year 2006, according to the DOR.

That's an increase of 47.9 percent, which is far less than the rate that health
insurance costs have been rising for municipalities, Perry said.

"There's no question cities and towns can save money by doing this. It's a
no-brainer quite frankly," he said. "Leominster is a poster child for this.
Leominster has gone up 119 percent (from more than $6 million to more than $14
million between FY 2001 and FY 2006)."

Fitchburg's health insurance costs have risen by 63.5 percent during the last
six years, or from $13.5 million in fiscal year 2001 to $22.2 million in fiscal
year 2006, according to the DOR.

Michael Widmer, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayer's Foundation, agrees
with Perry.

"The major difference is that at the state level, it's not part of the
collective-bargaining process and at the municipal level, it is absolutely
central to the collective-bargaining process," Widmer said.

Both Mylott and Leominster Mayor Dean J. Mazzarella said they are aware of the
new bill and will be looking at it to see if it would in fact save their cities
money.

"I think it has great merit," Mylott said. "I think we have to analyze it."

"I think it's only due diligence to take a peak at it," Mazzarella said.

Widmer, whose group studies health-care policy, agreed rising health-care costs
are a problem nationwide.

He said there are two main reasons.

"People are living longer, and it's in your older years that you need more
health care," he said.

The other factor is that medical technology is improving and there are more
options becoming available to treat and diagnose illnesses, he said.

"These are all good things, but they're very costly," he said.

For example, the police and fire unions in Leominster agreed to pay five percent
more for their health insurance in their new contracts.

That means they will pay for 25 percent of their health insurance, and the city
will pay 75 percent.

The other unions in the city still have an 80-20 split, but Mazzarella said he
will be looking to get them to agree to pay more for their health care.

"Right now, as we negotiate each contract, we're negotiating in the 75-25," he
said.

Widmer said Leominster's effort to get city employees to pay for more of their
health insurance is a step in the right direction in reducing the burden to
taxpayers.

"Going from 20 percent to 25 percent is a step," he said. "But I think it has to
center on getting health care out of the collective bargaining process and
having municipalities join the Group Insurance Commission."

He said splitting the cost of health insurance by having the employer pay 75
percent and having the employee pay 25 percent is more in tune with the private
sector.

All city employees in Fitchburg have a 75-25 split, Mylott said.

Mazzarella agreed the soaring health-care costs absorb dollars that could be
spent on services for residents.

He likened the city's situation to homeowners dealing with rising costs.

"In your house, if your electric bill goes up, that's discretionary expendable
dollars that you won't be able to spend on something else," he said.

Other than asking employees to pay more for their health insurance, Mazzarella
said officials are trying to combat the rising costs by keeping city workers
healthy.

"If people are injured, we try to get them back to work -- we try to get them
back to light-duty," he said.

The mayor noted that Blue Cross Blue Shield has a program where they will pay
for part of their customers' gym membership, as a way to urge people to get into
shape.

The city also has a safety committee that talks "about issues that make an
unsafe working environment," and city workers have weight-loss challenges,
Mazzarella said.

Mylott said he encourages Fitchburg's workers to be healthier to, but that can
only do so much.

"The fact of the matter is insurance costs are insurance costs, and you don't
have any control over the use of that money," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2007



CORRECTION: Because of information provided to the state Department of Revenue
by the city of Fitchburg, an article on Jan. 14 inaccurately reflected how much
money Fitchburg taxpayers spend on city employees' health insurance.

The data reported by the DOR represented the amount of money spent by taxpayers,
plus the amount of money in a Health Trust Fund for fiscal years 2001-2006,
according to City Auditor/Finance Director Richard N. Sarasin.

Taxpayers spent $5.6 million on city employees' health insurance in fiscal year
2001; $6.1 million in fiscal year 2002; $6.8 million in fiscal year 2003; $7.9
million in fiscal year 2004; $8.9 million in fiscal year 2005; and $9.5 million
in fiscal year 2006, according to data provided by Sarasin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                           February 7, 2013 Thursday

W-2 will reveal true cost of health care

BYLINE: The Kansas City Star

LENGTH: 534 words


Look closely at your new W-2 form this tax season. Notice Box 12 and a
two-letter code, DD.

If you work for an employer with 250 or more workers, information in that box
for the first time is required by the Affordable Care Act. It tells how much you
and your employer spent on your health insurance premiums.

"It's going to be an eye-opener for a lot of people," said Jerry Nebbia, a
health benefits expert in Mercer's Kansas City, Mo., office. "A lot of people
have no idea what the true cost is."

The W-2 reporting requirement for health insurance is to expand next year to
include employers with fewer than 250 on payroll.

The health insurance benefit amount isn't taxable as personal income - for now,
anyway. But it's insight into your employer's total cost of your compensation.

It's a close reflection of what you would pay if you lost your employer subsidy
and wanted to continue the same coverage under COBRA.

In the workplace at large, the cost of employer-paid benefits equals nearly 31
percent of total employment costs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Of that, health insurance costs account for about 7.7 percent of employer costs
in private industry and about 11.7 percent in state and local government.

For some workers, employer-sponsored health insurance is a hefty benefit
amounting to $5,000, $10,000, even $20,000 a year.

Last year, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation's survey,
employer-sponsored health insurance cost an average of $5,615 for individuals
and $15,745 for families.

The requirement to include the full health insurance cost on W-2s was conceived
partly to make employees more aware of the actual cost of their coverage.

Often, employees with employer-subsidized coverage are paying only one-fourth of
the full premium cost.

Knowing the real price is important because workers are being asked to be
smarter consumers of health care, to make more coverage choices or to shoulder
more of the cost.

Knowing the full cost of health benefits also may help explain why pay raises
are smaller than employees would like; sometimes, employers are putting more
money into health insurance instead of direct wages and salaries.

If you see the Box 12, DD information, you may have to do some extra work to
figure out what your employer's cost was. You may need to look at your final pay
stub from 2012 and subtract what you paid for your health insurance from the new
DD amount. The difference is your employer's share.

Of note: This box shows only premium costs. It doesn't reflect anything you
spent on out-of-pocket health care expenses, your co-payments or deductibles. It
also doesn't include money in health savings accounts, and it isn't required to
include amounts spent on separate dental or vision plans.

Although your employer's health care contribution isn't counted as taxable
income now, the Box 12, DD information lays the groundwork for possible tax law
changes if Congress decides the value of that employee benefit should be taxed.
The tax break for employer-paid health benefits equals about $180 billion a year
in potential tax revenue. Analysts say that is worth 80 percent more than the
tax break for home mortgage interest deductions.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                           February 7, 2013 Thursday

W-2 will reveal true cost of health care

BYLINE: The Kansas City Star

LENGTH: 534 words


Look closely at your new W-2 form this tax season. Notice Box 12 and a
two-letter code, DD.

If you work for an employer with 250 or more workers, information in that box
for the first time is required by the Affordable Care Act. It tells how much you
and your employer spent on your health insurance premiums.

"It's going to be an eye-opener for a lot of people," said Jerry Nebbia, a
health benefits expert in Mercer's Kansas City, Mo., office. "A lot of people
have no idea what the true cost is."

The W-2 reporting requirement for health insurance is to expand next year to
include employers with fewer than 250 on payroll.

The health insurance benefit amount isn't taxable as personal income - for now,
anyway. But it's insight into your employer's total cost of your compensation.

It's a close reflection of what you would pay if you lost your employer subsidy
and wanted to continue the same coverage under COBRA.

In the workplace at large, the cost of employer-paid benefits equals nearly 31
percent of total employment costs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Of that, health insurance costs account for about 7.7 percent of employer costs
in private industry and about 11.7 percent in state and local government.

For some workers, employer-sponsored health insurance is a hefty benefit
amounting to $5,000, $10,000, even $20,000 a year.

Last year, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation's survey,
employer-sponsored health insurance cost an average of $5,615 for individuals
and $15,745 for families.

The requirement to include the full health insurance cost on W-2s was conceived
partly to make employees more aware of the actual cost of their coverage.

Often, employees with employer-subsidized coverage are paying only one-fourth of
the full premium cost.

Knowing the real price is important because workers are being asked to be
smarter consumers of health care, to make more coverage choices or to shoulder
more of the cost.

Knowing the full cost of health benefits also may help explain why pay raises
are smaller than employees would like; sometimes, employers are putting more
money into health insurance instead of direct wages and salaries.

If you see the Box 12, DD information, you may have to do some extra work to
figure out what your employer's cost was. You may need to look at your final pay
stub from 2012 and subtract what you paid for your health insurance from the new
DD amount. The difference is your employer's share.

Of note: This box shows only premium costs. It doesn't reflect anything you
spent on out-of-pocket health care expenses, your co-payments or deductibles. It
also doesn't include money in health savings accounts, and it isn't required to
include amounts spent on separate dental or vision plans.

Although your employer's health care contribution isn't counted as taxable
income now, the Box 12, DD information lays the groundwork for possible tax law
changes if Congress decides the value of that employee benefit should be taxed.
The tax break for employer-paid health benefits equals about $180 billion a year
in potential tax revenue. Analysts say that is worth 80 percent more than the
tax break for home mortgage interest deductions.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)

                              March 9, 2015 Monday

Call for KiwiSaver-style health cover

BYLINE: ROB STOCK

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 484 words


STARTING a new job could in the future also see you being automatically enrolled
in a personal health insurance plan.

The KiwiSaver-style approach to boosting the number of people with private
health insurance could take pressure off the state health system, according to a
report to be published today.

The report by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research (NZIER) canvases
the policy options that politicians have at their disposal to encourage people
to buy their own private health insurance.

One option would be to mimic an aspect of KiwiSaver and auto-enrol people in a
health insurance plan when they start a new job. The report was paid for by the
Health Funds Association, the lobby group for health insurers such as Southern
Cross, nib, and Sovereign.

With an ageing population, government spending on healthcare is rising, and
there will be growing pressure to further ration services and encourage people
to pay more of their own healthcare costs, NZIER says. Health insurance pays for
the costs of things like surgery and hospital stays for people who pay premiums
every month, meaning the state does not have to pay for their care.

But the number of people with health insurance has been falling as a result of
large rises in premiums, driven by higher medical costs.

NZIER canvassed a range of options, but found the "most promising" to be "a
KiwiSaver- style" scheme.

"This option would involve legislation requiring that all employers provide
access to health insurance for employees and their families," NZIER says.

Auto-enrolment, or "soft compulsion" would aim to overcome people's "status quo
bias", while allowing them to opt-out, if they want to.

Auto-enrolment could be made even more effective by offering a "targeted
enrolment subsidy" and requiring employers to pay part of the premiums, NZIER
said.

If there was no appetite for a KiwiSaver-like option, lawmakers could instead
require employers to offer health insurance to new employees and just let the
employee decide whether to take it out or not.

Roger Styles, chief executive of the Health Funds Association, said the report
found that health insurance could play a big part in funding future healthcare
costs, and that there were big productivity gains to be had from helping people
return to work faster.

Styles said that NZIER had found that increasing the number of workers covered
by health insurance by 20 per cent could save around $60 million to $110m in
lost output, because they would get treated faster than on the state.

NZIER also considered the benefits of adopting an Australian-style "tax
surcharge" on higher-income earners who do not have health insurance.

--------------------

CAPTION:

Cutting back: Health insurance pays for the costs of things like surgery and
hospital stays, but the number of people with health insurance has been falling
as a result of large rises in premiums, driven by higher medical costs.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 THE AUSTRALIAN

                          December 4, 1996, Wednesday

State health cover costs face 20pc rise

BYLINE: JOHN SHORT

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 502 words


VICTORIAN health authorities are considering a plan to sharply increase charges
for private patients in public hospitals that it estimates could drive up health
insurance premiums in the State by 20 per cent.

In a detailed discussion paper sent to health insurance funds in September, the
Victorian Department of Human Services has advocated the removal of the $130
million annual subsidy for private patients in its public hospitals.

The paper argues strongly in favour of allowing public hospitals to directly
compete with private hospitals for fee-paying patients, with State hospitals
then being allowed to fully recover the costs involved in accommodation and
treatment.

"If public hospitals were to charge private patients on a fullcost recovery
basis, and if health insurance organisations paid equivalent benefits to those
provided for treatment in private hospitals, the cost of health insurance in
Victoria could potentially increase by about 20 per cent," the paper stated. The
department noted this would have a significant adverse impact on the Federal
Government's policy of boosting health insurance through a tax rebate scheme to
operate from next July.

"It is likely that a price increase of this magnitude would dramatically
accelerate the fall in the number of people covered by health insurance," it
stated.

A new round of health insurance premium increases triggered by implementation of
the Victorian plan would place the federal Minister for Health, Dr Wooldridge,
under significant political pressure over the value of his health insurance
incentive scheme.

Major cost increases over 1995-96 forced the Howard Government to agree to
substantial increases in health insurance premiums over recent months, with the
ALP claiming that these increases would severely undermine the value of the tax
rebate.

And as revealed in The Weekend Australian, the health insurance industry lost
$65.227 million in the September quarter - close to the $81.33 million lost in
the whole of last financial year which is expected to place the funds under
intense pressure to seek further premium increases in 1997.

In an attempt to address the health insurance membership risks attached to its
plan, the Victorian department argues that if full-cost recovery were introduced
gradually, the resultant increase in health insurance benefit payouts "will be
manageable". However, adoption of this plan by Victoria would be expected to
lead to a number of other States introducing "full-cost recovery"  for private
patients in their public hospital systems.

This could then trigger a new round of health insurance premium increases that
Dr Wooldridge would have no power to veto, despite the damaging effect this
could have on its health insurance incentives.

Alternatively, it could impose a financial penalty on any State implementing a
"full-cost recovery" policy and use the resultant funds to directly subsidise
the health insurance industry to hold premiums steady.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 1996 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              87 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                               May 4, 2007 Friday

Health costs to go up in 2008

BYLINE: By Tony Dobrowolski, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: LOCAL; Top Local

LENGTH: 704 words


PITTSFIELD -- The city is expecting a 9.4 percent increase in its fiscal 2008
health insurance plan because it will add 45 new employees to replace those who
are retiring, according to Holly Taylor of True North Financial Services,
Pittsfield's health insurance broker.

The new employees alone will add $450,000 to the city's health care costs.
Although the monthly rate for HMO Blue will increase only 6 percent in fiscal
2008, Pittsfield's total health insurance costs will rise 9.2 percent to $19.8
million with the addition of the new employees who will replace retiring city
and School Department employees, she said. The total cost of the health plan is
expected to be $23.8 million.

City Treasurer G. Richard Bordeau said that a rise in both medical and
prescription drug costs also will contribute to the overall increase.

Meanwhile, the Health Insurance Advisory Committee has approved a proposal that
would change Pittsfield's health insurance plan from self-funded to fully funded
for the upcoming fiscal year, which begins July 1.

This proposal is not related to the overall increase in the city's health
insurance costs.

The city is seeking the move because its Blue Cross Blue Shield premium, or
fully funded, rates are within $100,000 of the projected self-funded plan's
costs for fiscal 2008, Taylor said.

Under the self-funded plan, the city of Pittsfield pays all of its actual health
insurance claims. Under a fully funded plan, Blue Cross Blue Shield would assume
all of that risk during that plan year.

Taylor said the difference in the rate between the two plans is closer than it
has normally been because the city had benefited from self-funding over the past
year.

"It just seems like a good idea to do this," she said.



Plan options
Here's how the renewal of the city's health insurance plan affects the
available options: HMO Blue New England: The rates will increase 6 percent. But
total costs are expected to jump about 9.2 percent with the expected addition
of 45 new employees. Blue Care Elect PPO: A 4.7 percent rate increase is
expected in costs related to fiscal 2007 (there was no increase in rates for
the current fiscal year). This is the city's smallest health care plan, with 30
employees and out-of-state retirees. Medex 3: An 11.1 percent rate increase is
expected for this self-funded Medicare supplement. This program also
experienced no rate increase in fiscal 2007. Managed Blue for Seniors: Rates
will increase 11.1 percent. It is another self-funded Medicare supplement HMO
plan but is not part of the city's self-funded pool. The program is rated
through a statewide Blue Cross program. -- Tony Dobrowolski


'A great opportunity'

Mayor James M. Ruberto said he is in favor of the changes in plans but could not
comment on specifics because he had yet to speak with Blue Cross Blue Shield
representatives.

"I saw a great opportunity for Pittsfield, if we can do it," he said.

The move to a fully funded plan also would require the city to pay all claims
for services received in fiscal 2007 that are billed during the new fiscal year.
The pool of money that the city has set aside to pay for claims under the
self-funded plan has reserves that are set aside for this purpose. On renewal,
the city would still be rated on its experience and could choose to revert to
the self-funding plan.

The shift to a fully funded plan is contingent on the approval of all 18 of the
city's collective-bargaining units. If any union rejects the proposal, the city
will retain the self-funded plan but use Blue Cross premium rates as its working
rates for that initiative.

Pittsfield has until May 15 to notify Blue Cross Blue Shield of its intentions,
Personnel Director David Battistoni said.

The unions are required to approve the proposal because a shift in plans would
add chiropractic services to the city's health care plan. Also, as a premium
group, the city would be subject to extended coverage for dependents under
Massachusetts Health Care Reform.

The state Health Care Reform law allows children to remain on the family plan
for two years after they lose the dependent status that is determined by the
Internal Revenue Service. The city opted out of this coverage when it adopted
the self-funded plan.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday

Insurance Companies Oppose Regulation Plan

LENGTH: 335 words


By Yoon Ja-young

Tension is escalating between the government and the insurance industry over the
revision of regulations on the private health insurance market.

Korea Life Insurance Association Chairman Namkoong Hoon and General Insurance
Association of Korea Chairman Ahn Kong-hyuk yesterday strongly criticized the
Ministry of Health and Welfare for what they called a policy to ``obliterate the
private health insurance industry.''

A committee set up by the government to improve health insurance announced a
revised regulatory plan last week, which includes forbidding private health
insurance firms from covering the cost that an individual is supposed to bear
under the National Health Insurance system.

Under the current National Health Insurance system, not all health services are
covered. For example, using an expensive medical device is not covered by
National Health Insurance. Even among the health services that are covered,
individuals are supposed to pay around 30 percent of the medical cost.

For their policyholders, private health insurance companies have covered the
cost that individuals are responsible for, plus the expenses not covered by the
National Health Insurance program.

The government measure is based on the assumption that people will abuse health
services as individual burdens decrease thanks to private health insurance,
which the government believes will increase the financial instability of
National Health Insurance.

However, the insurance industry says the consumer burden is going to increase if
private health insurance doesn't cover the cost. The life and non-life insurance
associations said in the announcement that the revised regulation is
unprecedented, and that it is based on the wrong assumption that private health
insurance ruins financial stability for National Health Insurance.

``Private health insurance is more popular among low-income households. It is a
very important source of money for poor families to access health service,'' an
insurance expert said.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

Police to pay more for coverage // Health cost hike pairs with raises

BYLINE: Kim Ring

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: SPENCER


The following correction was published in the Telegram & Gazette on March 22,
2011:

SPENCER - Police have agreed to increase contributions to their health insurance
by 17.5 percent over the next three years. Because of a reporter's error, the
percentage of the increase was incorrect in yesterday's Telegram & Gazette.

----------------------------

SPENCER - Police have agreed to increase their contributions to health insurance
by 27.5 percent over the next three years. (SEE PUBLISHED CORRECTION)

Officers will also receive cost-of-living increases in the second and third
years of the contract. The contract was ratified by members of Massachusetts
C.O.P. Local 175 late last week after selectmen signed the pact March 14.

In the first year, officers will begin paying 25 percent of their health
insurance, up 2.5 percent for most officers. There is no cost-of-living raise
that year. In year two, they will pay 30 percent of their health insurance and
will earn a 2 percent cost-of-living allowance.

The final year will see officers paying 40 percent of their health insurance and
receiving a 3 percent raise.

As of July 1, officers will also pay 40 percent of their dental insurance plan,
as well. The contract also adds an additional step for officers and sergeants.

"With everything going on with the economy, I think it's a fair contract," Union
President James J. Murray said. "Our concern was keeping the level of services.
We're still understaffed but I think each member of the association looked at
this and said, `Where do I want to be?'"

Officer Murray said he was also concerned about preserving jobs in the
department, and making concessions helped avoid any layoffs.

Officers will continue to receive so-called Quinn Bill incentives, which
increase their pay by 10 percent for an associate's degree, 20 percent for a
bachelor's degree and 25 percent for a master's degree. But new officers will
receive less.

There are also longevity bonuses.

But despite those benefits, officers will likely see their take-home pay
decrease in the first year because of the additional health insurance costs.

Officer Murray said he's hoping the town will start to look at ways to cut
health insurance costs for retirees, and said he'd rather pay more for the
benefit while he's working.

"Retirees are on a fixed income," he said. "I'm hoping the town will be able to
look at that and do something to help them."

Selectmen called the contract "unprecedented" and said shifting the cost of
health care will allow the town to use the money saved to maintain services in
other areas and avoid layoffs.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPENCER - Police have agreed to increase their contributions to health
insurance by 27.5 percent over the next three years. Officers will also receive
cost-of-living increases in the second and third years of the contract. The
contract was ratified by members of Massachusetts C.O.P. Local 175 late last
week after selectmen signed the pact March 14.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 4, 2007 Sunday
                                WEB ONLY EDITION

RENDELL TAKES A WRONG TURN;
HEALTH CARE SHOULD BE MORE CONSUMER- AND MARKET-DRIVEN, NOT VEER TOWARDS
SOCIALIZED MEDICINE

BYLINE: MATTHEW J. BROUILLETTE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 947 words


Gov. Ed Rendell wants to expand health insurance to 767,000 uninsured
Pennsylvanians by increasing taxes on employers and tobacco users, to name just
a few. The full costs have yet to be quantified, but they are sure to be
underestimated from the get-go, like all other government-run health-care
programs.

Setting aside the multi-billion dollar price tag that will accompany "Cover All
Pennsylvanians," expanding taxpayer-subsidized health-care insurance fails to
address the reasons why people don't have insurance coverage in the first place.

First, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, there are about 517,000 uninsured
Pennsylvanians between the ages of 18 and 34. Understandably, this relatively
healthy demographic is neither interested nor willing to pay for an expensive
insurance program that they do not intend to utilize.

Second, the reason health insurance is so pricey is because health care itself
is expensive. But the high cost of health care is primarily due to the
health-insurance model of how we pay for health care. Indeed, the
health-insurance system bears much of the responsibility for helping create a
health-care system that is expensive, inefficient, bureaucratic and error-prone.

Unfortunately for both health-care consumers and taxpayers in Pennsylvania, Gov.
Rendell's solution to the problem -- subsidizing and ultimately mandating
health-insurance coverage -- is not a solution at all. Indeed, such a scheme
will only serve to exacerbate the problems in our health-care system.

So what is the solution? First, we need to rethink the role of health insurance.
Instead of being a pre-payment plan for future health-care services we may or
may not use, health-insurance coverage should be restored to the same function
in our lives as home or auto insurance. We should utilize health insurance for
catastrophic purposes, not daily maintenance.

Think about it. We don't purchase auto insurance to cover our oil changes or
adding washer fluid. We buy it to protect us from major, unforeseen accidents.
Auto owners pay for the regular upkeep and maintenance of their cars. We don't
fill up with gas and send an invoice to GEICO or Progressive -- or the
taxpayers. If we did, we wouldn't care about how much a tank of gas costs.
Herein lies the problem.

The fact that our auto insurance doesn't operate like our health insurance is
what keeps prices competitive and relatively low for basic services. It also
keeps premiums for catastrophic coverage reasonable because they are adjusted to
our expected claims. If you're a good driver, you get price breaks. If you're a
habitual speeder, you pay more. For the most part, unlike your health insurance,
your auto-insurance premium is not affected by how bad of a driver your neighbor
is.

Health insurance should be designed and utilized in the same manner. But it's
not. Our health insurance operates like a pre-payment plan for the medical
equivalent of filling up with gas or purchasing new tires, as well as when we
ruin our car in an accident. The result is that we don't pay much attention to
the price of medical services. Yet this is precisely what has caused the
hyper-inflation of health-care costs and, by extension, the expensive nature of
basic health insurance -- which is why many people choose to go without.

If lawmakers allowed health insurance to operate in a manner similar to auto
insurance (currently it can't because of government regulations, restrictions
and myriad other interventions in the health-care marketplace), we would put
Pennsylvanians back in the driver's seat. As direct consumers of health care, we
would better control costs by better managing our basic services because we --
not some third-party, either an insurance company or taxpayers -- would pay for
our simple health-care expenses. We need to think in terms of personal
responsibility when considering health-insurance.

Gov. Rendell's proposal does nothing to interject these necessary incentives
into our current health-care system. Under his scheme, consumers would continue
to have little concern about the actual costs of medical services. And why
should they? They won't have to pay the bills; someone else will.

This is why the governor's "Prescription for Pennsylvania" will fail: He is
prescribing treatment for the symptom rather than the cause of the problem.
Expanding insurance coverage at taxpayers' expense without first addressing the
factors that are driving up health-care costs will only exacerbate our
health-care problems. Under the governor's scheme, neither the cost of health
care nor the cost of insurance will ever become reasonably priced for the
average Pennsylvanian.

A cynic might suggest that the failure of our health-care system is precisely
what Gov. Rendell hopes for in order to push for his ideal of a government-run,
taxpayer-funded health-care system. Lawmakers who recognize the folly and harm
of socialized health care would be wise to begin proposing and pushing for ways
state government could more effectively address rising health-care costs,
including:

* Giving individuals the same tax benefits for purchasing health insurance as
businesses;

* Allowing individuals and small businesses to better pool resources to purchase
private insurance;

* Expanding Health Savings Accounts and access to high-deductible insurance
plans;

* Making health-care prices more transparent for consumers;

* Permitting individuals and businesses to purchase insurance outside
Pennsylvania;

* Reducing insurance-coverage mandates, and

* Enacting reasonable limits on lawsuit awards for noneconomic damage.

Only then will we start curing the cause of our health-care ills, rather than
just treating a symptom.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Matthew J. Brouillette is president and CEO of the Commonwealth
Foundation, a public policy research and educational institute located in
Harrisburg (mjb@ commonwealthfoundation.org).

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: By Daniel Marsula/Post-Gazette

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              91 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        The Camp Verde Journal (Arizona)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               February 27, 2013

New way to buy health insurance coming;
GUEST PERSPECTIVE

BYLINE: The Camp Verde Journal staff

LENGTH: 576  words


When key parts of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act take effect in
2014, you'll have a new way to buy health insurance for yourself, your family or
your small business: the Health Insurance Marketplace.

The marketplace is designed to help you find health insurance that fits your
budget, with less hassle.

Every health insurance plan in the new marketplace will offer comprehensive
coverage from doctors to medications to hospital visits. You can compare all
your insurance options based on price, benefits, quality and other features that
may be important to you, in plain language that makes sense.

You'll know you're getting a quality health plan at a reasonable price, because
there's nothing buried in me fine print.

When you shop at the marketplace, all your costs are stated up front. So you'll
get a clear picture of what you're paying and what you're getting before you
make a choice.

Under the health care law, you and your family also will have new protections.
Health insurance companies can't refuse to cover you, or charge you more just
because you have a chronic or pre-existing condition. They also can't charge
more for women than for men.

Here are three things to keep in mind about the Health Insurance Marketplace:

It's an easier way to shop for health insurance. The Health Insurance
Marketplace simplifies your search for insurance by gathering all your options
in one place. One application, one time, and you and your family can explore
every qualified insurance plan in your area -- including any free or low-cost
insurance programs you may qualify for, such as Medicaid or the Children's
Health Insurance Program.

Most people will be able to get a break on costs. Programs that lower costs are
available for almost everyone. You may be eligible for a free or low-cost plan,
or a new kind of tax credit that lowers your monthly premiums right away. New
rules and expanded programs mean even working families can get help paying for
health insurance at the marketplace. Clear, apples-to-apples comparisons. All
health insurance plans in the marketplace present their price and benefit
information in simple terms you can understand, so you don't have to guess about
your costs.

Starting on Tuesday, Oct. 1, you'll be able to get detailed information about
all the marketplace plans available in your area. You'll also be able to enroll
through our website, at www.HealthCare.gov, or by calling a toll-free phone
line.

You can sign up now to get email or text alerts that will let you know how to
get ready to enroll in the plan of your choice.

If you have difficulty finding a plan that meets your needs and budget, there
will be people available to give you personalized help with your choices. These
helpers aren't associated with any particular plan, and they don't receive any
type of commission, so the help they give you will be completely unbiased.

The marketplace will be much more than any health insurance website you've used
before. Insurance companies will compete for your business on a level and
transparent playing field, with no hidden costs or misleading fine print. You'll
have more choice, more control and more clout when it comes to health insurance.

Marketplace coverage starts in January. David Sayen is Medicare's regional
administrator for Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada and the Pacific Trust
Territories. You can always get answers to your Medicare questions by calling
(800) MEDICARE [(800) 633-4227].

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Guest Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CPV

                      Copyright 2013 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                     Copyright 2013 The Camp Verde Journal


                              92 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Cottonwood Journal Extra (Arizona)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               February 27, 2013

New way to buy health insurance coming;
GUEST PERSPECTIVE

BYLINE: Cottonwood Journal Extra staff

LENGTH: 576  words


When key parts of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act take effect in
2014, you'll have a new way to buy health insurance for yourself, your family or
your small business: the Health Insurance Marketplace.

The marketplace is designed to help you find health insurance that fits your
budget, with less hassle.

Every health insurance plan in the new marketplace will offer comprehensive
coverage from doctors to medications to hospital visits. You can compare all
your insurance options based on price, benefits, quality and other features that
may be important to you, in plain language that makes sense.

You'll know you're getting a quality health plan at a reasonable price, because
there's nothing buried in the fine print.

When you shop at the marketplace, all your costs are stated up front. So you' ll
get a clear picture of what you're paying and what you're getting before you
make a choice.

Under the health care law, you and your family also will have new protections.
Health insurance companies can't refuse to cover you, or charge you more just
because you have a chronic or pre-existing condition. They also can't charge
more for women than for men.

Here are three things to keep in mind about the Health Insurance Marketplace:

It's an easier way to shop for health insurance. The Health Insurance
Marketplace simplifies your search for insurance by gathering all your options
in one place. One application, one time, and you and your family can explore
every qualified insurance plan in your area -- including any free or low-cost
insurance programs you may qualify for, such as Medicaid or the Children's
Health Insurance Program.

Most people will be able to get a break on costs. Programs that lower costs are
available for almost everyone. You may be eligible for a free or low-cost plan,
or a new kind of tax credit that lowers your monthly premiums right away. New
rules and expanded programs mean even working families can get help paying for
health insurance at the marketplace.

Clear, apples-to-apples comparisons. All health insurance plans in the
marketplace present their price and benefit information in simple terms you can
understand, so you don't have to guess about your costs.

Starting on Tuesday, Oct. 1, you'll be able to get detailed information about
all the marketplace plans available in your area. You'll also be able to enroll
through our website, at www.HealthCare.gov, or by calling a toll-free phone
line.

You can sign up now to get email or text alerts that will let you know how to
get ready to enroll in the plan of your choice.

If you have difficulty finding a plan that meets your needs and budget, there
will be people available to give you personalized help with your choices. These
helpers aren't associated with any particular plan, and they don't receive any
type of commission, so the help they give you will be completely unbiased.

The marketplace will be much more than any health insurance website you've used
before. Insurance companies will compete for your business on a level and
transparent playing field, with no hidden costs or misleading fine print. You'll
have more choice, more control and more clout when it comes to health insurance.

Marketplace coverage starts in January.

David Sayen is Medicare's regional administrator for Arizona, California,
Hawaii, Nevada and the Pacific Trust Territories. You can always get answers to
your Medicare questions by calling (800) MEDICARE [(800) 633-4227].

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Guest Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CJX

                      Copyright 2013 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                    Copyright 2013 Cottonwood Journal Extra


                              93 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                             March 13, 2006 Monday

Chamber notes: Marketplace best prescription for controlling health care costs

BYLINE: Bob Burdon

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 813  words


The current paradigm for providing health care coverage to Maryland citizens and
controlling health care costs was challenged in last month's column as being
flawed.

The trend toward a single payer health system for Maryland citizens, known as
The Maryland Citizens' Health Initiative or "Health Care for All," would only
worsen an already imperfect system of access to health care and controlling
costs.

So, what then is the answer? In addressing this question, we need to look at
what happened in 1994 when Maryland altered its health insurance laws.

If we let intellectual honesty be our guide, we cannot help but realize that
removing exclusions for covering pre-existing conditions, without providing
incentives for employers or individuals to acquire appropriate coverage before
they need it, has created an unacceptable abuse of the health insurance system
in Maryland. Employers and individuals are gaming the system by opting in or
out, without penalty, when critical health needs arise.

That abuse, combined with increased health care mandates coming out of the
General Assembly, are two of three large contributors to the double digit
increases in health care cost and premium increases over the past several years.

The other large contributor is the reality that no individual is denied medical
care in the absence of health insurance coverage. Those who are uninsured by
choice, or condition of affordability, receive health care that is ultimately
paid for with taxpayer dollars and higher health insurance premium costs.

Increasingly over the years, a greater portion of the uninsured is comprised of
those who can afford health insurance, but choose not to be covered. Why?
Because the economic value of receiving free health care via the safety net
programs in Maryland outweigh the tax benefits of paying for health insurance
coverage with pretax earnings or earned income tax credits.

Income tax policies in Maryland act as a disincentive for individuals and
employers to acquire health insurance coverage. In essence, the marginal
difference in cost between those who choose the safety net verses those who
acquire health insurance with pretax earnings, manifests itself in increased
health insurance premiums. Doctors and hospitals must still treat those
individuals not covered by insurance and that do not pay out of pocket for the
medical services they receive.

The answer to controlling health care and insurance costs, and giving Maryland
citizens choice and access to the level and variety of health care they desire,
may be realized by adopting the following initiatives:

First, government tax policies must be aligned such that the benefit of
purchasing health insurance with pretax dollars is equal to the value of the
safety net benefits for the uninsured. Such an alignment will encourage many of
those who can afford health insurance to opt into some form of private health
insurance coverage prior to a critical health need arising. The pretax earning
incentives should be independent of income level and tied to the marginal
difference in costs noted above.

Second, government policies and tax law should encourage employers to shift from
determining defined benefits when choosing coverage for their employees, to that
of determining defined contributions to each employee's health insurance costs.
The employee should be empowered to determine what benefits best suit his/her
needs.

Third, health insurance companies must be allowed to assume their former role of
specializing in the business of managing risk, rather than being arbitrators
that ration health care procedures and deny services.

Fourth, insurance for medical services should focus on causality coverage
supplemented by private Health Savings Accounts that are portable when employees
move from one job to the next. The employee should also receive appropriate tax
benefits for supplementing their health care expenses through pretax earnings
deductions into their health savings account.

By shifting the paradigm of how health care costs are covered and taking health
care out of the hands of government policy wonks and putting it back into the
marketplace, consumers of health care services will benefit in many ways.

Insurance premiums will decrease, the rising cost of health care will abate,
individuals will have greater choice in medical services and procedures, and
doctors will be empowered to counsel their patients on treatment options most
appropriate to the diagnosis without interference from a third party trying to
control costs and ration care.

In essence, patients will once again become informed consumers of health care
services in a health care system that is both responsive and affordable for all
Marylanders.

---

Bob Burdon is president and chief executive officer of the Annapolis and Anne
Arundel County Chamber of Commerce. Visit the chamber at
www.annapolischamber.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2006 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                        SUNDAY TELEGRAM (Massachusetts)

                    September 04, 2005 Sunday, ALL EDITIONS

Health insurance negotiations boost city's fiscal health

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; POLITICS AND THE CITY; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1161 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


There was good news on a couple of fronts for the city of Worcester and its
taxpayers last week in regard to City Hall's efforts to rein in the skyrocketing
cost of employee health insurance.

First, another municipal employee union agreed to a new contract in which its
members will be paying more for their health insurance premiums.

The 34-member Public Works Clerks Association ratified a four-year deal on
Thursday that is modeled after the groundbreaking contract Local 378,
International Brotherhood of Police Officers, ratified earlier this year. Over
the course of the agreement, current members of the bargaining unit will pay
more for their health insurance premiums, beginning Jan. 1.

Currently, city employees pay 10 percent to 13 percent of the health insurance
premium costs. Under the new contract, employees who have the Blue Cross Blue
Shield plan will pay 16 percent of the premium costs, while the tab for the
Fallon plan will increase to 14 percent.

Starting July 1, 2006, the DPW clerks will pick up the tab for 20 percent of
their health insurance premium costs under either plan. New employees hired
after Jan. 1 will pay 25 percent of their premium costs.

In return for the health insurance concessions, the DPW clerks will receive wage
hikes: 0.25 percent retroactive to July 1, 2003; 2 percent retroactive to July
1, 2004; 2 percent, effective this past July 1; 1 percent Jan. 1, 2006; 2
percent July 1, 2006, and another 1 percent when all health insurance premiums
for members go to 20 percent; and 1 percent June 30, 2007.

The city also agreed to reclassify 19 positions within the bargaining unit that
will increase total salaries by another $16,805. The retroactive salary
increases and the job reclassifications will cost the city an additional
$91,524.

"It's a win-win deal for both parties," City Manager Michel V. O'Brien said in
an interview Friday. "We as a city are able to get a better control of our
health insurance costs with this bargaining unit, while its members get a very
fair wage package in return."

The public works clerks became the second bargaining unit to agree to a contract
featuring such health insurance concessions. Mr. O'Brien said the city is
actively negotiating with all the other unions and hinted that similar contracts
could be forthcoming in the not too distant future.

Those who have criticized the city manager for his efforts to have municipal
employees carry a greater share of the health insurance burden have complained
that the "little guy" would be hurt the most.

It should be pointed out, however, that the DPW clerks probably best represent
the "little guy" when it comes to what they are paid in comparison to their
fellow municipal employees.

The association is also represented by Local 170 of the Teamsters, a group that
is certainly not considered a pushover by any means.

"They realized that I'm not trying to be vindictive or trying to make our
employees shoulder the burden of our health insurance costs," Mr. O'Brien said.
"They understood that what we offered is a fair and balanced approach that is
good for the membership. They certainly deserve a lot of credit for that."

On another front, Mr. O'Brien also received a measure of vindication for his
efforts to control municipal health insurance costs.

Last week, Moody's Investors Services and Standard & Poor's, two bond-rating
agencies, agreed to maintain the bond ratings they had previously assigned for
Worcester. The city has an A3 rating from Moody's and an A- from Standard &
Poor's.

That was significant, since the bond ratings of several cities and towns in
Massachusetts have been lowered, and other communities are facing the prospects
of such action because of their fiscal conditions.

For the first time, the city also dealt with a third bond-rating agency in
anticipation of issuing $66.4 million in general obligation bonds to finance its
capital improvement program. Fitch Rating Ltd. assigned Worcester an A rating.
Mr. O'Brien said that is equivalent to an A2 from Moody's and an A from Standard
& Poors.

For Worcester taxpayers, that should come as good news, because the high bond
ratings means it will cost the city less to borrow money, especially when it
comes to costly capital improvement projects.

In its analysis, Fitch specifically highlighted the efforts made by the city
administration to rein in municipal health insurance costs.

"Officials recognize the importance of health benefits reform and have
identified initiatives to contain costs in this area," the Fitch report stated.
"Achieving the city's goal of negotiating multiyear contracts and gaining
similar concessions to those attained with the police union will serve as a
long-term credit strength."

Moody's also made note of the city's efforts in its report. It said that ongoing
collective bargaining and untended health care costs could limit further
improvements in Worcester's financial standing.

"The city's financial flexibility may improve with the satisfactory resolution
of these issues without drawing on reserves," Moody's said.

Mr. O'Brien said such arms-length analysis is evidence that Worcester is on the
right track when it comes to health insurance reform. He said the feedback from
the rating agencies clearly affirms all the positive, hard work taking place in
all branches of the city government and throughout the community.

"They have acknowledged that Worcester is taking the necessary and the
appropriate steps to get our fiscal house in order," the manager said.

"Over the long term, these actions will continue to raise our bond rating, which
in turn will lower our bond costs and save Worcester's taxpayers and ratepayers
hundreds of thousands of dollars, if not millions, in taxes and in water and
sewer rates. If we want to reduce the burden on our taxpayers, we need to
contain our health insurance costs."

Mr. O'Brien is quick to credit his bosses, the City Council, for the very
favorable review from the bond rating agencies. He said the council has
demonstrated a very strong resolve to address the health insurance issue, the
likes of which have not been seen at City Hall before.

Indeed, when the council used to talk about containing health insurance costs,
whenever push came to shove, many members often backed down. But the council as
a body has not backed down on the health insurance issue one inch this time
around, and that has given the city manager greater strength at the bargaining
table.

The result is greater fiscal stability for the city.

"It is critical that I seek and implement the reforms I have introduced," Mr.
O'Brien said.

"It is imperative that we stabilize our costs over the long term, with
industry-aligned wages and benefits at the forefront so this city can invest
precious financial resources into expanding our tax base and creating jobs. This
is critical to the long-term sustainability and livability of our city."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              95 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      January 23, 2017 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Average Individual Health Insurance Premiums Increased 99% Since 2013, Year
Before Obamacare, Family Premiums Increased 140%, According to eHealth.com
Shopping Data

LENGTH: 390  words


Jan. 23 -- Today eHealth, Inc. (NASDAQ: EHTH) (eHealth.com), the nation's first
and largest private online health insurance exchange, released an analysis of
individual and family health insurance shopping trends for the first two months
of the 2017 open enrollment period. Open enrollment for 2017 health insurance
plans under the Affordable Care Act (ACA or Obamacare) began on November 1, 2016
and is scheduled to continue through January 31, 2017.

eHealth's analysis provides an aggregated, anonymized examination of individual
and family health insurance premiums and deductibles for plans selected by
eHealth shoppers not receiving government subsidies under the ACA from November
1 through December 31, 2016. It also includes demographic information on
shoppers and a review of individual and family costs previously published by
eHealth since 2008.

This is the latest installment in eHealth's continuing Health Insurance Price
Index reports, which have tracked costs and trends in the self-purchased health
insurance market since 2014. Prior to 2014, eHealth published an annual Cost and
Benefits report, which tracked cost and benefit trends in the self-purchased
health insurance market since 2005.

Prior years' reports are available online:

* 2016 open enrollment period Price Index report

* 2015 open enrollment period Price Index report

* 2014 open enrollment period Price Index report

* 2013 Costs and Benefits Report (includes historic cost data to 2006)

* Previous Costs and Benefits Reports

Individual coverage highlights

* Average individual premium: $393 per month for an individual not receiving
subsidies in the first two months of the 2017 open enrollment period

* In 2013, the year before major Obamacare provisions came into effect, the
average individual premium was $197 per month

* Between 2013 and the first two months of the 2017 open enrollment period,
average individual premiums have increased 99%

Family coverage highlights

* Average family premium: $1,021 per month for a family not receiving subsidies
in the first two months of the 2017 open enrollment period

* In 2013, the year before major Obamacare provisions came into effect, the
average family's premium was $426 per month

* Between the end of 2013 and the first two months of the 2017 open enrollment
period, average family premiums have increased 140%

Source: eHealth

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Janesville Gazette (Wisconsin)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            February 13, 2017 Monday

Janesville School Board to consider health insurance benefits

BYLINE: Catherine W. Idzerda, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 406 words


Feb. 13--JANESVILLE -- School district employees likely will pay more for health
insurance, but how much more is up for debate.

At Tuesday's school board meeting, the board will consider two health insurance
proposals.

The first proposal would require the district to pay 88 percent of the total
cost of insurance per district employee. The second would require the district
to pay 75 percent of the assumed 5 percent health insurance cost increase.

The decisions comes at a time when Gov. Scott Walker has proposed $649 million
in new money for schools, but only if school districts require their employees
to pay 12 percent of their health care costs.

Act 10, the 2011 law that stripped most public employee unions of their
bargaining rights, required that teachers and other public union employees on
the state health insurance plan pay at least 12 percent of the costs. The new
proposal would require teachers and other public union employees to pay at least
12 percent of the health insurance costs, even if they aren't on state
insurance.

Janesville district employees have been paying a smaller percentage, but they
will reach the 12 percent mark during the 2017-2018 school year, Superintendent
Karen Schulte told the Associated Press.

Here's what the two increases will mean for district employees and taxpayers:

Plan one: The district contributes 88 percent of the cost of health insurance
per employee.

Rates would increase between $7 and $9 monthly for the least expensive plan,
which covers the employee only.

Family plan rates would increase between $21 and $29 monthly for the most
expensive plan.

Two other plans, employee/spouse and employee/child or children, would increase
$13 and $24 a month, respectively.

The plan would cost the school district an estimated $10.6 million a year, or
about $389,800 more than this year's plans.

Plan two: The district absorbs 75 of the expected 5 percent health insurance
cost increase.

Rates would increase between $5 and $7 a month for the single employee plan and
between $16 and $24 a month for a family plan.

The employee/spouse and employee/child or children plan would increase $10 and
$17 a month, resepctively.

The plan would cost the district an estimated $10.63 million, or about $432,000
more than this year's plans.

___ (c)2017 The Janesville Gazette (Janesville, Wis.) Visit The Janesville
Gazette (Janesville, Wis.) at www.gazetteextra.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170213-JG-Janesville-School-Board-to-consider-health-insurance
-benefits-20170213

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JG


                     Copyright 2017 The Janesville Gazette


                              97 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           September 27, 2005 Tuesday

Health insurance cost will stay high

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 142 words


THE nation's largest health insurer, Medibank Private, says the cost of health
insurance will not come down but the rate of growth in the cost of premiums will
ease.

Customers expected health insurance to rise no more than the consumer price
index but this was unrealistic, Medibank Private managing director George
Savvides said.

Health insurance costs would not come down as long as the ageing population
demanded more health services.

"We're living in an environment where the cost of health insurance is going up
more than twice CPI, and consumers claim health costs, so there's no way of
avoiding the need to match the growth in healthcare costs," Mr Savvides said
yesterday.

Medibank Private reported a record annual net profit of $130.8 million for
2004-05, more than three times above the previous year's $44.8 million.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              98 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 8, 2009 Sunday

Employers feel the pain as health care costs rise;
Experts advise business owners to shop around to get better rates

BYLINE: By Ben Sutherly Staff Writer

SECTION: SUNDAY B2B; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 458 words


Ouch.

It's been a common reaction among local employers in recent weeks as the cost of
providing health insurance to their employees in 2010 becomes clearer.

Brian Pedtke, whose two Servpro franchises provide cleanup services in Preble
County and northwestern Montgomery County, said his Clayton-based business is
facing a 20 percent hike in health-insurance costs for his 14 employees. "It is
getting to the point where we are having to drop coverage and increase
deductibles just to afford the insurance itself," Pedtke said, whose employees
already pay 50 percent of premiums.

Meanwhile, JatroDiesel, a biodiesel manufacturer based in Miamisburg, is facing
a 23 percent increase in health care costs for its seven employees.

"We did feel trapped," said Diana Barber, who administers JatroDiesel's health
plan.

Among 1,500 Dayton-area employers with 270,000 employees, the average proposed
increase in health-insurance costs for 2010 is 17.4 percent, according to
McGohan Brabender, a Ketteringbased employee benefits broker and consultant.

After negotiations, the actual increase was 6.9 percent for those companies,
said Scott McGohan, a firm partner. That's down slightly from the 7.6 percent
actual hike a year ago.

Many health insurance providers have lost 5 percent to 8 percent of their
membership in the Dayton market, far more than in the past, McGohan said. That's
mostly the result of layoffs and, to a lesser extent, of companies doing away
with health insurance.

For health insurance providers, "maintaining membership is really important,"
McGohan said.

Employers or their representatives can use that to their advantage when
negotiating health care costs. But, he cautioned, if workers as a group are
considered high-risk or highly utilize their employer's health plan, the
insurance companies' capacity to lower those rates diminishes.

Statewide, health-insurance companies are hiking their rates 10 percent to 15
percent, according to the Ohio Department of Insurance.

WellPoint, Anthem's parent, claims the higher cost of health care premiums stems
from advances in medical technology and subsequent increases in utilization,
price inflation for medical services, the high cost of regulatory compliance,
and patient lifestyles.

"We are seeing an uptick in utilization this year over last year," due in part
to uncertainty among some employees about whether they'll lose their job and
health coverage along with it, said Tim Schmalz, regional vice president of
sales for Anthem. "With utilization comes an increase in cost."

While Pedtke's Servpro franchises didn't negotiate costs last year, they'll do
so this year.

"We don't know if they're going to budge or not," he said.

Contact this reporter at (937) 225-7457 or bsutherly@DaytonDailyNews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brian Pedtke, owner of two Servpro franchises, is concerned about the
20 percent cost increase Anthem is passing onto his company. Staff photo by Ty
Greenlees

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              99 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 9, 2009 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

REAL HEALTH-CARE REFORM;
GIVE US A TAX BREAK AND LET US BUY OUR OWN HEALTH INSURANCE

BYLINE: Jack Kelly

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 725 words


The second, third, fourth and fifth most important reasons why private health
insurance costs so much are:

No. 2) Improvements in medicine and medical technology. We've gotten spoiled by
computers and cell phones, which have gotten cheaper as they've gotten better.
This isn't true with most things, and it certainly isn't true with drugs or with
new diagnostic equipment. And because they work so well, people who otherwise
would have died live longer and consume more health care. A Kaiser Family
Foundation paper in 2007 estimated that about half the increase in health-care
costs since 1970 is due to improvements in medical technology.

No. 3) Frivolous lawsuits. Under our current system, plaintiffs can win enormous
judgments against doctors and hospitals on the basis of specious evidence.
According to the consulting firm Towers Perrin, the tort system imposed $252
billion in costs on the U.S. economy in 2007.

These costs are imposed in three ways.

The first is the cost doctors must pay for malpractice insurance, which is
passed on to you whenever you visit the doctor. Obstetrician-gynecologists in
New York pay about $200,000 a year in malpractice insurance premiums. For
neurosurgeons, it's about $300,000.

The second is the cost of litigating medical tort claims, which in 2007 was
$30.4 billion, a 100 percent increase from a decade before.

The third -- and most expensive -- is defensive medicine, ordering tests and
procedures that aren't really needed to guard against a lawsuit. In a 2005
survey by the Journal of the American Medical Association, 93 percent of
high-risk specialists in Pennsylvania admitted to the practice.

These costs would decline sharply if plaintiffs who file frivolous lawsuits were
required to pay the legal costs of defendants found to have done nothing wrong,
as is the practice in most of Europe. But though Democrats are eager to impose
limits on how much doctors may earn, they are unwilling to impose limits on how
much ambulance-chasing lawyers may earn, since trial lawyers are major
contributors to Democratic candidates.

No. 4) Health insurance mandates. State governments require insurers to provide
certain benefits and to include some high-risk patient populations. These
mandates increase the cost of basic health insurance coverage by about 20
percent to nearly 50 percent, depending on the state, according to 2005 estimate
by the Council for Affordable Health Insurance.

No. 5) Cost switching. Medicare and Medicaid don't reimburse doctors and
hospitals for the actual cost of providing health-care services to covered
patients. This causes doctors and hospitals to charge patients with private
insurance more to make up the difference. Milliman, a consulting firm, estimated
consumers paid an additional $89 billion a year in private health insurance
premiums in 2006 and 2007 to compensate for federal underpayments.

But the No. 1 reason why private health insurance costs so much is because it
really isn't insurance at all. It's a baroque form of third-party prepayment.

I have insurance on my car, not because I expect to get in an accident every
week, but so I won't be wiped out financially if I do.

My auto policy doesn't cover oil changes, tune-ups, tire rotation and other
aspects of routine maintenance that I'm expected to take care of myself. If
health insurance were more like that, it would be a lot cheaper.

I cheerfully pay the costs of routine maintenance on my car because I know it
saves me money in the long run. I don't have the same attitude about health
insurance, because it's my company, and not me, that gets most of the bill.

Our reliance on employers to provide health insurance is a product of World War
II. Because of wage controls, companies couldn't offer higher pay to attract
workers. So they offered health care instead.

This has been bad for two reasons. Losing a job becomes a real calamity, because
you lose your health insurance, too. But the bigger reason is because we've lost
the incentive to be smart shoppers when it comes to health care.

Tort reform, a relaxation of health-insurance mandates and fair reimbursement
for Medicare and Medicaid would lower dramatically the cost of private health
insurance. But the most important reform would be to transfer from our employers
to us the tax deduction for health insurance, and the responsibility for
obtaining it.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jack Kelly is a columnist for the Post-Gazette and The (Toledo) Blade
(jkelly@post-gazette.com, 412 263-1476)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              100 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         North Carolina Lawyers Weekly

                                 June 14, 2004

Future health premiums claimed in wreck settlement

BYLINE: Ertel Berry

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 683  words


An Orange County auto accident plaintiff who sought compensation for future
medical bills - and future health insurance premiums - has obtained a $3.25
million settlement.

Recovering the cost of health insurance on top of medical expenses could seem
like a double recovery, but the plaintiffs' attorneys argued that wasn't so,
given the unique facts of the case.

The plaintiff, a 34-year-old office manager, suffered disabling knee, leg and
foot injuries when the SUV she was riding in was hit by a truck that ran a stop
sign.

Despite several orthopedic operations, the plaintiff still faced multiple
surgeries for a knee replacement, follow-up knee procedures and a foot fusion.

But the accident didn't just trigger future medical costs, the plaintiff argued.
The wreck also left her facing prohibitively-expensive health insurance
premiums.

The reason: the defendant's truck hit the plaintiff at a moment when - through
no fault of her own - she didn't have health insurance.

The plaintiff had paid her employer to maintain coverage, but, unbeknownst to
her, the company failed to do that. She had just learned the employer had
declared bankruptcy and was driving to the unemployment office when the
defendant's truck slammed into her.

But for the collision, the plaintiff could have gotten health insurance at a
more reasonable rate, she argued. However, the serious medical problems caused
by the wreck meant she would have to pay exorbitant premiums for coverage.

The plaintiff's experts said future insurance premiums could run as high as
$1,500 monthly - for a present value total of $444,995.

In addition to the future health insurance costs, the plaintiff also claimed:
past and future medical expenses, $438,330; lost wages, $800,962; and loss of
services, $292,634.

Although there was no specific breakdown of damages represented by the $3.25
million settlement, the claim for future health insurance costs played a role,
according to Raleigh attorney Stacy Miller, a lawyer for the plaintiff. Law
partner Robert Zaytoun and Durham lawyer Cole Williams were co-counsel.

"You've got somebody here who thought she had health insurance - but didn't -
and was completely disabled and was the health care provider for her family,"
said Miller. "It's sort of like the rule that you take the plaintiff as you find
them. It certainly wasn't her fault that she became almost uninsurable. "

Even so, Miller was concerned how a jury would view that contention.

"We focus-grouped it twice because we were concerned jurors would ask if getting
medical expenses and health insurance costs would be double-dipping," he said.
"We got strong responses from both groups that said because future health care
costs are increasing, and health care providers are providing significantly less
of the costs, they didn't feel it was double-dipping - as long as the future
medical expenses we asked for were reasonable. I even provided excerpts from the
focus group tapes to the defense so they could see these people saying they
didn't think it was double-dipping. "

However, a claim for future health insurance costs probably wouldn't work
outside the unusual circumstances of the case, according to Miller.

"You can't argue to a jury that the defendant should pay your health insurance
if you never had it," Miller said. "That's not a credible argument. And if you
did have health insurance at the time of the accident, well, then you still have
it. You don't need to ask the defendant for it.

"But we felt under this particular scenario it was certainly fitting. "

One concern the plaintiffs' lawyers had was whether raising the health insurance
issue opened the door to waiving the collateral source rule.

"My response was that we hadn't done that," said Miller. "But if we did, we
would then be entitled to a curative instruction on the Medicaid lien. But it
was always a double-edged sword. "

The case is Barboza v. Names Withheld (Orange County Superior Court; No. 03 CvS
715). The mediated settlement with the defendant truck driver and his employer
was reached May 21.

For the plaintiff's case report of Barboza, see page 22.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            July 13, 2016 Wednesday

No cost increase in Morgan County employee health insurance

BYLINE: Keith Clines, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words


July 13--Morgan County employees are getting a great deal on their health
insurance costs, according to the head of the state association of county
commissioners.

The Morgan County Commission on Tuesday approved an employee health insurance
plan that keeps the employee share of the monthly health insurance premium at
the same price for the sixth straight year.

Sonny Brasfield, executive director of the Association of County Commissioners
of Alabama, said the $167 an employee pays each month for family coverage and
the $64 an employee pays for single coverage shouldn't be taken for granted.

"The employees in Morgan County have a massively good deal," Brasfield said.

The commission approved a contract with Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Alabama to
administer the county's self-insured health insurance program for the new fiscal
year that begins Oct. 1.

The monthly premium for family coverage will remain at $1,200 and at $460 for
single coverage. The county picks up the remainder of the cost not paid by the
employee.

Brasfield said it's unusual for premiums not to increase in consecutive years
considering the state of health insurance in the country.

Commission Chairman Ray Long credited county employees for holding the line on
health insurance costs. He said county leaders met with employees a few years
ago to stress the importance of using their insurance wisely, and the county has
been fortunate that employees have not had any costly catastrophic health
issues.

"It goes back to our employees who use their insurance wisely," he said after
the meeting.

The county has about 400 full-time employees who are offered health care
insurance. There are 126 employees with single coverage and 192 with family
coverage, according to the commission office.

In another employee health matter, the commission renewed the MDLIVE program
that allows employees to call a doctor at any time for minor ailments. The
county pays $3.50 a month per employee for the service. Employees pay nothing.

"This is the third year we've participated," Long said. "We hope we can push
that and get more people to use that. It saves us money."

Brasfield attended Tuesday's meeting to present Long a plaque of appreciation
for serving this year as the president of the Association of County Commissions
of Alabama. Long's term ends Sept. 30.

On another matter, the commission gave District 2 Commissioner Randy Vest
permission to appropriate $28,937 from the Road and Bridge Fund to the Oak Ridge
Volunteer Fire Department. The department will use the money to improve access
from the department building to the community storm shelter located there, Vest
said.

The commission also met in executive session for more than 45 minutes to discuss
pending litigation. County Attorney Bill Shinn and attorney Barney Lovelace
attended the closed-door session.

keith.clines@decaturdaily.com or 256-340-2438. Twitter @DD_KeithClines.

___ (c)2016 The Decatur Daily (Decatur, Ala.) Visit The Decatur Daily (Decatur,
Ala.) at www.decaturdaily.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160713-DD-No-cost-increase-in-Morgan-County-employee-health-insurance
-0713-20160713

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2016 The Decatur Daily


                              102 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2001 by Orange County Bar Association
                              Orange County Lawyer

                                   May, 2001

                           43 Orange County Lawyer 40

LENGTH: 1295 words

COLUMN: FAMILY LAW CORNER: HEALTH INSURANCE REVIEWED

By Comm. Richard G. Vogl

Commissioner Richard G. Vogl is editor of the Family Law Corner.

TEXT:


 [*40]  A LEGISLATIVE CHANGE WHICH BECAME effective on January 1, 2001 requires
that the local child support agency enforcing a child support order must use the
federally mandated National Medical Support Notice, instead of the health
insurance coverage assignment order. This applies when the court has ordered
that a parent must provide health insurance. But California law holds that in
any case in which an amount is set for current support, the court must require
that health insurance coverage for a supported child shall be maintained by
either or both parents if that insurance is available at no cost or at
reasonable cost to the parent.

   It is important to note that the court may order "either or both"--as this is
often over-looked.  [*41]  What is meant by "reasonable cost"? When can the
court refuse to grant such an order? May an obligor parent quash such an order?
Does liability exist if the coverage is not provided?

NOTICE IS NECESSARY.

   Typically, it is the noncustodial parent who is ordered, as a matter of
course, to maintain that insurance. It is Family Code § 3761 which demands that
the court make a medical insurance order. Are lawyers forgetting to argue that
the court has the power to order the custodial parent to maintain the policy?
Isn't it more convenient for the custodial parent to be in charge of which
policy to take, and to be in control of reimbursement claims?

   If the custodial parent resides out of California, is it "reasonable" to
force the California parent to maintain a health insurance policy?

   When application is made for the insurance, there must be written notice of
the intent to seek a health insurance coverage assignment order, and this notice
may be transmitted by first-class mail, postage prepaid, or personally served at
least 15 days before the date of the filing of the application for the order.
But the notice may be provided in the initial pleading, and need not be a
separately filed request. Thus, if overlooked, this issue can slip by the
unaware family law counsel.

WHAT IS "HEALTH INSURANCE"?

   "Health insurance" includes: a) Vision care; b) dental care coverage; and c)
health care services by any type of health care delivery system under which
medical services could be provided to a dependent child of an absent parent.

   It would seem that "health care" does not include standard orthodontia costs.
See IRMO Hanchett, 199 Cal.App.3d 937. Likewise, the law is not clear as to
whether certain counseling must be covered.

WHAT IS "REASONABLE COST"?

   Our law provides that health insurance coverage is presumed to be reasonable
in cost if it is employment-related group health insurance or other group health
insurance, regardless of the service delivery mechanism. This presumption,
however, is rebuttable.

   The law provides that the cost is unreasonable if it exceeds 50% of the
obligor's disposable income. See § 706.052 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Once
in place, keeping the child support  [*42]  agency informed of changes is
mandated. The child support orders must include a provision requiring the child
support obligor to keep the agency informed of whether the obligor has health
insurance coverage at reasonable cost and, if so, the health insurance policy
information.

   What is good cause to deny the order?

   It is clear that Family Code § 3761 provides that the court shall order the
person providing health insurance to the obligor, to enroll the supported child
in the health insurance plan available to the obligor through the employer
unless the court makes a finding of good cause for not making the order.

   If the court determines that the cost of health insurance coverage is not
reasonable, the court shall state its reasons on the record.

   Good cause for not making a health insurance coverage assignment order is
limited to only one reason: the court must find that the health insurance
coverage assignment order would cause an extraordinary hardship to the obligor,
and in that case the court must specify the nature of the extraordinary hardship
and, whenever possible, a date by which the obligor shall obtain health
insurance coverage or be subject to a health insurance coverage assignment. See
Family Code § 3762.

   The obligated parent may make a motion to quash a health insurance coverage
assignment order if the order is unreasonable. The code suggests these grounds:
The amount to be withheld for premiums is greater than 50% of his or her
disposable earnings (see Code of Civil Procedure § 706.052); the amount of the
increased premium is unreasonable; the alleged obligor is not the obligor from
whom health insurance coverage is due; the child is or will be otherwise
provided health care coverage; the employer's choice of coverage is
inappropriate.

   Thus, where a California resident is being asked to maintain a California
policy where the children reside in another state, it may be possible to argue
that the employer's choice of coverage is inappropriate.

TIME LIMITS

   The notice of motion to quash the assignment order, including the required
declaration, must be filed with the court issuing the assignment order within 15
days after delivery of a copy of the order to the obligor parent. See Family
Code § 3765.

 [*43]  WHAT IF IT IS NOT AVAILABLE?

   If the court determines that health insurance coverage is not available at no
or reasonable cost, the court's order for support must contain a provision that
specifies that health insurance coverage shall be obtained if it becomes
available at no or reasonable cost. Upon health insurance coverage becoming
available to a parent, the parent must apply for that coverage.

   So shouldn't the custodial parent seek an order for some kind of continuous
reporting by the noncustodial parent as to whether or not the policy is
available?

EMPLOYER DUTIES

   In addition to covering the child, an employer must do all of the following:
a) notify the applicant for the assignment order or notice of assignment of the
commencement date of the coverage of the child; b) provide evidence of coverage
and any information necessary for the child to obtain benefits through the
coverage to both parents or the person having custody of the child and to the
child support agency when requested; c) upon request, provide all forms and
other documentation necessary for the purpose of submitting claims to the
insurance carrier which the employer or other person providing health insurance
usually provides to insureds. See Family Code § 3767.

   Yet careful attorneys have long been demanding copies of the policies, copies
of the care provider doctors and copies of pre-signed claim forms.

   If the employer willfully fails to comply with a valid health insurance
coverage assignment order entered and served on the employer, then they shall be
liable for the amount incurred in health care services that would otherwise have
been covered under the insurance policy, and may further be charged with
contempt of court.

   No employer may use a health insurance coverage assignment order as grounds
for refusing to hire a person or for discharging or taking disciplinary action
against an employee. An employer who violates this law may be assessed a civil
penalty of a maximum of $ 500.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Family LawChild SupportGeneral OverviewFamily LawDelinquency & DependencyGeneral
OverviewInsurance LawIndustry RegulationRatesSupporting Documentation


                              103 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Town tackles health plans // Insurance for part-time elected officials
questioned

BYLINE: Ellie Oleson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1082 words


At his second selectmen's meeting, newly elected Oxford Selectman Michael Voas
brought up a rarely discussed, and little known, sacred cow that costs taxpayers
in several communities thousands of dollars annually.

Mr. Voas does not think town taxpayers should foot the health insurance bill for
part-time elected officials. The policy will be discussed at tonight's board
meeting.Mr. Voas said selectmen's policy allows any compensated elected official
to have town insurance. The chairman of the Board of Selectmen receives $1,100
per year; other selectmen get $1,000 per year; and the moderator receives $200
per year, making all six eligible for health insurance.

"Six people could cost us $100,000 a year, if they all signed up," Mr. Voas
said.

Town records in Oxford show that the annual premiums on individual plans range
from $7,282 to $9,126, and family plans cost $18,935 to $23,564. An employee or
elected official who started work before July 1, 2006, pays 20 percent of that
cost, while anyone hired or elected after that date pays 25 percent.

Two Oxford selectmen, Jennie L. Caissie and Dennis E. Lamarche, and the town
moderator, Russell C. Rheault, said they are on the town's insurance. Ms.
Caissie and Mr. Rheault have individual plans through the town.

Oxford Selectman John G. Saad, who does not have town insurance, said, "This has
been the town's policy since long before I joined the board. It's always been a
benefit. Back then, health insurance wasn't as costly as it is now."

Ms. Caissie, a member of the Governor's Council and a lawyer with a small law
firm in Southbridge, said, "I will be happy to tell anyone that I get town
health insurance. A selectman's seat is not a volunteer position. I put in the
time and work as hard as I can for this town, and I accepted a benefit that was
offered. I didn't even know insurance was available when I first ran."

Mr. Voas said health insurance is offered to elected officials at the will of
selectmen. He said he would "absolutely not take it myself." And he added that
"what we do is not worth $16,000 per year of taxpayers' money. It is an honor to
serve."

Oxford is not the only town to offer this benefit, though many communities have
opted out of the perk.

According to the Massachusetts Department of Revenue, state law requires that
all town employees, elected or not, who work 20 hours or more per week must be
offered health insurance, but a town or city "may, at its discretion, offer
health insurance to elected officials who work less than 20 hours per week."

In Worcester, elected city councilors and school committee members are eligible
for city health insurance. An employee of the treasurer's office said six of
those officials take advantage of the benefit. A worker there, however, would
not release the names of elected officials receiving health insurance benefits.

Charlton, Paxton and Northbridge once offered health insurance to part-time
elected officials, but no longer do because of the high cost of health insurance
. Webster does not offer the perk, nor does Millbury.

James M. Kreidler Jr., town manager of Winchendon, said, "We do not now, and as
far as I'm concerned, we will never offer town health insurance to part-time
elected officials."

Auburn does offer health insurance to part-time elected officials who are paid.
This means selectmen, Board of Health members and the town moderator, who
receives $296 per year, are eligible. In the past, elected officials have taken
town insurance, but "no currently serving elected officials are on town
insurance, though one selectperson may start town insurance as of July 1," said
Debra A. Dubois in Auburn's Human Resources Department.

The assistant town manager in Auburn, Edward J. Kazanovicz, said the cost of
town insurance varies, depending on when an employee or official was hired or
elected and which plan is chosen. The total annual premium for an individual
plan ranges from $7,761 to $9,834, and a family plan costs $19,707 to $25,050.
Active employees hired before Nov. 8, 2004, pay 10 percent of the cost of
insurance for an individual policy, and all other workers pay 24 percent.
Retirees pay 20 percent.

In Holden, selectmen's records show that selectmen and the moderator are
eligible for town insurance, but only one elected official takes town health
insurance.

In 2007, Lunenburg had two selectmen and two assessors on town health insurance,
at a cost of about $40,000 per year. The Stipend Review Committee recommended
stopping the benefit and ending stipends for elected officials. Selectmen voted
to end the benefit, according to Laura Dunbar Williams, chief administrative
assistant.

Upton selectmen voted in 2004 to make compensated elected officials eligible for
town insurance, but town meeting refused to approve the plan, even though
participating officials would have had to pay 100 percent of their premiums.
Town Manager Blythe Robinson said no health insurance is being offered to
elected, part-time officials in that town.

In 1999, Spencer selectmen voted 3-2 to allow part-time elected officials to be
covered by town health insurance, but that vote was quickly overturned. Spencer
does not offer health insurance to any part-time employees, elected or not.

Westminster paid a portion of part-time elected officials' health insurance
until 2005, but does not offer the benefit today.

Shrewsbury offers health insurance to selectmen, but none is on town insurance,
except one who has town coverage through his wife, a town employee.

In 1993, West Brookfield selectmen voted to grandfather in elected officials and
part-time employees on the town's health plan, which paid 75 percent of health
insurance costs. According to Johanna Barry, executive secretary, the town still
pays health insurance for "a few of these grandfathered employees." She said any
part-time elected officials who want town insurance would have to pay "100
percent of costs plus administration fees," though none is on town insurance.

Dudley selectmen voted to remove part-time elected officials and employees from
the town's health insurance policy in 1994, reportedly saving the town more than
$100,000 per year.

Mr. Voas said he would like Oxford to join the communities that have eliminated
the costly benefit. "We need to lead by example. We have many volunteers who
work very hard and are not compensated one dime. I am not after any individual.
This is a good-faith effort to save the town money. These are hard times. That
money is needed elsewhere."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At his second selectmen's meeting, newly elected Oxford Selectman
Michael Voas brought up a rarely discussed, and little known, sacred cow that
costs taxpayers in several communities thousands of dollars annually.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                       August 24, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Health Insurance Snapshot: eHealth Publishes Data on Average Costs, Common
Qualifying Life Events for Month of July

LENGTH: 418  words


Aug. 24 -- Today eHealth, Inc. (NASDAQ: EHTH - eHealth.com), the nation's first
and largest private online health insurance marketplace, published an updated
snapshot of the individually-purchased health insurance market outside of the
nationwide open enrollment period. Highlights include average premiums and
deductibles as well as the most common qualifying life events cited by consumers
allowing them to purchase coverage outside of open enrollment.

Information published by eHealth today reflects trends and costs among consumers
shopping at eHealth.com in the month of July 2015. It does not reflect average
costs among shoppers utilizing government subsidies to help pay for premiums.

How Much Were Consumers Paying for Health Insurance On Average in July1?

Disclaimer: The table has been omitted (The document can be viewed at
http://news.ehealthinsurance.com/news/health-insurance
-snapshot:-ehealth-publishes-data-on-average-costs
-and-common-qualifying-life-events-for-the-month-of-july-2015).

For more information on average health insurance costs, refer to eHealth's Price
Index.

What Kinds of Plans Are Consumers Selecting?

In the month of July 2015, eHealth shoppers selected plans in specific
categories as shown2:

Disclaimer: The table has been omitted (The document can be viewed at
http://news.ehealthinsurance.com/news/health-insurance
-snapshot:-ehealth-publishes-data-on-average-costs
-and-common-qualifying-life-events-for-the-month-of-july-2015).

Qualifying Life Events: Why Are Consumers Shopping for New Coverage?

Outside of open enrollment, eHealth shoppers have been asked to indicate whether
or not they have experienced a qualifying life event making them eligible to
enroll in major medical coverage. In the month of July 2015, eHealth customers
claimed qualifying life events as shown3:

Disclaimer: The table has been omitted (The document can be viewed at
http://news.ehealthinsurance.com/news/health-insurance
-snapshot:-ehealth-publishes-data-on-average-costs
-and-common-qualifying-life-events-for-the-month-of-july-2015).

Of those who selected "other," many indicated life changes that may have been
legitimate qualifying events while others reported personal challenges or life
changes which did not always meet the law's criteria for qualifying events.

This document has footnotes and they may be found at:
(http://news.ehealthinsurance.com/news/health-insurance
-snapshot:-ehealth-publishes-data-on-average-costs
-and-common-qualifying-life-events-for-the-month-of-july-2015).

Source: eHealth

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday

Young and healthy needed;
Health insurance

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 342 words


The cost of private health insurance has soared - doubling in the past five
years - and the number of people with health cover has sharply declined. Since
2008 as the economic downturn took its toll, health insurance premiums rose and
some 300,000 have opted out and dropped their cover. Rising unemployment,
declining real incomes and higher premiums all contributed in some measure to
making health insurance less affordable. In particular, with far fewer younger
people paying into a community based health insurance system - where subscribers
pay the same premium for the same benefit package, regardless of their age, or
medical condition - insurers have become increasingly reliant on their older
customers.

However, as the medical needs of the latter group are also greater, consequently
they make more claims, which raise the cost of health insurance. In order to
keep overall costs down the insurance market needs a larger and more diverse
pool of subscribers.

Specifically, it needs more younger, healthier and therefore more profitable,
subscribers to broaden the cost base of the insurers. The introduction of
Lifetime Community Rating (LCR) from tomorrow is designed to achieve that.

That is the deadline set for those  over 34 to take out health insurance, or
else face a higher loading on their policy when they do sign up. And the longer
they delay in doing so, the higher the age-related surcharge they must pay when
they do.

This surcharge increases by 2 per cent for each year over the initial age
threshold. So a EUR 1,000 policy acquired at age 34 would from May 1st cost
someone aged 50, EUR 1,320 to take out. However, unless the introduction of LCR
succeeds in attracting many younger subscribers, the cost of private health
insurance will continue to rise and the future of this market will be called
into question.

Given the uncertainties that continue to surround the introduction of universal
health insurance, it is important that the introduction of the LCR system
succeeds  in stabilising the private health insurance market.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 24, 2006 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE MYTH OF UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE;
THE GOVERNMENT WOULD INSURE YOUR HEALTH BADLY. KEEP THE EMPLOYER-BASED SYSTEM,
WITH LOW-INCOME TAX CREDITS

BYLINE: Doug Moore

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 759 words


Forty-six million "uninsured" Americans is the figure used by many interest
groups that advocate universal health care. What these groups don't tell you is
that if you remove those Americans who were uninsured for only a short time
(less than three months), those who have access to employer-sponsored coverage
but don't enroll due to cost, those who have access to government programs
(Medicaid, State Children's Health Insurance Program, etc.) but don't enroll,
and those who can afford coverage (household incomes over $50,000) but
deliberately choose to go uninsured, the number drops to about 10 million.

Despite this deliberate overinflation of the facts, it remains a laudable and
important goal to reduce the number of uninsured. Tax credits for lower-income
individuals, however, are the best method for achieving this goal -- not
universal health care.

These credits could be provided directly to individuals for the purchase of
coverage in the individual health insurance market or provided through employers
who sponsor group health insurance coverage. The tax credit would be made
available in advance so it could be applied directly to the insurance premium
when due.

The tax-credit approach has been dismissed by some as cumbersome and confusing.
But for proof that this type of system can work, look at the HIPP program in
place today in Pennsylvania. HIPP (Health Insurance Premium Payment) reimburses
employers for the cost of health insurance coverage for low-income employees who
have someone in their household who qualifies for Medicaid. The Trade Assistance
Act of 2002 is also an example of how this approach can and does work but on a
national level.

Many Americans believe that a single-payer system will solve the problems with
our health-care system. They are wrong.

A single-payer system would guarantee that health-care services need to be
rationed to control costs. Affluent Americans would buy access to health-care
services that would be out of reach to lower-income Americans. Reimbursements to
providers will decrease because the government is controlling the purse strings,
causing fewer physicians to practice and the quality of care to decline. Our tax
burden will grow and both employers and employees will have to pick up the tab.

Single-payer advocates like to talk about the supposed low administrative costs
of Medicare and how universal coverage will be much more efficient. What they
don't tell you is that their figures ignore the administrative costs transferred
to the private insurers (such as Highmark, HealthAmerica and UPMC Health Plan)
who provide the vast majority of Medicare coverage through managed care
products. When this is taken into account, Medicare does not run much more
efficiently than any private sector health insurance program.

The employer-based system of health insurance delivery that serves the vast
majority of Americans has worked incredibly well. It continues to provide the
best vehicle for delivering health insurance to Americans today and in the years
to come.

Let's face it, employers are going to pay a significant share of health
insurance costs whether or not they are buying the insurance themselves or
financing a single-payer program via taxation. At least with our present system
there is a modicum of competition that creates product innovation and positively
influences rates. Under a single-payer system this goes away.

The employer-based system maintains other significant advantages as well.
Americans spend the majority of their productive days at work, making it the
ideal location to communicate information on health insurance. More important,
however, is that at the workplace we have our best chance to introduce employees
to health promotion and disease prevention programs. These are the key to
reducing health insurance costs.

The No. 1 reason that health insurance costs are so high is that we use too much
health care.

We use too much health care because, while we might be the "richest country in
the world," Americans are incredibly irresponsible when it comes to caring for
our health. Well-researched estimates put the percentage of health-care costs
directly attributable to negative lifestyle choices such as obesity, smoking and
poor nutrition at over 50 percent.

Without programs that encourage and motivate employees to change their lifestyle
this problem will only get worse. Unfortunately, this solution seems too tough
for many to face. However, if we don't get serious about addressing it soon it
will overwhelm us, no matter who is paying the bill.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Doug Moore, an employee benefits consultant, is an agency principal at
Seubert & Associates. He is legislative chair of the Pittsburgh chapter of the
National Association of Health Underwriters.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              107 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           February 15, 1994, Tuesday

HEALTH-CARE COSTS Meaningful health-care reform doesn't require a huge new tax

BYLINE: G. C. Woodson, M.D.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 9

LENGTH: 644 words


In my opinion, the most critical health-care challenge facing America today is
to guarantee access to quality medical care at a reasonable cost for all of our
people. While the Clinton plan will help improve access, my assessment is that
it will sharply limit consumer choice, ultimately lead to rationing of health
care, cost more for lower quality care, and require significantly higher taxes
to fund. Many of the plan's laudable goals can be accomplished without causing
these unpleasant consequences.

The fastest and simplest way to achieve universal access is by changing the way
we regulate the insurance industry: Require health insurance companies to employ
community rating and prohibit them from turning anyone down regardless of their
age or health history; define a benefits package that represents the minimum
health care needed by families (people who want a more generous plan with richer
benefits should be free to pay more and get it); require that health insurers
offer policies that meet the minimum standards, but give them the freedom to
offer more generous and expensive plans. This allows insurance companies to
compete on the basis of price, benefits, service and quality.

Instead of making employer buy insurance, as proposed in the Clinton plan,
mandate that each of us buy our own. The money companies now pay for employees'
health insurance would instead be given to us as higher income to be used to buy
our own health coverage. This way our insurance is not tied to our job.
Eliminating the tax deduction for health insurance premiums and requiring that
we pay for our own insurance will place the full cost squarely on the consumer's
shoulders and help make us better health-care consumers. Insurance copayments
and deductibles should be retained because they help to keep health-care
insurance premium costs down and, as long as they are not too high, do not keep
patients from seeking needed care.

These insurance reforms would bring most of the 38.5 million uninsured back into
the system. They would also help to lower the average cost of health insurance
premiums by reducing the cost the insured now pay for caring for the uninsured.
Providing the working poor with a government voucher which could be used only to
purchase health insurance would help them obtain basic coverage.

Means-testing of the Medicare program for the elderly could save billions being
transferred to care for of well-off seniors. The savings from means-testing
Medicare and ending the tax deductibility of health- care insurance would more
than offset the cost of providing government health insurance vouchers to the
working poor.

If the Clinton plan passes, it's a good bet that the demand for health-care
services will grow rapidly and costs will soar. It calls for members of each
health alliance with a job to pay the costs for themselves and for those who
can't pay for their own insurance. This is going to be very expensive and is why
the premiums most companies and employees will be required to pay to the health
alliances will be more than they pay now.

The way the Clinton plan is structured, consumers will have little or no
incentive to be frugal. It is likely that they will pressure doctors for more
and more care. Inevitably, health-care spending will rise above predetermined
government ceilings, triggering rationing of medical care. Once rationing is
imposed, politicians will face irresistible pressure either to raise taxes or
increase deficit spending to satisfy voters' demand for health care.

While our present system has major problems and needs change, it is working and
working well for most people. Let's not destroy what is good about our present
system while trying to fix what needs to be changed.

Dr. Grattan C. Woodson,a specialist in osteoporosis, is directorof The Bone
Disorders Center in Decatur.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH940480096

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              108 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 2, 2016 Saturday

High costs dull health cover appeal: Survey

SECTION: HEALTH NEWS

LENGTH: 320 words


Non-affordability is turning out to be a major deterrent in purchase of health
insurance despite high awareness of the rising cost of treatment and about the
incidence of critical illnesses. This also results in many owning health
insurance policies dropping out at the time of renewal. According to a survey
conducted by Future Generali Insurance, customers do understand that healthcare
costs have risen. A majority of the respondents in the poll feel that healthcare
expenditure is growing at a faster clip than household income.

Also, over 70% of the respondents know of a family member who received treatment
on account of a critical illness. Yet, when it comes to buying health insurance,
many continue to be deterred by the costs. Among youngsters in the age group
18-25, around 42% did not buy health insurance because of the high premium
rates. In the age group 26-35, 64% of those polled said that the premium was
expensive. In this age group, 19% have bought health insurance and have let
their policy lapse because of higher rates. Among older people, over half of
those polled said that they do not buy health insurance because of the cost.

The inability to control medical inflation is resulting in the cost of health
insurance rising every three years. This is a double whammy for the buyer as
rates in any case go up with age. As a result, many low-income policyholders are
dropping out.

What exposes Indians further to health risks is the lack of fitness regime and a
tendency to avoid routine checks and diagnostics unless there is a medical
emergency. The survey shows that a third of youngsters (below 25 years) do not
exercise while another third go for walks and the rest either engage in brisk
walking or go for other kinds of exercises.

In the age group 26-35, 40% of the respondents said that they do not undertake
any kind of exercise and only 44% took regular walks.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Free Press (Kinstin, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday

EDITORIAL: Health insurance mandate will drive costs up

BYLINE: The Free Press, Kinston, N.C.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 433 words


Jul. 8--We've never been all that enthused over the government mandating
specific insurance coverage. Nor are we all that excited about a bill, which
could soon go to Gov. Mike Easley for his signature, that would require
businesses to include mental illness in their health insurance coverage
plans.The state House and Senate have approved differing versions of what's
known as a "mental health parity" bill, designed to require businesses to
provide equal insurance coverage for mental and physical health diseases.

The House version covers a broader range of mental illnesses, but exempts many
smaller businesses from the mandate. The Senate version covers a limited number
of mental illnesses, but doesn't include the small-business exemption. Neither
requires coverage for drug and alcohol abuse treatment.

Business owners and operators, as they prepare their budgets for upcoming years,
usually have to take into account the escalating cost of health care. Some
businesses have been able to continue paying the full health insurance premiums
of their employees while others have passed on increased costs to those
employees.

Yet others find insurance premiums unaffordable and end up not covering their
employees at all.

Mandates cost money. If the state is going to mandate coverage, someone is going
to have to pay.

Opponents of the mandate say the increased costs could mean that health
insurance is no longer affordable for some businesses. Proponents say that the
increase won't be substantial.

Nevertheless, the new mandate, along with other health care cost pressures, will
inevitably result in higher insurance premiums.

That will mean a higher cost for businesses, increased premium costs to
employees, higher co-payments or, in some cases, decisions by some businesses to
discontinue health insurance coverage. This well-intentioned program could, in
the end, mean higher costs and fewer overall benefits

Businesses can already include mental health coverage in their employee benefit
packages. Some do so, although the benefits may be limited.

Government mandates are generally not a good idea. The call for mental health
parity is a mandate that the General Assembly should reject.

To see more of The Free Press or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.kinston.com/. Copyright (c) 2007, The Free Press, Kinston, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070708-KI-EDITORIAL-Health-insurance-mandate-will-drive-costs-up-0708

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KI


                  Copyright 2007 The Free Press, Kinstin, N.C.


                              110 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             March 21, 2011 Monday
                              Correction Appended

Police to pay more for coverage;
Health cost hike pairs with raises

BYLINE: Kim Ring, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: SPENCER


Police have agreed to increase their contributions to health insurance by 27.5
percent over the next three years. (SEE PUBLISHED CORRECTION)

Officers will also receive cost-of-living increases in the second and third
years of the contract. The contract was ratified by members of Massachusetts
C.O.P. Local 175 late last week after selectmen signed the pact March 14.

In the first year, officers will begin paying 25 percent of their health
insurance, up 2.5 percent for most officers. There is no cost-of-living raise
that year. In year two, they will pay 30 percent of their health insurance and
will earn a 2 percent cost-of-living allowance.

The final year will see officers paying 40 percent of their health insurance and
receiving a 3 percent raise.

As of July 1, officers will also pay 40 percent of their dental insurance plan,
as well. The contract also adds an additional step for officers and sergeants.

"With everything going on with the economy, I think it's a fair contract," Union
President James J. Murray said. "Our concern was keeping the level of services.
We're still understaffed but I think each member of the association looked at
this and said, `Where do I want to be?'"

Officer Murray said he was also concerned about preserving jobs in the
department, and making concessions helped avoid any layoffs.

Officers will continue to receive so-called Quinn Bill incentives, which
increase their pay by 10 percent for an associate's degree, 20 percent for a
bachelor's degree and 25 percent for a master's degree. But new officers will
receive less.

There are also longevity bonuses.

But despite those benefits, officers will likely see their take-home pay
decrease in the first year because of the additional health insurance costs.

Officer Murray said he's hoping the town will start to look at ways to cut
health insurance costs for retirees, and said he'd rather pay more for the
benefit while he's working.

"Retirees are on a fixed income," he said. "I'm hoping the town will be able to
look at that and do something to help them."

Selectmen called the contract "unprecedented" and said shifting the cost of
health care will allow the town to use the money saved to maintain services in
other areas and avoid layoffs.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2011



CORRECTION: The following correction was published March 22, 2011:

SPENCER - Police have agreed to increase contributions to their health insurance
by 17.5 percent over the next three years. Because of a reporter's error, the
percentage of the increase was incorrect in yesterday's Telegram & Gazette.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         North Carolina Lawyers Weekly

                                 June 14, 2004

Verdicts and Settlements June 14, 2004: N.C. auto accident suit settles for
$3.25M

BYLINE: Ertel Berry

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1201  words


An Orange County auto accident plaintiff who sought compensation for future
medical bills - and future health insurance premiums - has obtained a $3.25
million settlement.

Recovering the cost of health insurance on top of medical expenses could seem
like a double recovery, but the plaintiffs' attorneys argued that wasn't so,
given the unique facts of the case.

The plaintiff, a 34-year-old office manager, suffered disabling knee, leg and
foot injuries when the SUV she was riding in was hit by a truck that ran a stop
sign.

Despite several orthopedic operations, the plaintiff still faced multiple
surgeries for a knee replacement, follow-up knee procedures and a foot fusion.

But the accident didn't just trigger future medical costs, the plaintiff argued.
The wreck also left her facing prohibitively-expensive health insurance
premiums.

The reason: the defendant's truck hit the plaintiff at a moment when - through
no fault of her own - she didn't have health insurance.

The plaintiff had paid her employer to maintain coverage, but, unbeknownst to
her, the company failed to do that. She had just learned the employer had
declared bankruptcy and was driving to the unemployment office when the
defendant's truck slammed into her.

But for the collision, the plaintiff could have gotten health insurance at a
more reasonable rate, she argued. However, the serious medical problems caused
by the wreck meant she would have to pay exorbitant premiums for coverage.

The plaintiff's experts said future insurance premiums could run as high as
$1,500 monthly - for a present value total of $444,995.

In addition to the future health insurance costs, the plaintiff also claimed:
past and future medical expenses, $438,330; lost wages, $800,962; and loss of
services, $292,634.

Although there was no specific breakdown of damages represented by the $3.25
million settlement, the claim for future health insurance costs played a role,
according to Raleigh attorney Stacy Miller, a lawyer for the plaintiff. Law
partner Robert Zaytoun and Durham lawyer Cole Williams were co-counsel.

"You've got somebody here who thought she had health insurance - but didn't -
and was completely disabled and was the health care provider for her family,"
said Miller. "It's sort of like the rule that you take the plaintiff as you find
them. It certainly wasn't her fault that she became almost uninsurable. "

Even so, Miller was concerned how a jury would view that contention.

"We focus-grouped it twice because we were concerned jurors would ask if getting
medical expenses and health insurance costs would be double-dipping," he said.
"We got strong responses from both groups that said because future health care
costs are increasing, and health care providers are providing significantly less
of the costs, they didn't feel it was double-dipping - as long as the future
medical expenses we asked for were reasonable. I even provided excerpts from the
focus group tapes to the defense so they could see these people saying they
didn't think it was double-dipping. "

However, a claim for future health insurance costs probably wouldn't work
outside the unusual circumstances of the case, according to Miller.

"You can't argue to a jury that the defendant should pay your health insurance
if you never had it," Miller said. "That's not a credible argument. And if you
did have health insurance at the time of the accident, well, then you still have
it. You don't need to ask the defendant for it.

"But we felt under this particular scenario it was certainly fitting. "

One concern the plaintiffs' lawyers had was whether raising the health insurance
issue opened the door to waiving the collateral source rule.

"My response was that we hadn't done that," said Miller. "But if we did, we
would then be entitled to a curative instruction on the Medicaid lien. But it
was always a double-edged sword. "

The case is Barboza v. Names Withheld (Orange County Superior Court; No. 03 CvS
715). The mediated settlement with the defendant truck driver and his employer
was reached May 21.

SETTLEMENT REPORT

[NOTE: The following information was provided by the counsel for the winning
party and represents the attorney's characterization of the case.]

Plaintff was injured when Defendant truck driver ran a stop sign and collided
with Plaintiff. Plaintiff was a front seat passenger in an SUV and the Defendant
truck driver was driving a 23,000 pound delivery truck. The orthopedic injuries
required insertion of a rod to the right femur, plates and screws to the tibia
plateau fracture, and multiple internal fixators and an external fixator to the
left foot. Plaintiff endured five surgeries to accomplish reconstruction of her
lower extremities. Plaintiff was unable to walk and was confined to a wheelchair
for more than five months. Plaintiff will need multiple future surgeries for
knee replacement, revision of knee replacement, and fusion surgery to the left
foot. The Plaintiff is a thirty-four-year old female and is declared permanently
disabled pending the outcome of her future surgeries.

On the day of the injury, Plaintiff was traveling to the Orange County
Unemployment Office after arriving at her job to find her company had closed its
doors and filed bankruptcy. Previously, Plaintiff had agreed with the employer
to allow employer to withhold wages to pay for Plaintiff's health insurance.
Although wages were withheld, Plaintiff's employer failed to pay premiums for
Plaintiff's health insurance. Plaintiff contends she is now uninsurable or that
the cost to purchase health insurance for her is prohibitive. Plaintiff employed
health insurance consultants who concluded that due to her physical condition
and future surgeries the projected cost of her health insurance premiums was
$1,500 per month. Plaintiff's counsel believes that this category of special
damages is often overlooked and should be investigated in the appropriate case.
As a result, Plaintiff claims the present day value figure of $444,995 special
damages for health insurance.

Plaintiff filed a complaint in Orange County, alleging negligence of the
Defendant driver and the Defendant Corporation employer over failing to stop at
a duly erected stop sign.

Type of Action: Personal injury/negligence

Name of Case: Barboza v. (Names withheld)

Court/County: Orange County Superior Court

Case No.: 03 CvS 715

Tried Before: Mediation

Name of Mediator: Richard T. Boyette of Cranfill, Sumner & Hertzog, LLP

Special Damages: Plaintiff's medical bills were $232,530 for past medical
expenses and $205,800 for future medical expenses, totaling $438,330 for total
medicals. Plaintiff also submitted a loss wage figure in the amount of $800,962
and a figure for lost services in the amount of $292,634.

Verdict/Settlement: Settlement

Amount: $3,250,000

Verdict Date: May 21, 2004

Demand: n/a

Offer: n/a

Experts: n/a

Insurer: n/a

Injuries Alleged: Right femur fracture, left tibia plateau fracture, crushed
fracture to left foot, right wrist fracture, as well as multiple cuts and
bruises

Plaintiff's attorneys: W. Stacy Miller II and Robert E. Zaytoun of Zaytoun &
Miller, PLLC, Raleigh; Cole Williams of the Law Offices of Norman Cole Williams

Person Submitting: Susan Blazier, Zaytoun & Miller

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2004 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 12, 2016 Tuesday

BRIEF: No health insurance cost increase for Morgan County employees

BYLINE: Keith Clines, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 182 words


July 12--The Morgan County Commission voted this morning to renew the county
employees' health insurance plan with no cost increase to employees for the
sixth straight year.

An employee with single coverage will pay $64 of a $460 monthly premium with the
county paying the remainder of the cost, according to the contract. An employee
with family coverage will pay $167 of the $1,200 monthly premium with the county
paying the rest.

Commission Chairman Ray Long credited county employees for holding the line on
health insurance costs.

"It goes back to our employees who use their insurance wisely," he said after
the meeting.

The commission renewed a contract with Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Alabama to
administer the county's health insurance program for fiscal 2017, which begins
Oct. 1. The county is self-insured. It pays Blue Cross/Blue Shield to administer
the program.

keith.clines@decaturdaily.com or 256-340-2438. Twitter @DD_KeithClines.

___ (c)2016 The Decatur Daily (Decatur, Ala.) Visit The Decatur Daily (Decatur,
Ala.) at www.decaturdaily.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160712-DD-BRF-No-health-insurance-cost
-increase-for-Morgan-County-employees-0712-20160712

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2016 The Decatur Daily


                              113 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday

Rendell's Rx for Penna.? Don't buy it Under the governor's scheme, neither
health care nor health insurance will ever become reasonably priced.

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA EDITORIAL; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 837 words


By Matthew J. Brouillette

To extend health insurance to 767,000 uninsured Pennsylvanians, Gov. Rendell
wants to increase taxes on employers, tobacco users and others. The full costs
have yet to be quantified, but they are sure to be underestimated, like all
other government-run health-care programs.

Setting aside the multi-billion-dollar price tag that will accompany the "Cover
All Pennsylvanians" initiative, expanding taxpayer-subsidized health-care
insurance fails to address the reasons why people don't have insurance coverage
in the first place.

First, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, about 517,000 uninsured
Pennsylvanians are between ages 18-34. Understandably, this relatively healthy
demographic is neither interested nor willing to pay for an expensive insurance
program they do not intend to utilize.

Second, the reason health insurance is so pricey is because health care itself
is expensive. But the high cost of health care is primarily due to the
health-insurance model of how we pay for health care. Indeed, the health
insurance system bears much of the responsibility for helping create a
health-care system that is expensive, inefficient, bureaucratic, and
error-prone.

Unfortunately for both health-care consumers and taxpayers in Pennsylvania, Gov.
Rendell's solution to the problem - subsidizing and ultimately mandating
health-insurance coverage - is not a solution at all.

Indeed, such a scheme will only serve to exacerbate the problems in our
health-care system.

So what is the solution? We need to rethink the role of health insurance.
Instead of being a prepayment plan for future health-care services we may or may
not use, health-insurance coverage should be restored to the same function in
our lives as home or auto insurance. We should utilize health insurance for
catastrophic purposes, not daily maintenance.

Think about it. We don't purchase auto insurance to cover our oil changes or
adding washer fluid. We buy it to protect us from major, unintended and
unforeseen accidents. Auto owners pay for the regular upkeep and maintenance of
their cars. We don't fill up with gas and send an invoice to GEICO or
Progressive - or the taxpayers. If we did, we wouldn't care about how much a
tank of gas costs. Herein lies the problem.

The fact that our auto insurance doesn't operate like our health insurance is
what keeps prices competitive and relatively low for basic services. It also
keeps premiums for catastrophic coverage reasonable because they are adjusted to
our expected claims. If you're a good driver, you get price breaks. If you're a
habitual speeder, you pay more. For the most part, unlike your health insurance,
your auto insurance premium is not affected by how bad of a driver your neighbor
is.

Health insurance should be designed and utilized in the same manner. But it's
not. Our health insurance covers the medical equivalent of filling up with gas
or purchasing new tires, as well as when we ruin our car in an accident. The
result is that we don't pay much attention to the price of medical services. Nor
do we care. Yet this is precisely what has caused the hyperinflation of
health-care costs, and by extension, the expensive nature of basic health
insurance. And it is why many people choose to go without.

If lawmakers allowed health insurance to operate in a manner similar to auto
insurance (currently it can't because of government regulations, restrictions,
and myriad other interventions in the health-care marketplace), we would put
Pennsylvanians back in the driver's seat. As direct consumers of health care, we
would better control costs by better managing our basic services because we -
not some third-party payer, either an insurance company or taxpayers - would pay
for our simple health-care expenses.

If consumers paid medical professionals for their routine care, costs could go
down because the actual prices for health care - not the faux prices on your
insurance bill - would become fully transparent. In addition, doctors would not
have to spend so much time and resources on processing insurance claims.

Gov. Rendell's proposal does nothing to interject these necessary incentives
into our current health-care system. Under his scheme, consumers would continue
to have little concern about the actual costs of medical services. And why
should they? They wouldn't have to pay the bills; someone else would.

This is why the governor's "Prescription for Pennsylvania" will fail: He is
prescribing treatment for the symptom rather than the cause.

Expanding insurance coverage at taxpayers' expense without first addressing the
factors that are driving up health-care costs will only exacerbate our
health-care problems. Under the governor's scheme, neither the cost of health
care nor the cost of insurance will ever become reasonably priced for the
average Pennsylvanian.

Matthew J. Brouillette is president and CEO of the Commonwealth Foundation
(www.CommonwealthFoundation.org), a public policy research and educational
institute located in Harrisburg.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      January 25, 2004 Sunday CITY EDITION

HEALTH INSURANCE ON FRONT BURNER
DEMOCRATS' NEW PLANS SKIRT CLINTON'S MISTAKE

BYLINE: CHRIS MONDICSWashington Bureau

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1692 words


WASHINGTON -- Amid concern over steeply rising health-care costs, the top-tier
Democratic presidential candidates are offering far-reaching proposals for the
uninsured but stopping short of the system-wide overhaul that former President
Clinton sought a decade ago.

Shortly after Clinton took office in 1993, he promised health insurance for
millions of Americans who had no coverage. But before long, the plan was a
shambles, derailed by concerns that it would cost too much and create a huge new
bureaucracy.

To a great degree, the proposals of the seven candidates vying for the
Democratic presidential nomination have been shaped by the collapse of Clinton's
health initiative, which set back his presidency and figured in the Democrats'
loss of control of the House of Representatives in 1994, from which they've
never recovered.

Each candidate is proposing expansive and expensive plans to provide health
coverage to almost all the 43 million Americans who are uninsured. But, mindful
of the potential for a backlash, the top-tier candidates would stop short of the
top-to-bottom restructuring that Clinton called for and in most instances would
build on existing state and federal programs.

"People have not gotten over 1994 yet," Karen Pollitz, the project director for
the Georgetown University Health Policy Institute, said of the Clinton plan.
"President Clinton tried to fix everything at once. It was not well received and
not only that, the Democrats got turned out at the next election."

The biggest obstacle to the Democrats' proposals is cost. The plans range from
$5 trillion over 10 years for a national health-insurance plan like Canada's,
put forward by Rep. Dennis Kucinich of Ohio, to the $590 billion 10-year plan by
Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina to insure all children by expanding existing
government programs.

With soaring federal budget deficits, the big price tags could pose high hurdles
if any of the Democrats make it to the White House.

"It's one thing to bash President Bush for budget deficits, but then you are
under some constraints not to run up the deficit yourself," said Fred
Greenstein, a professor of politics at Princeton University.

CUT THE TAX CUT

The Democrats all propose to repeal some or all of the tax cuts enacted under
President Bush to generate revenues to pay for their health plans.

Among the top-tier candidates, former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean's proposal is the
costliest, $932 billion over 10 years, which would be used to pump up the State
Children's Health Insurance Plan, expand Medicaid and provide tax credits to
help low-income families purchase insurance.

In approach and structure, the leading Democratic candidates' proposals have
striking similarities. They seek to deepen government's involvement in health
care by expanding successful programs with huge infusions of federal money or by
granting workers tax credits to buy health insurance, while stopping short of
putting the entire health-care system under government control.

With the exception of proposals from the Rev. Al Sharpton and Kucinich, the
Democrats' plans would permit people who already are insured and satisfied with
their coverage to keep it unchanged, avoiding any backlash from people skeptical
of fixing something they don't think is broken.

Despite the huge financial and political obstacles facing health-care reform,
the Democratic candidates might be pitching their proposals at a favorable
moment. After holding steady through much of the 1990s, health-care costs and
the numbers of uninsured are climbing.

The Health and Human Services Department says health-care spending rose 9.3
percent in 2002, the sharpest rise in 11 years, and the spiraling cost of
medical care is leading employers to curtail coverage. From 2000 to 2002, the
number of uninsured Americans rose by 10 percent, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau.

The rising costs and growing numbers of uninsured prompted the National Academy
of Sciences to call on national leaders Jan. 14 to work toward health-care
coverage for all Americans by 2010. The academy noted that the United States is
alone among wealthy industrialized nations in not guaranteeing health-care
coverage, even as it spends more per capita on medical care than any nation on
Earth.

HEALTH COSTS WILL ESCALATE

Henry Aaron, a health-care analyst at the Brookings Institution, a center-left
research center in Washington, said there was little likelihood that the cost
increases would abate because a new generation of costly prescription drugs and
medical technology would drive up prices.

"We are getting squeezed from three or four different directions," he said.

Sensing an opening, the Democratic presidential candidates have been pounding
away on the issue. Some 43 percent of their advertising has mentioned health
care, said the University of Wisconsin-based Wisconsin Advertising Project,
which has been tracking political ads.

On Wednesday, Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts accused Bush of protecting
pharmaceutical companies and promised to work for changes in the law to allow
imports of lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada, where prices are
government-controlled.

"One of the biggest reasons health-care costs are rising year after year is that
prescription drug prices are being pushed into the stratosphere," Kerry said.

In their complexity, reach and cost, the Democrats' proposals contrast sharply
with those of the president, who's taking a less ambitious approach. He's
promoting a plan to provide $89 billion in tax credits over 10 years for low-
and moderate-income families to help pay for health insurance.

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PLANS

Each of the Democrats' proposals has distinctive features:

-- Edwards would focus on providing insurance to children.

-- Dean, a physician who helped engineer a huge expansion of health insurance
for low- and moderate-income people in Vermont, would expand existing state and
federal health programs and deny tax credits and government contracts to
businesses that don't provide health coverage to their workers.

Dean would supplement his plan by establishing a health-insurance purchasing
pool modeled after the plan for members of Congress and other federal employees.
It would be open to small businesses, firms with 50 employees or fewer.

-- Kerry would have the government pick up the bulk of the cost of the most
expensive medical cases and relieve business of the expense, provided that firms
pass along the savings to their workers.

-- Retired Army Gen. Wesley Clark would guarantee health insurance for every
child and young adult through the age of 22, and he would allow families that
aren't eligible for job-based insurance to purchase coverage from the same
health plan that covers members of Congress and other federal employees.

-- Sharpton and Kucinich would establish a program of national health insurance,
in which the government would pay for health-care services for everyone.

-- Sen. Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, in addition to expanding health care
for children and low-income adults, would establish a network of school-based
health centers where children would be screened for diabetes and other chronic
ailments.

Several of the candidates say improving the quality and flow of information
through the system would lower costs and improve medical treatment. Kerry said
the government should computerize all its health-care transactions. Clark would
impanel experts to evaluate medical practices with the aim of finding those that
drain the system of money without improving health care very much.

Democrats' health plans in a nutshell

Thumbnail sketches of the Democratic presidential candidates' positions on
health insurance:

WESLEY CLARK

Guarantee health insurance for every child and young adult through age 22.
Provide tax credits for families with incomes up to $90,000 annually who aren't
eligible for public health plans. Permit Americans without job-based health
insurance to purchase coverage from the same plan that insures Congress and
other federal employees. Rates would be subject to government control.

Plan projected to cost $820 billion over 10 years.

HOWARD DEAN

Use federal money to expand state health-insurance programs for children in low-
and moderate-income families. Establish a health insurance-purchasing pool like
the one used by federal employees to provide coverage for small businesses and
people who can't get coverage elsewhere. Government would limit tax deductions
and contracts for companies that decline to provide health insurance for their
workers.

Cost: $932 billion over 10 years.

JOHN EDWARDS

Would focus primarily on uninsured children. Offer tax credits to parents with
incomes up to $100,000 a year to buy insurance through their employers from the
State Children's Health Insurance Plan, which provides coverage to children in
low- and moderate-income families. Require parents who receive tax credits to
provide health insurance for their children.

Cost: $590 billion over 10 years.

JOHN KERRY

Reimburse employers for 75 percent of costs of insuring the costliest ailments
and health-care procedures. Employers must pass along savings to their employees
in enhanced benefits or reduced employee contributions. Assist states in
expanding their health-insurance programs for low- and moderate-income families.

Cost: $895 billion over 10 years.

DENNIS KUCINICH

Government would pay for all health-care services and private health-insurance
companies would be phased out. Modeled on Canada system.

Cost: $5 trillion over 10 years.

JOE LIEBERMAN

Expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Also create a new
children's health-insurance plan modeled on federal employees' plan. All
children would be eligible. Low- and moderate-income families would get coverage
at no cost; those from higher income families would be charged on a sliding
scale.

Cost: $747 billion over 10 years.

AL SHARPTON

Has called for a national health-insurance system like Canada's.

Cost: unknown.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Campaign 2004

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                August 24, 2009

Employer mandates in health reform plans worry small-biz groups

BYLINE: JAY GREENE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0016

LENGTH: 940 words


Will small businesses in Southeast Michigan be helped or hurt by federal
proposals to overhaul the health care delivery and financing system?

Health care experts in Detroit disagree on that question. But they agree on one
thing: It is vitally important for Michigan and the rest of the country to
debate what should be done to reduce the 46 million uninsured, to improve
quality and to reduce rising health care costs.

While the health insurance industry favors a mandate to require that individuals
purchase health insurance, Michigan's top two small-business associations -- the
Warren-based Michigan Business and Professional Association and the
Lansing-based Small Business Association of Michigan -- oppose the "pay or play"
employer mandate that is contained in most federal bills.

Scott Lyon, SBAM's vice president of small-business services, said his group
favors an individual mandate for people to purchase their own health insurance.

But Lyon said the rising of health insurance premiums is the main problem for
small companies.

"The first, second and third problem with health care is cost. Our average
member is spending $8,300 per employee, per year, on health insurance," said
Lyon. "Everyone has their own picture in mind to address the uninsured. There
are about 12 million who can't afford insurance, but we believe most are
uninsured because it costs too much."

The employer mandate to provide health insurance to their employees is one of
the most controversial aspects of proposed federal health care reform
legislation.

But most small employers -- those with 25 or fewer workers, as noted in the
Senate health bill, or annual payrolls of $500,000 or less, in the House version
-- would likely be exempted from an employer mandate that would require them to
provide health insurance for their workers.

Dana Thompson, a law professor at Wayne State University Law School, said she
believes federal health reform proposals would help small businesses in
Michigan.

"It would allow small businesses to choose health insurance coverage for their
workers with lower premiums and higher quality," said Thompson, who is director
of the university's small-business law clinic.

"We know that there are a lot of small businesses that can't afford to provide
health insurance because the costs are too high. Some are dropping insurance,"
she said. "It is not good for workers to go without coverage. It is more
difficult for companies to recruit and retain workers."

President Barack Obama has asked congressional leaders to complete negotiations
on final bills when they return from summer recess in September. He wants
legislators to vote on a final package in joint legislative conference committee
soon afterward.

Democrats want to create a competitive environment to provide affordable health
insurance coverage to the 46 million uninsured. They also want to eliminate
insurance practices that can lead to people not being covered because of
pre-existing conditions or because they become sick and costly to insure.

Obama also wants to lower health care costs -- which have been increasing on
average more than 10 percent annually the past decade -- and are busting family
and business budgets. He also wants to study best clinical practices that can
help to lower costs and improve quality.

But even if Obama signed legislation by the end of the year, the reform
proposals don't call for implementation until 2013.

"My biggest concern is the ripple effect on the private sector if the government
privatizes (health insurance)," said Jennifer Kluge, MBPA's COO. "How can the
private sector compete with government-run insurance?"

Kluge said the ripple effect could include additional job losses, bankruptcies
and small businesses dropping health insurance coverage for their workers.

The National Federation of Independent Business has issued a warning that more
than 1 million jobs could be eliminated if an employer mandate is part of a
comprehensive reform package.

"As a conservative, I have problems with the whole concept to begin with," Kluge
said. "Our board met and we cannot support either bill in the Senate or House
side."

Lyon agreed. "Taken as a whole, these bills will have a negative impact on small
business in Michigan," he said.

On the other side, Jim Scoggin, co-owner of Troy-based Great Lakes Employee
Benefit Services, said the dual impact of rising numbers of uninsured and health
insurance premiums is an unsustainable business model.

"Pushing (insurance) to employers is the only way to get it done. Companies have
got to find a way to lower costs," Scoggin said. "If nothing is done, more
employers will drop coverage because of rising costs."

Scoggin said he is in favor of the employer or individual mandate to reduce the
number of uninsured that could lower costs for businesses currently providing
health insurance.

"A federal health insurance option, or cooperative, could help control costs and
provide a very viable solution for their problem of rising costs," Scoggin said.

But David Kendall, senior fellow for health policy with Washington-based Third
Way, a progressive health care think tank that supports health care reform, said
an employer mandate would increase costs for some small businesses.

"The payroll tax is a labor cost that comes out of employee benefits," Kendall
said. "The impact would be that it would lower the firm's wages to employees.
Low-income workers would have insurance coverage subsidized."

However, the legislation provides tax credits for companies with fewer than 25
employees to encourage them to voluntarily purchase insurance.

Copyright 2009 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: db


                      Copyright 2009 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            June 15, 2005 Wednesday

Health care costs rise;
taxpayers foot the bill

BYLINE: Mary Katherine Stout, TEXAS PUBLIC POLICY FOUNDATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 649 words


If you think your health care costs are going up, hold on to your wallet. You
don't know the half of it -- literally.

Whether you insure yourself, get health care through your employer or purchase
health care for your employees, chances are you know that costs are rising. But
that's not all; you are also bearing the hidden cost of providing health care to
others.

This past session, the Texas Legislature passed a $139.4 billion budget,
appropriating almost $38 billion for Medicaid alone. This federal and state
partnership provides public health insurance to low-income Texans, driving the
state budget and edging out other priorities.

With a 14 percent increase in Medicaid funding over the previous biennium, the
Legislature has catapulted Medicaid to the single largest budget item -- a full
$4 billion more than the state will spend on public education. What will this
cost Texans? Over the next two years, per-capita Medicaid spending will amount
to $1,690 for every man, woman and child in Texas.

In addition, the state will spend $1.4 billion to fund the Children's Health
Insurance Program (CHIP).

While advocates for low-income Texans have spent the last two years bleating
about how the state is abdicating its responsibility to the poor, Texas
taxpayers will hardly find the bill cheap. In the new state budget, CHIP
spending increases $409.1 million over the course of the biennium -- a 41
percent increase driven by additional services, including vision and dental
benefits. These extras are paid for by generous taxpayers who are themselves
unlikely to have fully paid vision and dental benefits though their employer.

What will CHIP cost Texans? The equivalent of another $62 for every man, woman
and child in Texas.

The state budget also authorizes an average of 220,384 full time equivalent
positions; that's one state employee for every 102 Texans. Unlike most large
employers, the state pays 100 percent of the cost of health insurance for its
employees and half the cost for state employees' spouses and dependent children.
To meet the anticipated growth in health care costs in this generous
arrangement, the state budget increases funding for state employee health
benefits by 19 percent -- to a total of just over $2 billion over the next two
years. What will this cost Texans?

Add another $88 from every man, woman and child in Texas to support state
employee health insurance.

All told, the per-capita cost of Medicaid, CHIP and state employee health
insurance comes to about $1,841 for every person in Texas; that's without
factoring the taxpayers' cost to pay for teachers' health insurance, or the
health insurance costs for city and county employees.

To fund Medicaid, CHIP and state employees' health insurance over the next two
years, a family of four will pay almost $7,400. The glaring reality is that for
many Texas families, the tab for other people's health care rivals what they pay
for their own care.

Of course, therein lies a perfect example of government arrogance. As lawmakers
and opinion leaders lament the rising cost of health care and the growing number
of Americans who find the price of health insurance out of reach, government
mistakenly believes that it can solve the problem.

The state of Texas will take some $41 billion in tax dollars to pay for these
programs over the next two years. This leaves many Texans struggling to find
affordable health insurance while paying high taxes to generously subsidize
others. Texas families could far better prioritize their spending and meet their
own health care needs if they weren't paying such a high price for other
people's benefits.

The question isn't just how much your health care costs you, but what you could
afford if you weren't subsidizing others at such generous rates.

Stout is the health care policy analyst at the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a
research institute based in Austin.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


                              117 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                             Health Insurance Cost

                       777 S. Flagler Drive  Suite 500 E
                           West Palm Beach,  FL 33401
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (561) 671-2555
URL: www.health-insurance-cost.org

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Health Insurance Cost strives to help you find affordable health insurance
coverage to fit your needs. With rising healthcare costs in the United States,
finding the right insurance coverage for you and your family or business can be
quite a feat. Fortunately, Health Insurance Cost has the connections to get you
the quotes that allow you to make a well-researched and informed decision.
Simply fill out our short quote form, and Health Insurance Cost will be able to
connect you with health insurance agents licensed in your area who can help you
compare your options. Remember, you must fill out accurate information on the
form in order to receive an accurate quote.  Don't let expensive premiums keep
you from protecting your most prized possessions - your family and your health.
Let Health Insurance Cost help you find the coverage you need at a price you can
afford!

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              118 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Mississippi Business Journal (Jackson, MS)

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday

Health insurance costs in U.S. exceed $2 per hour

BYLINE: Wally Northway

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 197  words


In March 2010, the average cost for health insurance benefits was $2.08 per hour
worked in private industry.

Among occupational groups, employer costs for health insurance benefits ranged
from 92 cents per hour for service workers, to $3.03 per hour for management,
professional, and related occupations.

In March 2010, among other occupational groups, employer costs for health
benefits averaged $1.87 per hour worked for sales and office occupations, lower
than $2.49 per hour for natural resources, construction and maintenance
occupations, and $2.34 per hour for production, transportation and material
moving occupations.

Employer costs for health insurance benefits were significantly higher for union
workers, averaging $4.38 per hour worked, than for non-union workers, averaging
$1.82 per hour.

In goods-producing industries, health insurance benefit costs were higher, at
$2.88 per hour worked, than in service-providing industries, at $1.92 per hour.

Among the four regions, costs for health insurance benefits ranged from $1.78
per hour worked in the South to $2.40 per hour in the Northeast. Health care
costs were $2.21 per hour in the Midwest and $2.11 per hour in the West.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                          September 12, 2007 Wednesday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Health insurance average: $12,106

BYLINE: By Jane M. Von Bergen; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; P-com Biz; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 608 words


Health insurance premiums for the average family topped $12,000 in 2006 - more
than the cost of an economy car - according to an annual survey released
yesterday.

It's a fact health-benefits consultant Ivy Silver understands all too well. She
spent the morning yesterday with a client - a nonprofit agency that helps
disadvantaged women.

The agency offers health insurance to its 100-plus employees, but "we were
talking about how to get their employees' children into CHIP, because they know
a lot of their employees can't afford the cost of dependent care," said Silver,
president of the Commonwealth Consulting Group Inc., of Jenkintown.

The State Children's Health Insurance Program is a federal program for
low-income children ineligible for Medicaid but without access to private health
insurance.

Silver notes the irony: The agency's social workers have to help their own
colleagues get their children into a government-funded health insurance program
covering children of low-income families.

She has switched insurance carriers to lower costs for her employees. "It's a
rate-chasing game," she said.

At a news conference yesterday, the Kaiser Family Foundation, which tracks
annual health insurance costs, used survey numbers to explain what appeared to
be a contradiction:

At a time when the rate of increases in the cost of health insurance is slowing
- down to 6.1 percent this year, compared with a 13.9 increase in 2003 - the
intensity of the discussion on health care has picked up.

That's because, the report shows, premium costs for health insurance have risen
78 percent since 2001, while inflation has gone up 17 percent and wages are up
19 percent.

"It's the growing anxiety on the part of the public which is moving health care
up the political agenda," said Drew Altman, president and chief executive
officer of the California-based foundation.

Voters surveyed in a Kaiser poll, taken last month, said health care was the
second-most-important issue, behind the Iraq war.

Kaiser's benefits survey showed:

Annual premiums average $12,106 for families, with workers, on average, picking
up $3,281 of the cost. Coverage for singles costs $4,479, with individuals
paying $694.

Workers in companies with fewer than 200 employees pay a larger share of the
premiums for family coverage than do their counterparts in larger companies.

The percentage of small companies offering coverage is declining, down to 45
percent for businesses with fewer than 10 employees. Coverage in midsize
companies also is on the decline.

About 40 percent of the 3,000 companies surveyed plan to shift more costs to
employees. Three percent say they may drop coverage.

Increasing numbers of employees are dropping out of their companies' insurance
plans. The uninsured number 46.5 million, according to the Census Bureau's most
recent report.

Insurance costs rose 6.1 percent between 2006 and 2007; wages rose 3.7 percent
and inflation 2.6 percent.

Study coauthor Jon Gabel said political pressure on Blue Cross-Blue Shield
health insurers, such as Independence Blue Cross, has helped keep increases
relatively low.

The Blues are close to the statutory limits on their surplus in some states,
Gabel said. The pressure to keep surpluses down forces the Blues to keep
premiums lower, which affects their competitors. Surplus refers to the money
that remains after all liabilities have been subtracted from an insurer's
assets.

Independence Blue Cross, the region's largest health insurer, has not reached a
statutory limit with its surplus, now at $1.7 billion, according to its 2006
report.

Contact staff writer Jane M. Von Bergen at 215-854-2769 or
jvonbergen@phillynews.com.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sacramento Bee

                            March 9, 2005, Wednesday

Health costs put squeeze on Sacramento, Calif.,

BYLINE: By Phillip Reese

LENGTH: 842 words



Unless something changes fast, health insurance costs will soon become a $ 70
million problem for Sacramento city officials.

Other local municipalities also are suffering huge increases in health costs.

All face a similar dilemma: How to keep costs down for employees without cutting
services or passing the buck to taxpayers.

"It's just a problem for which there doesn't seem to be a solution," said
Lillian Hare, city clerk and head of human resources for Rancho Cordova.

In Sacramento, health insurance costs have doubled since 1996, with annual
family premiums rising from $ 5,165 to $ 9,987.

The city's health insurance costs will rise from $ 27.5 million to $ 68.6
million by 2013, according to a consultant's estimates recently presented to the
City Council. Employees currently pick up nearly a third of those costs.

If those projections hold true, insurance costs, including employee
contributions, would be equal to about 17 percent of the city's general fund by
2013, up from 8 percent in 2003.

"I would say health costs ... are the most important issue going forward," said
City Councilman Steve Cohn. "It will either have to come out of employment
benefits or city services."

It's not just a problem for Sacramento city taxpayers.

Health insurance premiums for Sacramento County government doubled during the
past 10 years. County officials say they expect those costs to double again
during the next decade.

Even a new town like Rancho Cordova is dealing with rising health insurance
costs. Last year, the city increased its pay for health insurance to employees
by 5 percent.

"This is a concern for every company and every public agency," Hare said.

Sacramento County municipalities and their employees are in the same rough
waters as private businesses and local school districts. According to the Kaiser
Family Foundation, premiums for employer-sponsored health insurance in
California increased 15.8 percent in 2003, higher than the national average
increase of 13.9 percent and nearly seven times the rate of inflation.

Sacramento is negotiating with municipal workers' unions. The city faces a
number of unique challenges in keeping costs down.

The city gives employees who opt out of health insurance a cash-back payment.
For most, the amount is about $ 600 a month, several times more than other
California cities, the consultant's report showed. Almost three out of every 10
active employees waive coverage and take the cash.

That leaves a pool of insured workers composed disproportionately of retirees
and older employees, city officials say. The city has only three active
employees for every two retirees in its health plan. Because of the composition
and reduced size of the pool, health costs per employee are high.

The city is considering reducing its cash-back payments to employees, along with
other ways to get more city employees enrolled in the system. In 2003, the city
paid $ 7.2 million to employees who waived coverage.

"Cash back is a model that came up in the mid-1980s," said Terrence Woods, human
resources director for the city of Sacramento. "You just don't have that much
being paid in California today."

David Topaz, president of the Sacramento Police Officers Association, agrees
that something needs to be done to reduce the number of city employees opting
out of coverage.

The city also should look at changing the way it pays for health insurance for
retirees who live outside its health plan coverage area, Topaz said.

These former employees, along with a few current city employees who don't live
near work, aren't covered by the city's regular plan. They cost the city almost
$ 860,000 a year, the consultant's report showed.

Things get even trickier when the subject switches to who should pick up the tab
for rising health insurance costs.

In Sacramento County government, the burden has largely fallen on employees'
shoulders.

"The premiums have gone up 105 to 110 percent," said David Devine, director of
employment services and risk management for county government, describing costs
over the past 10 years. "The portion the county pays for employees only went up
42 percent."

Devine said the county would consult with its workers' unions to determine who
would pick up the bulk of the tab for future health insurance increases.

In the city of Sacramento, Topaz and other workers would like to see the city
pay a percentage of health insurance costs, instead of a flat amount.

That way, Topaz said, employees would not have to constantly fight the city for
increases.

"We want it so that it is predictable," Topaz said.


-----

To see more of The Sacramento Bee, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.sacbee.com.

Copyright (c) 2005, The Sacramento Bee, Calif.

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: SA-HEALTH-COST-20050309

JOURNAL-CODE: SA

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                         Copyright 2005 Sacramento Bee


                              121 of 999 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                              March 5, 2010 Friday

It's Time To Vote;
Health Care Plans Improve Coverage, Fairness

BYLINE: In Our View

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 677  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


What's the cost of your health insurance?

According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, employer-based family plans cost an
average of $13,375 in 2009. Of that amount, employees paid $3,515, or slightly
more than 25 percent on average, while employers paid $9,860.

The figures for Pennsylvanians in 2008 - the last year for which data was
available - were $12,339 for a family plan with employees paying an average of
$2,971.

That's great if you work for a company with health insurance coverage.

But according to Families USA, a national health care consumer organization,
fewer than half (46 percent) of small companies with nine or fewer employees
offer health insurance to their employees.

And the cost of purchasing health insurance for those who do not have
employer-covered health insurance can be prohibitive.

Individual basic care policies cost workers $7,000 or more per year. Basic
family plans cost roughly $14,000. And those costs are rising sharply.

In February, Anthem Blue Cross in California announced plans to hike premiums 39
percent. Independence Blue Cross announced it is raising premiums 60 percent for
27,000 workers in the greater Philadelphia area who purchase Personal Choice
insurance.

Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, a former state insurance
commissioner, has asked insurance companies to file rate hikes online and to
explain the rationale fbehind the increases.

The self-employed had a difficult time paying those premiums when the economy
was humming along. Faced with the recession, many have dropped their health
insurance coverage., and he fallout could be deadly.

Families USA projects that without comprehensive health care reform, more than
290,000 adults nationwide, including 7,500 Pennsylvanians, will die prematurely
from a lack of health insurance coverage between 2010 and 2019. That's an
average death rate of 2 persons per day simply because they lack health
insurance.

Researchers say there is a link between premature deaths and the lack of
insurance because people without insurance do not get screenings or tests
associated with preventative care until it is too late. The study used the same
methodology as that used by the Urban Institute in 2006 when it estimated that
22,000 people between the ages of 25 and 64 died due to a lack of health
insurance.

Critics of health care reform have suggested that many people prefer not to buy
insurance.

But in a national teleconference Tuesday, Kathy Levine, executive director of
United Health Care Action Network of Ohio, said that 80 percent of the uninsured
in that state are from working families that simply cannot afford health
insurance. In most cases, she said, individuals without children do not qualify
for state-subsidized plans.

The health care reform bill passed by Congress would change that. It would
enable individuals to tap into public plans. It also would provide subsidies for
working families that now lack coverage.

President Barack Obama announced his willingness to add several Republican
components to the health reform plan. Those options include random, undercover
investigations of Medicare health care providers; health courts to resolve
medical malpractice disputes; increased Medicaid reimbursements for doctors; and
expanding the use of Health Savings Accounts.

U.S. Sen. Tom Coburn, R-Okla., a physician, praised Obama's willingness to
consider the GOP provisions. But in what has become the mantra of the Republican
Party, he said he would not vote for what he termed were "deeply flawed'' House
and Senate health care reform bills.

Republican proposals to move health care reform ahead incrementally fall short
of helping those most in need.

Insurance companies should not be allowed to drop people from coverage due to
pre-existing conditions or because they face a catastrophic illness.

The health care bills before Congress address these issues. They provide better
and more affordable coverage to all Americans and especially to those who need
it most.

That's the hallmark of a fair plan, not a flawed one. It's time for a vote.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.


                              122 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday
                                  All Editions

HEALTH CARE'S BOTTOM LINE

SECTION: Pg. A6

LENGTH: 450 words


Imagine you own a business that employs 25 people. Imagine, also, that the
president and a majority of Congress came to you and pledged to reduce and
stabilize a major, annual cost of that business. Which cost would you pick?
Energy? Hiring, training and retention? Shipping? IT, computers and telephones?

For many businesses, the cost of providing health insurance to employees would
top the list.

In the national debate on how to reconfigure the health care payment system, the
impact of increasing costs on business has been largely overlooked. Covering the
45 million Americans who currently do not have health insurance is important,
but so is easing the burden on private business which has, for most of the last
50 years, carried the bulk of the cost of that insurance.

And this is another important reason why the so-called public option - a
government-run payment system - should be part of the reconfigured system. It's
true that one segment of the business world would be hurt - the for-profit
health insurance companies. But if insurance costs could be reduced and
contained, almost every business in the country would have more capital to
invest in equipment, product and service development, advertising and marketing,
training and more.

Cutting health insurance costs - like cutting any other business cost -
immediately goes to the bottom line. That is, for every thousand dollars saved
in expense, profits go up by $1,000.

How much cost are we talking about? In response to a request from the BDN, the
Bangor Region Chamber of Commerce solicited some of its members to reveal,
anonymously, how much they pay for health insurance. A business with seven
full-time employees - five are individual plans, two are family plans - pays
$51,600 a year. Another with six full-time employees pays $23,600 each year. A
business with 35 employees pays $244,260 annually - that's $20,355 each month.
And a business with 57 full time employees pays $400,000 each year.

If a viable public health insurance option were available, consider what that
would mean for the seven-employee business and the 35-employee business. If
larger businesses pick up most of the cost, through taxes, of the public option,
then the local businesses would have most of $51,600 and $244,260 to invest
elsewhere. Or keep as profit.

Setting aside the disingenuous charges of socialism and the scare tactics that
inaccurately describe scenarios where the government is running hospitals and
physician offices, health care finance reform helps business.

Publicly, you may hear business owners shaking their heads and clucking about
the horrors of a public health care payer, but privately, they may already be
counting the savings.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                              123 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Victoria Advocate (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 21, 2009 Monday

Health insurance costs going up for county employees

BYLINE: David Tewes, Victoria Advocate, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 389 words


Sep. 21--Health insurance premiums will double for some county of Victoria
employees in 2010 to help cover the cost of providing the service.

The commissioners court adopted the new rates Monday, although County Judge Don
Pozzi said there was no choice.

"We have over the years held the cost down," he said. "But we're suffering like
all other employers that provide all or part of the health insurance to
employees and their families."

The cost for an employee only who has taken part in the health screening program
will double from $50 to $100 a month. The portion of the premium paid by the
taxpayers will increase $50 to $366 a month.

The total increase for employees with dependents will be $50 a month.

The cost for an employee only who hasn't taken part in the screening will
increase $100 to $200 a month. The taxpayers will pay $366 a month per employee,
up $50 a month.

The total increase for employees with dependents will be $100 a month if they
haven't taken the screening.

The same increases apply to retirees.

"For a number of years now, the general fund has had to supplement the health
insurance fund," said Joyce Dean, the county director of administrative
services. "But as with most other companies, governmental organizations and
corporations, health insurance costs continue to rise."

Most of the cost being passed on to employees is related to dependent claims,
she said. The county does provide a medical clinic to employees and their
dependents.

"So although they are paying a higher premium, they still have the opportunity
to get the medical service that they need through the clinic that's provided for
100 percent by the county," Dean said.

Pozzi said there is a wide range among Texas counties in how they handle
insurance premiums, ranging from employees having to pay the full cost to the
counties picking up part of the cost.

"We will continue every effort to manage that program," Pozzi said.

To see more of Victoria Advocate, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.thevictoriaadvocate.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Victoria Advocate, Texas
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090921-VI-Health-insurance-costs-going-up-for-county-employees-0921

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VI


                        Copyright 2009 Victoria Advocate


                              124 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 19, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: Tester Sponsors Another Bill to Improve Health Care System and Lower
Out-Of-Pocket Costs

LENGTH: 419  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: Office of the Senator Jon Tester has issued the following news
release:
U.S. Senator Jon Tester today sponsored another bill to fix the current health
care system and lower the cost of health care for Montanans.


Tester's Addressing Affordability for More Americans Act will provide premium
tax credits to working Montanans, who make too much money to qualify for
existing tax credits, but still can't afford health insurance. This bill will
directly help Montanans who purchase health insurance in the individual
marketplace and are facing rising premiums due to partisan efforts to undermine
the current health care system.
"I have held health care town hall meetings across the state and I keep hearing
from folks who are glad they finally have access to life-saving health care, but
they are struggling to afford their premiums," Tester said. "This bill will help
the families afford quality health insurance. Rather than force a bill through
Congress that doubles premiums, let's pass legislation that will immediately
lower the out-of-pocket health care costs for hardworking families."
The Affordable Care Act created a tax credit for individuals who earn up to
$48,000 annually. Tester's bill will increase that threshold so people earning
up to $96,500 can qualify for tax credits to help pay for health insurance.
These premium tax credits will guarantee that individuals do not pay more than a
certain percentage of their income for health insurance premiums. Under the
current structure, people making up to $48,000 a year pay no more than 9.5
percent of their annual income towards health insurance premiums. Tester's bill
creates a tiered income structure where folks will only pay a proportional part
of their income toward health insurance premiums. The bill puts a ceiling on the
tax credits to ensure that Montanans making up to $96,500 will pay no more than
15 percent of their annual income towards health insurance premiums.
Tester is sponsoring legislation to ensure the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services stabilizes health insurance markets to better control the cost of
health insurance premiums by making cost-sharing reduction payments, and he is
urging health insurers and the Montana Insurance Commissioner to shed more light
on 2018 health insurance costs.
The Addressing Affordability for More Americans Act is Tester's latest bill to
improve the current health care system, increase access and lower the cost of
health care. Tester's other actions include:

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday

City's health insurance costs rise 12 percent

BYLINE: Matt Sanctis, Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words


Jan. 23--Health insurance rates will rise about 12 percent for the city of
Urbana this year, the result of several large claims in the past year.

Among the items on the city council agenda Tuesday, Urbana city council members
were asked to approve a purchase of the city's portion for annual health
insurance premiums, a total cost of $870,000.

That price rose slightly more than 12 percent from last year, when the premium
cost the city about $776,000, said Lee Williams, Urbana's finance director. The
increase is about 4 percent more than anticipated, Williams said.

In most years, the city plans for at least an 8 percent annual increase and it
had set aside about $839,000 in the budget. However, Williams said the larger
increase was the result of an unusually high number of significant claims from
city employees.

About 25 health insurance claims of $10,000 or more were filed in the past year.
Urbana employs 87 full-time workers.

"We got hit pretty hard," Williams said.

Because the city's annual rate is based on its history, the number of large
claims led to higher costs for both the city and its employees this year. The
city pays 90 percent of health insurance costs, including life, vision and
dental insurance. Employees cover the remaining 10 percent, so the city and
workers will share the rise in cost.

Overall, the city has about a $15 million annual budget, Williams said, and the
health insurance premiums are one of the largest costs for the city each year.

"It's becoming my No. 1 line item other than wages," Williams said.

The rate could come down over time if there are fewer claims in the next few
years, but he said that's impossible to predict.

"It's one of those hidden elements we don't know," he said.

City council members were also asked to renew contracts to retain Carol Hall as
manager for Grimes Field airport for $14,650, and Susan Tehan as Oakdale
Cemetery coordinator for $10,968. Both items were included in the 2013 budget.

___ (c)2013 Springfield News-Sun, Ohio Visit Springfield News-Sun, Ohio at
www.springfieldnewssun.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130123-1SP-City-s-health-insurance-costs-rise-12-percent-0123-20130123

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1SP


                   Copyright 2013 Springfield News-Sun, Ohio


                              126 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo)

                            March 23, 2000, Thursday

Doctors paying less for health care premiums

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 586 words


Health insurance associations for medical practitioners are receiving favorable
treatment from the government, including free medical treatment in two
prefectures and all the 47 associations nationwide are receiving government
subsidies, amounting to more than 10 billion yen a year, The Yomiuri Shimbun
learned Wednesday.

The Yomiuri Shimbun conducted nationwide research on metropolitan and
prefectural national health insurance associations for medical practitioners.
The associations are organized in each prefecture by doctors who operate their
own clinics or small hospitals.

At 44 associations, including the Tokyo and Hokkaido associations, members only
have to pay 10 percent of medical treatment and diagnosis costs. At ordinary
health insurance associations that salaried workers belong to, the insured
members have to pay 20 percent of the medical costs, and the associations
usually do not receive government subsidies. Public health insurance
associations sponsored by municipal, town and village governments are partially
subsidized by the central government, but the insured members have to pay 30
percent of the medical costs.

At the doctors' health insurance associations, the subsidies constitute 20 to 30
percent of their annual budgets, The Yomiuri Shimbun found.

The Health and Welfare Ministry decided to revise its ordinance under the
National Health Insurance Law this month to reduce subsidies to the medical
practitioners' health insurance associations if payments are below 20 percent of
the total medical cost. The ministry has already informed the associations of
the decision.

Most medical practitioners are members of doctors' health insurance
associations, along with doctors employed at their clinics and hospitals, their
family members and employees at such medical institutions. The total number of
people covered by the associations was about 305,500 as of fiscal 1998.

In the same fiscal year, 12.6 billion yen was extended to the 47 health
insurance associations for the medical practitioners, or about 40,000 yen per
head.

In addition, Tokyo and 13 other associations received about 380 million yen in
total in subsidies from the local governments in the same fiscal year.

According to the survey, doctors did not have to pay any medical costs in
Shizuoka and Ehime prefectures.

In most of the other prefectures, the insured members had to pay only 10 percent
of the costs. Only those insured by the Yamaguchi Prefecture association had to
pay 20 percent of the medical costs, the same as members insured by salaried
workers' associations.

Some informed sources pointed out that premiums paid to the doctors' health
insurance associations are comparatively low, relative to their income and
compared with corporate and municipal national health insurance associations.

The premiums vary according to the income of the insured members. On average, a
household of a salaried worker and his wife with monthly income of 360,000 yen
is required to pay premiums of about 160,000 yen annually. In the case of city,
town and village governments, on average a self-employed family of two has to
pay about 150,000 yen a year. If they earn more, their premiums increase.

However, the premiums at each medical practitioners' associations is decided by
the associations themselves.

For instance, the Tokyo metropolitan health insurance association for doctors,
the amount is a uniform 15,000 yen per month per doctor and 5,000 yen for each
family member.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Yomiuri Shimbun


                              127 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                              June 5, 2017 Monday

What's not discussed in health care

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 734 words


As an employer and a health care provider I would like to discuss several things
that are not being addressed in the debate between Obamacare and Trumpcare.

Firstly, though it is a dirty little secret, between 40 percent and 50 percent
of the population in the U.S. is already on government-funded health care and
mostly they are happy with it.

If you add up all the employees of the military and their families, those
eligible for VA health care, Medicare, Medicaid, federal, state, county and city
employees and their families, individuals in prison, companies that depend
mostly on government-funded projects like highway construction companies and
defense companies, and heath care providers treating mostly Medicare patients
and the disabled, you have a large part of the population on government-funded
health care.

Secondly, what both parties are trying to do in addressing only health insurance
is like rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic. The reason health insurance
costs are so high is due to what it insures, health care. The cost of health
care is high and getting more so. Neither party is addressing this. It is as if
everyone drives a Rolls Royce and we are wondering why car insurance costs so
much. As an employer, I saw the same double-digit increases to health insurance
premiums before Obamacare as I do now afterward.

I have heard a lot of nonsense about allowing the free market to work here.
Health care in the U.S. does not function on a free market basis. There is no
way to choose one hospital over another as to quality and cost. When you go into
an emergency room you have no idea what your costs will be. You just walk out of
the hospital afterward and hope you can pay your share. Anyone who has ever
examined a hospital bill will tell you it is beyond understanding.

Allowing health insurance providers to sell stripped-down plans is the same as
just increasing the deductible. It just allows the insurers to call it a
non-covered procedure rather than tacking the charges on the deductible. Health
care is a necessity. No one goes through their whole life and refuses to ever
see a doctor. The federal government acknowledges this by requiring hospitals to
treat anyone who walks into an emergency room whether they can pay or not. If
health care was free market, hospitals could tell people "sorry you don't have
insurance, so go die."

My proposal to both parties is to provide a federal re-insurance for the health
insurance providers. Let's say an individual has more than $100,000 in a year in
health insurance costs, then a type of Trumpcare along the lines of Medicare
would step in and take over the costs. In addition, if an individual has more
than $1 million in health insurance costs over their lifetime, what the old
lifetime maximum was, then they would become instantly eligible for Medicare.
Medicare is essentially a high-risk group insurance anyway and most people who
need that much health care will end up disabled and soon on Medicare.

By limiting the losses to the insurers it should help to keep costs down. The
costs of the program will only go to those we know are high risk and not
individuals that insurers would perceive to be high risk. Medicare also
approaches the costs of health care differently than most insurers by paying for
the disease and not just procedures and supplies used. This is a real attempt to
control costs. Medicare also has much lower administrative costs than private
insurance.

Once we have addressed the costs of health insurance we need to take a good look
at the cost of heath care. The answers to that puzzle are more complicated and
require wiser men than me.

In addition, we should not switch regular Medicaid to block grants to the
states. As most welfare payments go to support people in nursing homes and with
us baby boomers reaching that age, going to block grants will put an incredible
strain on state budgets. Remember Sens. John Hoeven, R-N.D., and Heidi Heitkamp,
D-N.D., you were all once state officials and what it takes to balance a state
budget.

Could Congress also reduce the reporting paperwork of Obamacare and simplify it?
One of our office managers spent three full days this year just filling out the
Obamacare forms that no one will ever look at. It was ridiculous.

Bradley King is a lifelong resident of Bismarck and founder and senior partner
at Prairie Rose Family Dentists in Bismarck and Mandan.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2017 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                              June 5, 2017 Monday

What's not discussed during health care talks

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 734 words


As an employer and a health care provider I would like to discuss several things
that are not being addressed in the debate between Obamacare and Trumpcare.

Firstly, though it is a dirty little secret, between 40 percent and 50 percent
of the population in the U.S. is already on government-funded health care and
mostly they are happy with it.

If you add up all the employees of the military and their families, those
eligible for VA health care, Medicare, Medicaid, federal, state, county and city
employees and their families, individuals in prison, companies that depend
mostly on government-funded projects like highway construction companies and
defense companies, and heath care providers treating mostly Medicare patients
and the disabled, you have a large part of the population on government-funded
health care.

Secondly, what both parties are trying to do in addressing only health insurance
is like rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic. The reason health insurance
costs are so high is due to what it insures, health care. The cost of health
care is high and getting more so. Neither party is addressing this. It is as if
everyone drives a Rolls Royce and we are wondering why car insurance costs so
much. As an employer, I saw the same double-digit increases to health insurance
premiums before Obamacare as I do now afterward.

I have heard a lot of nonsense about allowing the free market to work here.
Health care in the U.S. does not function on a free market basis. There is no
way to choose one hospital over another as to quality and cost. When you go into
an emergency room you have no idea what your costs will be. You just walk out of
the hospital afterward and hope you can pay your share. Anyone who has ever
examined a hospital bill will tell you it is beyond understanding.

Allowing health insurance providers to sell stripped-down plans is the same as
just increasing the deductible. It just allows the insurers to call it a
non-covered procedure rather than tacking the charges on the deductible. Health
care is a necessity. No one goes through their whole life and refuses to ever
see a doctor. The federal government acknowledges this by requiring hospitals to
treat anyone who walks into an emergency room whether they can pay or not. If
health care was free market, hospitals could tell people "sorry you don't have
insurance, so go die."

My proposal to both parties is to provide a federal re-insurance for the health
insurance providers. Let's say an individual has more than $100,000 in a year in
health insurance costs, then a type of Trumpcare along the lines of Medicare
would step in and take over the costs. In addition, if an individual has more
than $1 million in health insurance costs over their lifetime, what the old
lifetime maximum was, then they would become instantly eligible for Medicare.
Medicare is essentially a high-risk group insurance anyway and most people who
need that much health care will end up disabled and soon on Medicare.

By limiting the losses to the insurers it should help to keep costs down. The
costs of the program will only go to those we know are high risk and not
individuals that insurers would perceive to be high risk. Medicare also
approaches the costs of health care differently than most insurers by paying for
the disease and not just procedures and supplies used. This is a real attempt to
control costs. Medicare also has much lower administrative costs than private
insurance.

Once we have addressed the costs of health insurance we need to take a good look
at the cost of heath care. The answers to that puzzle are more complicated and
require wiser men than me.

In addition, we should not switch regular Medicaid to block grants to the
states. As most welfare payments go to support people in nursing homes and with
us baby boomers reaching that age, going to block grants will put an incredible
strain on state budgets. Remember Sens. John Hoeven, R-N.D., and Heidi Heitkamp,
D-N.D., you were all once state officials and what it takes to balance a state
budget.

Could Congress also reduce the reporting paperwork of Obamacare and simplify it?
One of our office managers spent three full days this year just filling out the
Obamacare forms that no one will ever look at. It was ridiculous.

Bradley King is a lifelong resident of Bismarck and founder and senior partner
at Prairie Rose Family Dentists in Bismarck and Mandan.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2017 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday

Commentary: How retirees can find affordable insurance

BYLINE: Gary S. Williams

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 926  words


For most people these days, the idea of retiring early is just a dream. That's
due, in part, to the costs associated with obtaining health insurance before age
65, when Medicare eligibility kicks in. And, even with Medicare, a retiree's
younger spouse or dependents often aren't covered.

Fortunately, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as
the Health Care Reform Act, has changed the playing field somewhat, opening up
new avenues for the early retiree; however, its provisions will take several
years to be fully effective. So what can you do to find affordable care in the
interim?

Tips for bridging the gap

Enroll in the working spouse's group plan: This is probably the most common and
least expensive way for a retired spouse to obtain health insurance. Some
companies offer family coverage for domestic partners. Be aware, however, that
the working spouse usually has a limited time in which to enroll the retired
spouse after the retiree has lost health insurance coverage.

Qualify for retiree health insurance with your current employer: Although
employers seldom subsidize the cost of retiree health insurance, such coverage
still tends to be much less expensive than an individual insurance policy. Few
employers offer this option, however.

Be sure to determine whether the retiree coverage will replace or supplement
Medicare. Missing the enrollment date for Medicare could be an expensive
oversight.

Continue group health insurance under the federal Early Retiree Reinsurance
Program: The new ERRP reimburses employers up to 80 percent of the premiums for
group insurance for retirees age 55 or older, their spouses and their
dependents. While this may prove to be an affordable option, be aware that the
federal subsidies for the employer do not automatically reduce the retiree's
premium cost.

Elect COBRA benefits: Retirees and their dependents may be eligible for
continued employer benefits under COBRA. COBRA mandates that employers with 20
or more employees must continue group health insurance for terminating employees
for a period of time. The number of months someone can retain group insurance
coverage depends on the state. At a minimum, retirees can continue their
coverage for an additional 18 months, but at an unsubsidized cost (which may
cause sticker shock).

Buy a state-sponsored guaranteed health insurance plan: These are called
HIPAA-eligible plans or high-risk pools, depending on the program the state
offers. Under PPACA, states must offer insurance coverage for qualified
residents, regardless of pre-existing conditions. By 2014, uninsured retirees
who make too much to qualify for subsidized health plans will be able to buy
coverage, regardless of health, through private insurers via a state-sponsored
insurance exchange.

The cost for state-sponsored guaranteed health insurance will be higher than
insurance purchased through private insurers, but you cannot be turned down.
Most states cap the premiums at 125 percent to 200 percent of comparable private
coverage.

Start a small business or work part-time: Some states require insurers to offer
group plans to the self-employed. Small group plans are usually more cost
-effective and offer better benefits than most individual health insurance
contracts. If starting a business is unrealistic, retirees may get health
insurance through part-time work. While it is rare for employers to cover
part-time employees, some businesses -- including Starbucks, Nordstrom and
Barnes & Noble -- provide benefits for employees working 20 hours or more.

Buy an individual insurance plan: Because premiums frequently increase along
with age and health complications, insurance purchased from a private insurer is
the retiree's most expensive option, if he or she can qualify at all. But
individual plans often do not provide the comprehensive coverage the retiree is
accustomed to.

High-deductible plans combined with a Health Savings Account are becoming an
increasingly popular solution. These plans usually have a $5,000 to $10,000
deductible with a limit on out-of-pocket costs. Read the fine print and
understand what expenses meet the deductible. Some plans consider only "normal
and customary" expenses. Any excess out-of-pocket expense will not be credited
toward the deductible.

Estimating costs

Estimating your future medical costs is challenging. Not only are medical and
drug costs growing at a rate higher than inflation, but long-term costs due to
an individual's medical conditions and longevity are hard to predict. Your best
move is to work with a financial professional to determine what may be
appropriate for you.

With proper planning, the ability to retire early may be more than just a dream.

Gary S. Williams, CFP, CRPC, AIF, is president of Williams Asset Management at
8850 Columbia 100 Parkway, Columbia, Md. He is an investment adviser
representative with/and offers securities and advisory services through
Commonwealth Financial Network, Member FINRA/SIPC, a Registered Investment
Adviser. He can be reached at 410-740-0220 or Gary@WilliamsAssetManagement.com
This communication is strictly intended for individuals residing in the states
of: Arkansas, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Kansas, Massachusetts,
Maryland, Maine, Michigan, Missouri, North Carolina, New Jersey, New York, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Utah, Virginia, Wisconsin and West Virginia. No offers may be made
or accepted from any resident outside these states due to various state
requirements and registration requirements regarding investment products and
services.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times Standard (California)

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday

ABOUT MEDICARE: A new way to buy insurance

BYLINE: David Sayen/For the Times-Standard

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 589 words


When key parts of the health care law take effect in 2014, you'll have a new way
to buy health insurance for yourself, your family or your small business: the
Health Insurance Marketplace. The Marketplace is designed to help you find
health insurance that fits your budget, with less hassle.

Every health insurance plan in the new Marketplace will offer comprehensive
coverage, from doctors to medications to hospital visits. You can compare all
your insurance options based on price, benefits, quality and other features that
may be important to you, in plain language that makes sense.

You'll know you're getting a quality health plan at a reasonable price, because
there's nothing buried in the fine print.

When you shop at the Marketplace, all your costs are stated upfront. So you'll
get a clear picture of what you're paying and what you're getting before you
make a choice.

California's Marketplace is called Covered Californiawww.CoveredCa.com ).

Under the health care law, you and your family also will have new protections.
Health insurance companies can't refuse to cover you, or charge you more just
because you have a chronic or pre-existing condition. And they can't charge more
for women than for men.

Here are three things to keep in mind about the Health Insurance Marketplace:

* It's an easier way to shop for health insurance. The Health Insurance
Marketplace simplifies your search for insurance by gathering all your options
in one place. One application, one time, and you and your family can explore
every qualified insurance plan in your area -- including any free or low-cost
insurance programs you may qualify for, such as Medi-Cal or the Children's
Health Insurance Program.

* Most people will be able to get a break on costs. Programs that lower costs
are available for almost everyone. You may be eligible for a free or low-cost
plan, or a new kind of tax credit that lowers your monthly premiums right away.
New rules and expanded programs mean that even working families can get help
paying for health insurance at the Marketplace.

* Clear, apples-to-apples comparisons. All health insurance plans in the
Marketplace present their price and benefit information in simple terms you can
understand, so you don't have to guess about your costs.

Starting on Oct. 1, you'll be able to enroll in a health plan through Covered
California. Detailed information will be available about all the insurance plans
offered in your area.

You can sign up now atwww.CoveredCa.com to get email updates that will let you
know how to get ready to enroll in the plan of your choice.

If you have difficulty finding a plan that meets your needs and budget, there
will be people available to give you personalized help with your choices. These
helpers aren't associated with any particular plan, and they don't receive any
type of commission, so the help they give you will be completely unbiased.

The Covered California website will offer much more than any health insurance
website you've used before. Insurance companies will compete for your business
on a level and transparent playing field, with no hidden costs or misleading
fine print. You'll have more choice, more control and more clout when it comes
to health insurance.

Insurance coverage offered through Covered California takes effect on Jan. 1,
2014.

------

David Sayen is Medicare's regional administrator for California, Arizona,
Hawaii, Nevada, and the Pacific Trust Territories. You can always get answers to
your Medicare questions by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227).

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                             April 5, 2008 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Health care cost spikes are sharper for small firms

BYLINE: By JAN NORMAN; The Orange County Register

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. BizTheme_A

LENGTH: 229 words


Health insurance costs increased 30 percent from 2000 to 2005 at the smallest
U.S. businesses, the biggest jump among companies of all sizes, according to a
report released Friday by the Rand Corp. in Santa Monica with funding from the
Kauffman Foundation, which promotes entrepreneurship.

"Employer-based health insurance may become unaffordable if costs continue to
grow," concludes the report, "The Economic Burden of Providing Health Insurance:
How Much Worse Off Are Small Firms?"

Spending increases for larger companies were 16 percent to 25 percent depending
on number of employees.

The study looked at companies' health insurance spending relative to payroll
from 2000 through 2005. Businesses with fewer than 25 employees spent 11 percent
of payroll on health insurance, compared with 7 percent for companies with 25 to
49 employees, 9 percent for companies with 50-99 employees and 10 percent for
companies with 100-plus employees.

The study found no evidence that companies dropped health insurance as the costs
increased.

"These findings suggest that firms and their employees were willing to shoulder
the burden of rising health insurance costs even if it meant giving up increases
in wages," the report said. "This may be particularly true at very small firms,
at which employees appear to be sacrificing a larger share of their wages for a
lower-quality benefit."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 The Orange County Register (California)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 2, 2014 Tuesday

Washington: How Repealing And Replacing Obamacare Would Help Restore Booming
Economic Growth

LENGTH: 2433  words

DATELINE: Washington


The Heartland Institute has issued the following news release:

One of the biggest drags on economic growth under President Obama has been
Obamacare, enacted on a strictly partisan basis in 2010. That drag has come
primarily from the sweeping overregulation of Obamacare.

The biggest culprit has been the employer mandate, which requires all employers
of 50 or more full time workers to buy them health insurance with the terms and
benefits as specified by the federal government. That is effectively a tax on
employment of well over $10,000 a year per worker for family coverage.

Even for employers that already provide health insurance, the employer mandate
will likely be a big tax increase on employment. That is because the mandated
health insurance will most likely cost more than what the employer is already
providing. That results first because the government responds to political
pressure to require generous benefits most people will think the employer is
paying for, to be include in the mandated health insurance. That drives up the
cost of the mandatory health insurance.

Secondly, the mandated health insurance is subjected to costly overregulation
involving guaranteed issue and community rating. Guaranteed issue requires
insurers to sell their health insurance to everyone that applies, regardless of
how sick and costly they are when they first apply, such as those who already
have cancer or heart disease. That is like requiring fire insurance companies to
sell their fire insurance to buyers who call up after their house has already
caught on fire.

Community rating requires health insurers to sell that insurance at the same
standard rates as for everyone else, regardless of how sick and costly the
buyers are when they first apply for the insurance. That is like requiring fire
insurers to sell fire insurance at the same standard rates as for anyone else,
to buyers after their houses have already caught on fire.

Of course, the standard rates for such fire insurance are going to be very high.
The same will be true for health insurance subject to such regulation. There are
better, far less costly ways of assuring that health insurance is available to
everyone, including those with costly preconditions.

This employer mandate employment tax is reducing job and wage growth. Moreover,
to further avoid that costly tax on employment, millions of workers across the
country have been reduced to part time work of 29 hours a week or less, because
the definition of a full time worker in the Obamacare legislation is 30 hours a
week or more. That is driving down the net wages and incomes of middle class and
working people, and increasing inequality as a result. Small companies around
the 50 worker threshold are also restraining growth and employment for the same
reasons. All of this has been killing economic growth, stunting the recovery,
and greatly extending the misery of the recession well beyond previous
recessions.

The individual mandate is increasing costs of health insurance in the individual
health insurance market as well, for the same reasons. President Obama was quick
to claim credit for Obamacare for supposedly restraining the growth of health
costs. But that health cost slowdown he cited actually started back in 2003,
when Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) were adopted by the then GOP Congress, as I
will explain below. Barack Obama was an Illinois State Senator back then, and
Obamacare was just a gleam in his eye.

So both the employer mandate and the individual mandate are effective tax
increases, which are a drag on economic growth. Obamacare is financed by another
half trillion in tax increases, which are also anti-growth.

How to Repeal and Replace Obamacare

But Obamacare can be replaced by free market, Patient Power, health care reforms
based on sharply expanding patient power, control and choice over their own
health care, which would assure health care for all (unlike Obamacare), with no
employer mandate, no individual mandate, and sharply reduced taxes, federal
spending and regulation. That would reverse the above anti-growth effects of
Obamacare, and contribute to booming economic growth and recovery. Such Patient
Power reforms have long been advocated by John Goodman, long time President of
the National Center for Policy Analysis in Dallas.

The centerpiece of such Patient Power reforms would be to extend the same tax
preference for employer provided health insurance to everyone, in the form of a
refundable, universal, health insurance tax credit for all of roughly $2,500 per
year ($8,000 for family coverage) for the purchase of private health insurance.
The credit would not be meant to pay for the entire cost of such insurance, but
only to help pay for it, just as the tax preference for employer provided
insurance does not pay the entire cost of such insurance, but only helps pay for
it.

There would be no government mandate of any sort to use the credit to buy any
particular insurance with any particular terms or benefits. Each worker would be
free to use the credit to buy the health insurance of the worker's own choice,
such as Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), discussed further below.

Workers would even be free to choose to use the credit to buy into coverage
through Medicaid if they desired. The credit amount is equal to the CBO
estimated average cost of adding one additional person to Medicaid coverage.
This one feature assures coverage for all those with any pre-existing condition,
because they could always choose Medicaid coverage, which includes anyone
regardless of any pre-existing condition. But few would be expected to choose
Medicaid, because of the fundamental problems of Medicaid as discussed below.
Indeed, people would also be free to choose to use the credit to leave Medicaid
for the purchase of any private health insurance of their choice, including
HSAs.

The $2,500 credit would effectively operate as a reverse penalty in terms of
lost opportunity cost for failing to use it. The taxpayer would effectively then
leave $2,500 on the table in terms of his personal finances.

But socially, the amount of any unused credits would be sent to local safety net
hospitals and clinics serving the poor in the local area. For example, if 1000
people in Dallas did not use the credit to buy any health insurance, $2,500,000
would be sent to safety net hospitals and clinics in Dallas specializing in
serving the poor.

The second component of the Patient Power reforms would be to transfer control
over Medicaid to the states, with the federal financing of the program provided
through fixed, finite, block grants to each state, as under the enormously
successful 1996 welfare reforms of the old, New Deal, Aid to Families with
Dependent Children (AFDC) program. Currently, the federal financing for Medicaid
is provided under a matching federal financing formula, paying more to each
state the more the state spends on Medicaid. That is like the federal government
paying the states to spend more on Medicaid.

Under the fixed, finite, block grant formula, the state knows that if its
redesigned, state, Medicaid program costs more, it is going to pay 100% of the
difference. But if the program costs less, it would keep 100% of the savings.
These are ideal incentives for each state to weigh the costs against the
benefits for Medicaid spending, and only pursue the spending that was
worthwhile.

Preferably, each state would use its power under the Medicaid block grants to
provide assistance to the poor through health insurance vouchers that could be
used by the poor to supplement the universal health insurance tax credit to help
the beneficiary to purchase the private health insurance of his or her choice,
including HSAs. The voters of each state would then be free to determine how
much assistance at what income levels would be necessary to assure that the
state's poor could buy essential health insurance, which would be very different
for Mississippi and Louisiana than for New York and California, given their
widely varying health cost structures, and income distributions.

Such Medicaid reform would be enormously beneficial for the poor. Medicaid
currently pays so little to the doctors and hospitals to provide essential
health care to the poor that they often face grave difficulties in finding
timely, essential health care under the program. But with private health
insurance purchased with the help of the universal health insurance tax credit,
supplemented for the poor with Medicaid health insurance vouchers, the poor
would enjoy the same health care as the middle class, because they would have
the same health insurance as the middle class, which is forced by competitive
market pressures to pay enough to the doctors and hospitals to ensure that those
covered by the insurance can get timely, essential health care. This would mean
an enormous gain for the poor as compared to the current Medicaid program.

As another safety net component of the Obamacare replacement plan, states would
also be free to use a limited part of the Medicaid block grant funds to set up
Uninsurable Risk Pools for those uninsured who had contracted costly preexisting
conditions such as cancer or heart disease while uninsured. Any uninsured who
could not obtain health insurance in the market for this reason would be able to
obtain full coverage from the Uninsurable Risk Pool for an affordable fee based
on the applicant's ability to pay, which is necessary for the pool to serve as a
safety net program. State taxpayers and part of the Medicaid block grant funds
would subsidize the pool to cover all costs not covered by the fees charged to
those covered by the pool.

Over 30 states have set up similar Uninsurable Risk Pools, and they have proven
by experience to be a low cost means of covering those who could not obtain
coverage in the market because of costly pre-existing conditions. That is
because only a very small percentage of the population ever becomes truly
uninsurable in the private market.

These reforms would assure universal health care for all. Everyone would have
the universal health insurance tax credit, the poor would receive additional
assistance to purchase private coverage, and everyone would continue to be
backed up by Medicaid and the Uninsurable Risk Pools as safety nets. By
contrast, Obamacare fails to achieve universal coverage, as CBO projects that
even after 10 years, Obamacare would still leave 30 million Americans uninsured,
and without any assured access to health care.

Health Savings Accounts

The health cost control functions of Obamacare would also be achieved far more
effectively through HSAs and market competition. With an HSA, instead of all the
money going to an insurance company, the insured pays only enough to purchase
coverage with a high deductible, around the range of $5,000 to $6,000 a year or
more. The health insurance then pays for all health care costs above that annual
deductible.

The substantial cost savings from purchasing such high deductible insurance is
then saved in the HSA to pay for health costs below the deductible. Whatever is
not spent from the HSA can be withdrawn after a year and spent on anything, or
saved tax free for health care in future years, and for retirement.
Consequently, whatever the worker spends on health care from his HSA is
effectively his own money.

That will leave him with full market incentives to control costs. He will
question what health care is necessary, seek second opinions, and explore less
costly alternatives. Moreover, since the patients now have full market
incentives to control costs, doctors and hospitals will compete to control
costs, the more patients in the marketplace have HSAs.

These HSA incentives have proven very effective in controlling costs in the real
world. The Republican Congress passed modern HSAs in 2003. Since then, HSA
coverage has been exploding, doubling year after year. Today, 30 million
Americans have HSAs. And the slowdown in the growth of health costs first buds
after HSAs were passed, and builds along with that growth in HSA coverage.

These HSAs are the classic Patient Power reform, because the patient has maximum
power, choice and control over the HSA funds. The Patient Power alternative to
Obamacare would expand the HSA option throughout the entire health care system.
Workers even with employer provided coverage could use the universal health
insurance tax credit to purchase preferred health insurance of their choice,
which would include HSAs. This gives workers a market check on the power of
employers over their health insurance, as the incentive of employers is to
choose the coverage that works best for them rather than their employees. The
universal credit could also be used to opt out of Medicaid for HSAs.

Also under the Medicaid block grants, the poor could use the health insurance
vouchers to purchase HSAs if they prefer. Retirees should also be assured of the
freedom to choose HSAs under Medicare Part C. Through these reforms, virtually
everyone would enjoy the freedom to choose HSAs if they prefer. That, and the
market competition between the alternative choices among the different insurers
in all these markets would restrain the growth in health costs far more
effectively than Obamacare, which only works to increase health costs.

Booming Economic Growth Through Health Care Reform

Repealing and replacing Obamacare with the above Patient Power reforms would
further contribute to booming economic growth, in addition to previous reforms I
have advocated in recent weeks in this column. Repealing Obamacare would
automatically involve a tax cut of 16% in the capital gains tax, and in the
taxation of corporate dividends. That would promote the capital investment that
creates jobs and increases wages. It would also cut the top rate of the Medicare
payroll tax by roughly one fourth, which would also create jobs and increase
wages.

It would also end the effective taxation involved in the employer mandate and
the individual mandate, again increasing jobs and wages. The millions of
Americans now reduced to part time work would be liberated to find full time
jobs again, restoring millions of middle class incomes. The restrained growth of
health costs would also liberate businesses to invest more in job creation, and
directly increase wages. That would result both from repealing the cost
increasing effects of Obamacare, as well as from the cost restraining features
of the replacement reforms.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Southland Times (New Zealand)

                              March 9, 2015 Monday

Insurance firms push health plan

BYLINE: ROB STOCK

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 598 words


Starting a new job could in the future also see you being automatically enrolled
in a personal health insurance plan.

The KiwiSaver-style approach to boosting the number of people with private
health insurance could take pressure off the state health system, according to a
report to be published on Monday.

The report by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research (NZIER) canvasses
the policy options politicians have to encourage people to buy their own private
health insurance.

One option would be to mimic an aspect of KiwiSaver and auto- enrol people in a
health insurance plan when they start a new job.

The NZIER report was paid for by the Health Funds Association, the lobby group
for health insurers like Southern Cross, nib, and Sovereign.

With an ageing population, government spending on healthcare is rising, and
there will be growing pressure to further ration services and encourage people
to pay more of their own healthcare costs, says NZIER.

Health insurance pays for the costs of things like surgery and hospital stays
for people who pay premiums every month, saving the state of the cost of their
care. But the number of people with health insurance has been falling following
large rises in premiums driven by higher medical costs.

NZIER canvassed a range of options, but found the "most promising" to be "a
KiwiSaver- style" scheme. "This option would involve legislation requiring that
all employers provide access to health insurance for employees and their
families," NZIER says.

Auto-enrolment, or "soft compulsion" would aim to overcome people's "status quo
bias", while allowing them to opt out, if they want to.

Auto-enrolment could be made even more effective by offering a "targeted
enrolment subsidy" and requiring employers to pay part of the premiums, NZIER
said. The subsidy would not be available for people who already have health
insurance.

NZIER looked at a general subsidy for people already paying for private health
insurance, but said it would not deliver a big enough reduction in the
government's healthcare spending to justify the expense.

Similarly, NZIER found that removing fringe benefit tax on employees whose
employer pays some or all of their health insurance premiums was not likely to
provide savings for the taxpayer.

If there was no appetite for a KiwiSaver-like option, lawmakers could instead
require employers to offer health insurance to new employees and just let the
employee decide whether to take it out or not.

Health insurers have been struggling with the fall-off in the numbers of people
with insurance and have in the past lobbied for fringe benefit tax breaks on
premiums, and for tax breaks for the elderly on their insurance.

Roger Styles, chief executive of the Health Funds Association, said the report
found that health insurance could play a big part in funding future healthcare
costs, and that there were big productivity gains to be had from helping people
return to work faster.

Styles said that NZIER has found that increasing the number of workers covered
by health insurance by 20 per cent could save around $60 million to $110m in
lost output, because they would get treated faster than on the state.

NZIER also considered whether adopting an Australian- style "tax surcharge" on
higher- income earners who do not have health insurance. Fifty-six per cent of
people earning $70,000 or more do not have private health insurance. Fairfax NZ

--------------------

CAPTION:

The number of people with health insurance has been falling as a result of large
rises in premiums driven by higher medical costs.

Picture: 123rf.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            February 9, 1992, Sunday

Bush fails grade on health care

BYLINE: By John Lewispolitics; government; Georgia; insurance; health; medicine

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Section F; Page 5

LENGTH: 657 words


Mr. Lewis represents Georgia's 5th District in the U.S. House.

Washington - President Bush has finally come kicking and screaming to the table
with what he calls is an answer to the No. 1 issue in America today, health
care.

But he has demonstrated once again that he really doesn't have any idea how most
Americans live, how most Americans feel, what most Americans want, what most
Americans need. He is a day late and a dollar short.

Mr. Bush proposed a tax credit of $ 3,750 per family to cover the cost of health
insurance. He has no idea that most Americans cannot afford to write a check for
$ 3,750 (or $ 312 per month) to buy health insurance, even if they will receive
a tax credit at the end of the year.

Neither does he have any idea, apparently, that $ 3,750 will not cover the cost
of health insurance for a family. Estimates are that the cost of health
insurance for a family of four next year will be $ 5,500.

It should be pointed out that Mr. Bush is talking about health insurance, not
health care. He has made proposals designed to make health insurance - not
health care - more accessible.

Indeed, the health-insurance companies are big winners in the president's plan.
They would get lots of new customers, including the self-employed, who would be
entitled to full tax deductions for their medical-insurance premiums.

It is health care that is the real issue for most Americans. Health care is not
accessible to everyone. It just costs too much to get health care.

What has the president proposed to make health care more affordable? Nothing. He
has proposed no real cost-containment measures.

The proposals that Mr. Bush did make will cost us about $ 100 billion. He never
said exactly where the money would come from. However, he did say that he would
like to cut back on Medicare and Medicaid - have the poor and the elderly pay
for his reforms.

And, what about home health care and long-term health care? He seems to have
"reformed" them right out of the picture. Or perhaps, the people who need that
kind of care were never in Mr. Bush's picture - just like children, one-fourth
of whom do not have access to heaklth care.

Mr. Bush has proposed nothing to ensure that our children are guaranteed access
to health care. Indeed, teaching hospitals and public hospitals, which serve
many of our nation's children, would have some of their special allowances cut
under the president's plan.

Mr. Bush claimed his plan "meets the common sense test." I don't know who he has
been talking to or where he has been, but common sense tells me - and the
majority of Americans - that everyone needs to have access to quality and
affordable health care. Mr. Bush's plan doesn't give us that.

The president said that the Democrats' health-care plans would "shovel" us into
a bureaucracy that we don't need. Well, that's what was said about Social
Security in the 1930s, about the civil rights acts in the 1960s. Thank goodness,
greater minds prevailed.

Health care is serious business. It is the thing that worries us most: Can I get
quality care? Can I afford it? Will my family be able to get medical treatment
when they need it? What will happen to my mother, who has long-term health care
needs? These are serious concerns.

The American people don't want to have their concerns relegated to absurd
metaphors. We deserve better than that. We deserve serious, well- thought-out
and realistic solutions. The president's plan fails to give us that.

Health care is a right - not a privilege. It is something to which all of us -
not just the privileged - are entitled. Americans should not have to choose
between paying the doctor and the rent.

I propose that we stop looking for a painless, quick-fix solution to the
health-care crisis in our country. We need to face the problem of providing
quality health care for all Americans. Let's get down to the hard and serious
work of real comprehensive reform.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Lewis

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                              135 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                          November 18, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Government's health insurance model is a textbook case of flawed policy making

BYLINE: Sara Burke

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1011 words


THIS Government promised universal healthcare its 2011 Programme for Government.
It said everybody would have free GP care by 2016, and compulsory universal
health insurance would start in 2016 and be completed by 2019.

The 2014 White Paper on Universal Health Insurance stated that this system would
not cost more than the current system.

New costings by the ESRI show that the model of universal health insurance, as
proposed by Government, would cost between (EURO)666m and (EURO)2bn more than we
currently pay for healthcare.

These figures are not new, they were published on the pages of this paper last
July. What is new is that they have been officially published six months after
the dated copy seen by this author. And a memo went to Cabinet on them
yesterday.

This Government's universal health insurance model was based on competing
private insurers increasing health system efficiency, which in turn was meant to
drive down healthcare costs.

The ESRI finds no basis for this assumption. Its research reiterates other
well-known international research - that countries which finance their
healthcare through health insurance systems are more expensive. The ESRI
costings conclude that the major driver of the additional cost is the model of
"multiple, competing insurers" and that private health insurers' margins are
driving those costs. In 2013, private health insurers' margins were (EURO)300m.

Obviously, insuring more people for more services would further drive up the
total of health insurance margins in Ireland.

The ESRI research also states that under the Government's proposed model, 70pc
of healthcare expenditure would remain taxfunded. Currently, 74pc of Irish
healthcare is tax-funded. So it wouldn't really be a health insurance system at
all.

And not everything would be covered. For example, under the most generous range
of services assessed by the ESRI, people would still pay on average (EURO)379
out-of-pocket per year for essential healthcare.

The Government's insurance model of competing private insurers was a win-win for
Fine Gael. It enabled the party to promise what no government had done before -
universal healthcare for all - as well as maintaining and increasing the profits
of private health insurance companies.

Once again, Irish health policy has provided a textbook case on how not to make
public policy. In the run up to the 2014 election, Fine Gael decided to adopt
the Dutch model of healthcare. The Dutch system was then and still is ranked the
best in the world by a private company consumer index. However, years after
implementing this model of universal health insurance, costs have rocketed and
increasingly services are rationed.

Remember, the pre-election YouTube clips of Enda Kenny and his loyal supporter
James Reilly touring empty Dutch hospital corridors with no trolleys.

However, it turned out that Fine Gael had spent 14 years in the long grass of
opposition politics without working out any of the detail of its new big idea.
To add insult to injury, it then spent the first three years of government
continuing to avoid the detail.

When the Government eventually published its 'White Paper on Universal Health
Insurance' on April 1, 2014, quite extraordinarily, it had no costings or no
decision as to what services were to be included under its universal health
insurance system. The Coalition then commissioned the ESRI to do these costings.

The ESRI costings research cautiously recommends the current model to be
reviewed and further research to be carried out.

However, the only conclusion one can reasonably make from the ESRI's work is
that the model of universal health insurance as proposed is not viable, and that
it is overly expensive, largely because of profitable insurance companies'
margins.

Interestingly, it also finds that addressing unmet need would cost less than
delivering that model.

There are huge amounts of unmet need in Ireland due to long waiting times for
services, the high costs which act as a barrier to accessing care and the sheer
unavailability of some aspects of essential care for significant parts of the
population. Much of this is driven by the twotier nature of healthcare in
Ireland which favours those with money over those without.

There is no question that universal healthcare for all will cost more, because
more care will have to be provided to those who do not currently get it.

However, Ireland remains the only European country without universal primary
care and one of the very few OECD countries without universal healthcare. Many
countries who spend the same or less than us have universal access.

In January of this year, Health Minister Leo Varadkar stated his health
priorities. One of them was to "complete the costings analysis (of universal
health insurance) and revert to Government with a roadmap for next steps".

Speaking recently at the Institute of Chartered Accountants, the minister
admitted that the costs of the Government's original model of universal health
insurance outweigh the benefits, that it would have been wrong to introduce it
during the financial crisis, and "that neither the Exchequer nor families would
have been able to bear the considerable additional cost in terms of subsidies or
increased insurance premia".

He went on to say the "delivery of universal healthcare is no easy challenge but
it is achievable. It is surely the greatest goal we have yet to achieve in our
efforts to build a just society".

The universal health insurance model adopted by this Government was the wrong
one. But its intention of universal healthcare was right.

The challenge now is for the next government, whatever its make-up, to work out
the best way to achieve universal healthcare - is it through a one-tiered,
tax-funded system or a single-payer insurance model? In the meantime, the least
the Government could do is admit that its flawed model of universal health
insurance is a shambles and tell us its plan B for achieving its 2011 promise of
universal healthcare.

FG spent 14 years in opposition without working out the detail of its new big
idea

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Town tackles health plans;
Insurance for part-time elected officials questioned

BYLINE: Ellie Oleson, CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1082 words


At his second selectmen's meeting, newly elected Oxford Selectman Michael Voas
brought up a rarely discussed, and little known, sacred cow that costs taxpayers
in several communities thousands of dollars annually.

Mr. Voas does not think town taxpayers should foot the health insurance bill for
part-time elected officials. The policy will be discussed at tonight's board
meeting.Mr. Voas said selectmen's policy allows any compensated elected official
to have town insurance. The chairman of the Board of Selectmen receives $1,100
per year; other selectmen get $1,000 per year; and the moderator receives $200
per year, making all six eligible for health insurance.

"Six people could cost us $100,000 a year, if they all signed up," Mr. Voas
said.

Town records in Oxford show that the annual premiums on individual plans range
from $7,282 to $9,126, and family plans cost $18,935 to $23,564. An employee or
elected official who started work before July 1, 2006, pays 20 percent of that
cost, while anyone hired or elected after that date pays 25 percent.

Two Oxford selectmen, Jennie L. Caissie and Dennis E. Lamarche, and the town
moderator, Russell C. Rheault, said they are on the town's insurance. Ms.
Caissie and Mr. Rheault have individual plans through the town.

Oxford Selectman John G. Saad, who does not have town insurance, said, "This has
been the town's policy since long before I joined the board. It's always been a
benefit. Back then, health insurance wasn't as costly as it is now."

Ms. Caissie, a member of the Governor's Council and a lawyer with a small law
firm in Southbridge, said, "I will be happy to tell anyone that I get town
health insurance. A selectman's seat is not a volunteer position. I put in the
time and work as hard as I can for this town, and I accepted a benefit that was
offered. I didn't even know insurance was available when I first ran."

Mr. Voas said health insurance is offered to elected officials at the will of
selectmen. He said he would "absolutely not take it myself." And he added that
"what we do is not worth $16,000 per year of taxpayers' money. It is an honor to
serve."

Oxford is not the only town to offer this benefit, though many communities have
opted out of the perk.

According to the Massachusetts Department of Revenue, state law requires that
all town employees, elected or not, who work 20 hours or more per week must be
offered health insurance, but a town or city "may, at its discretion, offer
health insurance to elected officials who work less than 20 hours per week."

In Worcester, elected city councilors and school committee members are eligible
for city health insurance. An employee of the treasurer's office said six of
those officials take advantage of the benefit. A worker there, however, would
not release the names of elected officials receiving health insurance benefits.

Charlton, Paxton and Northbridge once offered health insurance to part-time
elected officials, but no longer do because of the high cost of health insurance
. Webster does not offer the perk, nor does Millbury.

James M. Kreidler Jr., town manager of Winchendon, said, "We do not now, and as
far as I'm concerned, we will never offer town health insurance to part-time
elected officials."

Auburn does offer health insurance to part-time elected officials who are paid.
This means selectmen, Board of Health members and the town moderator, who
receives $296 per year, are eligible. In the past, elected officials have taken
town insurance, but "no currently serving elected officials are on town
insurance, though one selectperson may start town insurance as of July 1," said
Debra A. Dubois in Auburn's Human Resources Department.

The assistant town manager in Auburn, Edward J. Kazanovicz, said the cost of
town insurance varies, depending on when an employee or official was hired or
elected and which plan is chosen. The total annual premium for an individual
plan ranges from $7,761 to $9,834, and a family plan costs $19,707 to $25,050.
Active employees hired before Nov. 8, 2004, pay 10 percent of the cost of
insurance for an individual policy, and all other workers pay 24 percent.
Retirees pay 20 percent.

In Holden, selectmen's records show that selectmen and the moderator are
eligible for town insurance, but only one elected official takes town health
insurance.

In 2007, Lunenburg had two selectmen and two assessors on town health insurance,
at a cost of about $40,000 per year. The Stipend Review Committee recommended
stopping the benefit and ending stipends for elected officials. Selectmen voted
to end the benefit, according to Laura Dunbar Williams, chief administrative
assistant.

Upton selectmen voted in 2004 to make compensated elected officials eligible for
town insurance, but town meeting refused to approve the plan, even though
participating officials would have had to pay 100 percent of their premiums.
Town Manager Blythe Robinson said no health insurance is being offered to
elected, part-time officials in that town.

In 1999, Spencer selectmen voted 3-2 to allow part-time elected officials to be
covered by town health insurance, but that vote was quickly overturned. Spencer
does not offer health insurance to any part-time employees, elected or not.

Westminster paid a portion of part-time elected officials' health insurance
until 2005, but does not offer the benefit today.

Shrewsbury offers health insurance to selectmen, but none is on town insurance,
except one who has town coverage through his wife, a town employee.

In 1993, West Brookfield selectmen voted to grandfather in elected officials and
part-time employees on the town's health plan, which paid 75 percent of health
insurance costs. According to Johanna Barry, executive secretary, the town still
pays health insurance for "a few of these grandfathered employees." She said any
part-time elected officials who want town insurance would have to pay "100
percent of costs plus administration fees," though none is on town insurance.

Dudley selectmen voted to remove part-time elected officials and employees from
the town's health insurance policy in 1994, reportedly saving the town more than
$100,000 per year.

Mr. Voas said he would like Oxford to join the communities that have eliminated
the costly benefit. "We need to lead by example. We have many volunteers who
work very hard and are not compensated one dime. I am not after any individual.
This is a good-faith effort to save the town money. These are hard times. That
money is needed elsewhere."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Register Guard

               Distributed by Knight/Ridder Tribune News Service

                             March 9, 2006 Thursday

Oregon survey shows full-time jobs with large employers have best benefits

BYLINE: Sherri Buri McDonald, The Register-Guard, Eugene, Ore.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 651 words


Mar. 9--If a job's benefits, such as paid vacation and health insurance, matter
as much to you as the paycheck itself, then a new state survey has some advice
for you: Stick with full-time work at a large employer in manufacturing, or
financial or professional services.

And stay away from part-time work, especially in the leisure and hospitality
industry, construction, and logging, according to the survey released Monday by
the state Employment Department.

For part-timers, the prospect for getting good benefits is slim.

Three-quarters of surveyed Oregon firms offer no paid vacation leave to
part-timers; 80 percent offer them no health insurance; and 80 percent offer
them no retirement plan.

The study didn't examine what types of employees are more likely to work part
time. However, a 2004 national employment survey found that 32 percent of female
employees worked part time, versus 17 percent of their male counterparts. A
quarter of employees age 20 to 24 worked part time; and 30 percent of employees
55 and older worked part time.

Even if you work full time -- typically 40 or more hours a week -- there's no
guarantee that you'll score a generous, comprehensive benefits package, the
Oregon survey showed.

A quarter of private-sector employers don't offer paid vacation leave to
full-timers; one third don't offer them paid holidays; 40 percent don't offer
them health insurance; and 60 percent offer them no retirement plan.

The business community for years has been asking the state for assemble
Oregon-specific data on employment benefits.

"We produce data on average wage by industry, but the portion of compensation
that we haven't had (in our surveys) is benefits," said Art Ayre, state
employment economist who wrote the new report. An increasing number of states
have been crunching those numbers, so, "We decided it was time to get on the
bandwagon and do this," he said.

Benefits have been a crucial topic for years among employees, who often shop for
work based in part on health insurance and retirement packages.

The department conducted the study last fall by surveying nearly 7,000 Oregon
firms spanning all geographic areas, company sizes and industry types.

The rising cost of health insurance continues to be a major concern for Oregon
employers and employees alike. Together, the employers and employees paid an
average cost of $350 a month per employee for health insurance plans, the survey
found.

Rising costs have driven about two-thirds of Oregon employers in the past year
to change the health insurance plans offered employees, the survey found.

Ayre said his most surprising finding was that the smaller the firm, the more
likely it was to pay all of its enrolled employees' health insurance costs.

More than two-thirds of firms with two to nine employees paid the full cost for
their full-time workers' health insurance. But only about a quarter of firms
with 500 or more employees said they bore the entire cost. The survey didn't ask
employers why.

Another puzzling finding was that not all employees who are offered a health
insurance plan enroll in it. A quarter of full-time employees who are offered
health insurance decline to enroll in the plan, and 60 percent of part-timers
decline if offered health insurance.

Cost could be a factor. At least a third of employers with health insurance
require the employee to pay all or some of the cost. Also, some employees might
not sign up because their spouse already has health insurance.

Copies of the study are available at www.QualityInfo.org.

To see more of The Register-Guard, Eugene, Ore., or to subscribe to the
newspaper, go to http://www.registerguard.com. Copyright (c) 2006, The
Register-Guard, Eugene, Ore. Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.
For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060309-EU-JOB-BENEFITS-20060309

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EU


                       Copyright 2006 The Register Guard


                              138 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                       Low-Cost-Health-Insurance-Plan.com

                       777 S. Flagler Drive  Suite 500 E
                           West Palm Beach,  FL 33401
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (561) 671-2555
URL: www.low-cost-health-insurance-plan.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Low Cost Health Insurance Plan strives to help you find affordable health
insurance coverage to fit your needs. With rising healthcare costs in the United
States, finding the right insurance coverage for you and your family or business
can be quite a feat. Fortunately, Low Cost Health Insurance Plan has the
connections to get you the quotes that allow you to make a well-researched and
informed decision. Simply fill out our short quote form, and Low Cost Health
Insurance Plan will be able to connect you with health insurance agents licensed
in your area who can help you compare your options. Remember, you must fill out
accurate information on the form in order to receive an accurate quote.  Don't
let expensive premiums keep you from protecting your most prized possessions -
your family and your health. Let Low Cost Health Insurance Plan help you find
the coverage you need at a price you can afford!

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                              139 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

Health care costs assailed // Insurers' lobbyist says true reform is still
lacking

BYLINE: Steven H. Foskett Jr.

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. B12

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


WORCESTER - A top lobbyist for the health insurance industry told the Worcester
Economic Club's annual meeting last night that while the recently passed federal
health care legislation succeeded in offering all Americans health care,
legislators failed to properly address health care costs.

Karen Ignagni, president and CEO of America's Health Insurance Plans, said that
once people realize that health care reform as it stands is not economically
feasible, politicians will be compelled to take more forceful action. She said
measures in the legislation that institute caps for the health insurance
industry are akin to selling a car at a fixed price, regardless of price
increases in the cost of tires or materials.

"Politicians have got to begin to develop the political will to look at rising
health care costs, what's driving them, and what we can do about it," Ms.
Ignagni told the packed ballroom at the Beechwood Hotel.

Ms. Ignagni said the health insurance industry and other health care groups made
a decision early in the legislative process not to fight change, but to look at
where there could be improvements.

She said the coalition of health care industry groups pledged to take 1 to 1.5
percent off future rates of growth that would have saved $2.2 trillion in health
care costs, but the ensuing Washington deal-making prevented true cost
containment. Ms. Ignagni said about halfway through the year, the health care
reform debate morphed from being about health care reform to being about health
insurance reform. She said it was a lost opportunity to take on the cost issue.

She said politicians may feel a backlash this fall, when cuts to the Medicare
Advantage program start to take effect. She said cuts to Medicare, combined with
new taxes included in the legislation, will come as a shock to some.

Ms. Ignagni said true health care reform will happen when costs are brought
under control.

ART: PHOTO

CUTLINE: Karen Ignagni talks with Richard Burke, left, president of the
Worcester Economic Club, and Pat Hughes, CEO of Fallon Community Health Plan, at
a reception last night.

PHOTOG: T&G Staff/STEVE LANAVA

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORCESTER - A top lobbyist for the health insurance industry told the
Worcester Economic Club's annual meeting last night that while the recently
passed federal health care legislation succeeded in offering all Americans
health care, legislators failed to properly address health care costs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              April 1, 2016 Friday
                               Bangalore Edition

BITTER PILL High costs dull health cover appeal: Survey

SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS

LENGTH: 287 words


Non-affordability is turning out to be a major deterrent in purchase of health
insurance despite high awareness of the rising cost of treatment and about the
incidence of critical illnesses. This also results in many owning health
insurance policies dropping out at the time of renewal.

According to a survey conducted by Future Generali Insurance, customers do
understand that healthcare costs have risen. A majority of the respondents in
the poll feel that healthcare expenditure is growing at a faster clip than
household income.

Also, over 70% of the re

spondents know of a family member who received treatment on account of a
critical llness. Yet, when it comes to buying health insurance, many continue to
be deterred by the costs. Among youngsters in the age group 18

25, around 42% did not buy health insurance because of he high premium rates.

In the age group 26-35, 64% of those polled said that he premium was expensive.

n this age group, 19% have bought health insurance and have let their policy
lapse because of higher rates.Among older people, over half of those polled said
that

they do not buy health insurance because of the cost.

The inability to control medical inflation is resulting in the cost of health
insurance rising every three years.This is a double whammy for the buyer as
rates in any case go up with age. As a result, many low-income policyholders are
dropping out.

What exposes Indians further to health risks is lack of fitness and a tendency
to avoid routine checks and diagnostics unless there is a medical emergency .
The survey shows a third of youngsters (below 25 years) do not exercise while
another third go for walks and the rest either engage in brisk walking or other
kinds of exercises.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             April 28, 2015 Tuesday

How will health insurance rating system affect me?

BYLINE: Conor Pope

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 750 words


Calls to health insurance companies have increased by as much as 500 per cent as
people scramble for cover before the introduction of Lifetime Community Rating
(LCR) later this week.

The deadline for people aged over 34 to take out health insurance for the first
time without being penalised on age grounds is midnight on Thursday and all four
companies in the private health insurance market - VHI, GloHealth, Laya and
Aviva - have reported a massive surge in people making contact.

I don't have health insurance and am hearing talk of a deadline. Should I be
concerned? It depends on how old you are and whether or not you ever intend to
take out private health insurance.

Explain. If you are in you mid-20s and don't really want health insurance then
the arrival of LCR won't make much difference to you. If, however, you are 34 or
older, then LCR could make a massive difference to the affordability of private
health insurance now and for a very long time to come. And unless you do
something before midnight on Thursday you might find the cost of your premiums
in the future rocketing.

Remind me what LCR is. Under the new LCR regime which starts on May 1st, anyone
aged over 34 who does not have private health insurance will have to pay higher
prices if and when they do take out a policy.

How much higher? That depends on how much older than 34 they are. For each year
a person goes over that age, they will have to add 2 per cent to the cost of the
annual premium. So if , after the deadline, a 35-year-old takes out a policy
that costs EUR 1,000 they will have to pay EUR 1,020 - the actual price plus a 2
per cent age-related surcharge. If they are 40, the policy will cost EUR 1,120
and EUR 1,320 if they are 50. The maximum loading is 70 per cent for someone
aged 69 or over. That means the EUR 1,000 policy would cost EUR 1,700 for a
70-year-old who takes out insurance for the first time.

But that's just for the first year, right? Wrong. If a person misses the
deadline they will be stuck paying an extra 2-70 per cent for as long as they
hold on to the insurance. This means that a 70-year-old who takes out a EUR
1,000 policy after the deadline and lives to be 100 will pay EUR 21,000 more
over the course of the policy than someone who takes out the policy before the
deadline.

That's a lot of money. Why are they doing this? Actually, for good reasons. We
have a community-based system of health insurance - as opposed to the
risk-weighted system they have in the US and Britain. This means we pay the same
for our insurance regardless of age or state of health - the likelihood of us
needing medical care is not a factor in the cost. This keeps costs down for an
older cohort but the community-based system relies on inter-generational
solidarity. Younger people are needed in the market to keep costs for older
people down. They have been leaving the market in recent years which has put the
system under pressure.

So what do I need to do? If you have put off getting cover and are 35 or older
then seriously consider getting it now.

But health insurance is very expensive, right? It can be but all of the health
insurance companies have launched low-cost plans in recent weeks to get people
to sign up before the deadline. The cost of some annual policies is now less
than EUR 400.  Are they any good? Well, when it comes to health insurance you
get what you pay for. The cheap as chips cover does not cover rooms in private
hospitals but does cover some consultant care. You'll have to pay at least EUR
800 for a decent policy.

So there is no point in getting the cheapest option There is. The new structure
won't impact on upgrading your cover so you could pay for a cheap policy now and
upgrade later. Existing rules restricting your cover to your previous level of
cover for up to three months or up to two years for existing medical conditions
will stay in place.

I had insurance but stopped it two years ago, where do I stand? Previous periods
of cover will be taken into account. If you had cover for five years in your
30s, but cancelled it, and take out insurance now at 50, these five years of
cover will be taken into account. The credit does not apply to periods of cover
as a child.

Anything else? If you stopped your cover on or after January 1st, 2008, because
you were made unemployed, you will get a credit, for up to three years. This
means your loading will be calculated on the basis that you had cover for a
maximum of three years if you were unemployed.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Japan Times

                             May 25, 2010, Tuesday

National health insurance a basic universal safety net

LENGTH: 1008 words


Natsuko Fukue, Staff writer

All Japanese citizens are required by law to be covered by public health
insurance.

Because of this universal system, most medical treatment is covered and the
costs are reasonable.

The first health insurance law took effect in 1927 to protect laborers, and in
1938 the umbrella was extended to farmers, according to the Health, Labor and
Welfare Ministry.

After World War II, many organizations stopped providing health insurance. To
make sure every citizen was covered, the government revised the national health
insurance law in 1958.

Here is some basic information about how the system now works:

What types of public health insurance are available?

There are basically four types. Company employees are mostly under "kenko hoken"
(health insurance), also known as Kenpo, managed by the national health
insurance association or health insurance unions. Civil servants are covered by
mutual aid insurance. Sailors and fishermen have seaman's insurance, while
farmers and other self-employed people must apply for the Kokuho national health
insurance managed by local governments.

Can nonregular workers, including temporary employees and day laborers, also be
insured by Kenpo?

Yes. If temporary workers have a contract exceeding two months and if they work
at least 30 hours or four days a week, they can be covered by the insurance
provided by temp staff dispatching agencies.

Day laborers with a contract of two months or less are covered by special
insurance for day workers, according to the Social Insurance Agency.

Do people on welfare also have to pay into the health insurance program?

No. Their medical costs are fully covered by medical aid, which is a part of
public assistance.

Are dependents of the insured also covered?

Yes. Relatives in the first, second and third degree benefit from the insurance
if they are financially supported by the insured.

How about foreigners?

Foreigners whose length of stay is more than a year and who are not covered
under Kenpo need to apply for the Kokuho coverage. Foreign students should be
covered by Kokuho even if they stay in Japan for less than a year.

Foreign residents are required by law to join one of the health insurance
schemes, but some opt out because they have their own insurance contracts with
private firms or they do not want to pay the fees.

There is no penalty for not joining public insurance. But the Justice Ministry's
Immigration Bureau asks foreign residents to show their public health insurance
cards when applying to renew their visas to urge them to join the health care
system.

Are there people who are not under any public health insurance?

Yes. For example in Saitama Prefecture, 36.4 percent of 962 workers who answered
a questionnaire from the prefecture in March were not covered by public health
insurance because they didn't apply for Kokuho for financial or other reasons.

In 2009, a survey by the city of Yokkaichi, Mie Prefecture, found 24 percent of
473 Brazilian residents in the city had not applied for health insurance because
they couldn't afford the fee. Yokkaichi is known for its high population of
foreign factory workers.

How much are the individual monthly premiums?

They vary a great deal depending on the type of insurance. The monthly Kenpo fee
is based on income. For example, in the case of Kenpo coverage managed by the
national insurance association, the workers' share of the burden - 50 percent of
the total fee - in Tokyo ranges from about yen 2,700 to yen 56,000. The rest is
paid by their employers.

How about for medical treatment?

Patients under 70 years old are required to pay 30 percent and those between 70
and 74 have to pay 10 percent of medical costs, including fees for checkups,
treatment and medicine at a hospital or pharmacy.

People aged 75 and above also pay 10 percent of their medical costs, but the
expenses are deducted from their pensions.

There are basically no medical charges for children whose parents pay into
public health insurance, and each local government sets its own age limit. In
Tokyo, children aged 15 or younger are eligible for free medical treatment in
many municipalities, according to the metropolitan government.

What happens if people covered under Kokuho fall behind on their premiums?

According to the metropolitan government, local governments first send a
reminder. If they still do not pay the fee, they will receive an insurance card
valid only for several weeks to months. They will also be charged in arrears.

Does public health insurance cover all types of checkups, treatment and
medicine?

No. Periodic health checks, vaccines for influenza, mumps, chickenpox and some
infectious diseases, and advanced medical treatment conducted at authorized
university hospitals, are not covered.

Health insurance also doesn't cover the cost of birth control pills.

What if a person has really high medical costs?

If the actual medical cost exceeds the fixed upper limit patients have to pay,
an insurance organization refunds the difference. In average, the monthly limit
is yen 80,100 for patients under 70. If their income is particularly high, the
limit is yen 150,000. Patients who are 70 or above have to pay up to yen 44,400.

How about births?

Regular checkups and the costs for childbirth must come out of pocket. However,
local governments provide various ways to offset these costs. Prefectures offer
yen 420,000 in childbirth assistance, and local governments have their own
financial aid for checkups and births on top of this amount. In the event of a
Caesarean section, the cost is covered by insurance.

Is it true relatives of the insured or their dependents can receive burial fees?

Yes. In the case of Kenpo, yen 50,000 is provided. For those under Kokuho, the
amount of payment varies depending on the local administration.

The Weekly FYI appears Tuesdays (Wednesdays in some areas). Readers are
encouraged to send ideas, questions and opinions to the National News Desk at
hodobu@japantimes.co.jp

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2010 The Japan Times Ltd.


                              143 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      December 9, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Employer Premium, Deductible Cost Growth Slowed Post-ACA, But Employer Health
Insurance Still Claiming Bigger Share of Workers' Income

LENGTH: 592  words


Dec. 9 -- US-based The Commonwealth Fund issued the following news release:

Premiums for employer-sponsored health insurance grew 4.1 percent per year
between 2010 and 2013, following passage of the Affordable Care Act, compared to
5.1 percent per year between 2003 and 2010, before the law was passed, according
to a new Commonwealth Fund report. But since U.S. family incomes have grown even
more slowly, workers are spending more of their income on their employer health
insurance. Since 2003, premium increases have greatly exceeded income growth.
While premiums rose 60 percent between 2003 and 2013, incomes grew only 11
percent. Employee premium contributions, meanwhile, increased 93 percent over
this period.

The report, National Trends in the Cost of Employer Health Insurance Coverage,
2003-2013, analyzes changes in employer-sponsored health insurance over a
10-year period. It finds that deductibles also rose more slowly between 2010 and
2013, growing 7.5 percent per year compared to more than 10 percent per year
between 2003 and 2010.

"As employers struggle to keep health insurance premium costs manageable, they
are asking their workers to pay a larger share of their insurance costs," said
Commonwealth Fund President David Blumenthal, M.D. "The recent slowdowns in
overall health care costs are promising, but clearly they have not translated
into relief for workers, who are spending more of their incomes on health
coverage."

Rising Health Insurance Costs For Workers

According to the report, with increases in health insurance cost growth far
outpacing increases in wages, workers are spending more on their health
insurance:

* Premiums are consuming a higher share of workers' incomes. Average total
premiums for family coverage, including both employer and employee
contributions,  reached $16,029 in 2013, or 23 percent of median family income,
up from 15 percent in 2003. In 2010 and 2013, employee contributions to their
premiums for employee-only, single coverage were 4 percent of median income,
compared to 2 percent in 2003.

* Workers are spending more on premiums. Workers contributed 21 percent on
average to their employer health plan premiums in 2013 for employee-only
coverage-unchanged from 2010, but up from 17 percent since 2003. Even though the
percentages employees contributed were the same between 2010 and 2013, the
actual dollar amounts rose, because premium costs went up. In 2010, employees
contributed $1,021 on average to their health insurance premium; in 2013, they
spent $1,170. Over the 10 years between 2003 and 2013, the report found a 93
percent increase in the dollar amount that workers contributed to their
insurance premiums.

* More workers are paying deductibles, and deductibles are higher. In 2013, 81
percent of workers had deductibles, compared to only 52 percent in 2003. During
this time, average deductibles also more than doubled, rising from $518 in 2003
to $1,025 in 2010 and $1,273 in 2013.  Deductibles comprised 2 percent of median
income in 2003, rising to 4 percent in 2010 and 5 percent in 2013.

"These recent slowdowns in health care cost growth are encouraging because they
are happening even as the Affordable Care Act has given workers better health
insurance coverage," said Sara Collins, Commonwealth Fund Vice President for
Health Care Coverage and Access and the study's lead author. "However, health
care costs are still growing faster than median income, and more clearly needs
to be done to keep health insurance affordable for U.S. families."

Source: The Commonwealth Fund

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                April 21, 2003 Monday All-round Country Edition

Rebate treats public health

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Ian Harper

SECTION: FEATURES-TYPE- FEATURE-COLUMN- OP ED; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 852 words


It has saved money and helped both the private and public hospital systems,
maintains Ian Harper

IN the mid 1980s, one in two Australians was covered by private health insurance
. Australia has always had a mixed public and private hospital system. Private
health insurance is a way of smoothing the cost of private hospital treatment,
swapping an unexpected lump sum payout on private hospital fees for a steady
annual outlay on insurance premiums.

Public hospital treatment in Australia is provided free to users. It is funded
from general taxation revenue. Against the background of free public hospital
treatment, those who opt for private health insurance pay twice for their
hospital care -- once through their taxes and once again through private health
insurance premiums. They do so, presumably, because they value the extra choice
that private hospital treatment affords -- choice over the timing of the
operation and which medical specialists will attend.

The willingness of some Australians to pay twice for hospital care in the
private sector has helped to keep the cost of the public hospital system down
and also to free up access to public hospital treatment. When Australians began
to drop private health insurance during the late '80s and into the '90s, the
effect on public hospital costs was predictable. As the proportion of the
population with private health cover fell from 50 per cent to 30 per cent by
1997-98, the real cost of funding public hospitals rose by more than 75 per cent
over the same period.

By the late '90s, the Howard Government realised that the best way to keep a lid
on public hospital costs was to reverse the steady decline in private health
insurance cover. The Government introduced a series of measures, including a 30
per cent rebate of private health insurance premiums and lifetime health cover,
to encourage people back into private health insurance. It worked -- the
proportion of the population with private health cover rose from 30 per cent to
more than 40 per cent within two years. Over the same period, real public
expenditure on public hospitals levelled off.

In spite of this conspicuous success, there are those who say that the 30 per
cent rebate is a waste of public money. They think the money spent on the rebate
would be better spent on the public hospital system.

Now, it is true that the 30 per cent rebate costs the Government about $2.2
billion a year. But without the rebate and lifetime health cover, the cost of
providing public hospital care was rising at an increasing rate. It would have
been at least $3 billion higher than it was with the private insurance incentive
package in place. Hence the Government is already ahead by $800million a year.

Another way to look at this is to recognise that private hospitals carry a
significant share of the case load of Australia's hospital system. Just as with
private schools, if they didn't exist, the cost of expanding the public system
to carry the extra load would be significant. In the case of private hospitals,
in 2000-01 Australia's private hospitals took on cases that would have cost the
public hospitals about $4.3 billion to treat.

Even if the Government used the rebate monies to expand the public hospital
system, if the dwindling private health insurance system reduced the case load
of the private hospitals by more than half, the Government would be behind. It
would still end up paying more through an expanded public health budget than the
cost of the rebate to encourage the use of the private alternative.

Yet another angle on this issue is the effect of dwindling private health
insurance cover on community rating. The principle of community rating in health
insurance requires that relatively healthy people cross-subsidise the treatment
costs incurred by relatively sick people. In practice, this tends to mean that
younger people cross-subsidise the healthcare costs of the elderly.

As more Australians chose to abandon private health insurance, the composition
of the privately insured population became skewed towards the elderly and those
with chronically poor health. In other words, it was the relatively young and
healthy who dropped private health insurance and relied instead on the public
hospitals. This left older and sicker Australians paying twice for private
hospital care and cross-subsidising younger, healthier Australians who enjoyed
easier and cheaper access to public hospitals. This is community rating turned
on its head.

By encouraging more young people back into private health insurance, the
Government's initiatives have helped restore community rating across both the
public and the private hospital systems. Having more young people restores a
more balanced risk profile in the pool of privately insured health risks. They
also pay through their taxes for places in public hospitals that can be
allocated to those less able to afford private health cover.

Ian Harper is assistant director of the Melbourne Business School. This article
is based on a paper commissioned by Medibank Private.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              145 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Hays Daily News (Kansas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           August 19, 2009 Wednesday

Brownback: Focus on cost, coverage

BYLINE: Gayle Weber, The Hays Daily News, Kan.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 658 words


Aug. 19--Health care dominated the discussion during Kansas Sen. Sam Brownback's
town hall meeting here Tuesday afternoon.

An opponent of the Senate-proposed health care reform bill, Brownback wants to
dial back changes to health care, much like Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, has
advocated.

"Let's start focusing on the cost end of it," Brownback said. "And let's start
focusing on the people that aren't covered."

Brownback's goals for health care reform include providing tax deductibles for
health insurance costs, price transparency and the ability to purchase health
insurance across state lines.

"People are very price-sensitive," Brownback said. "So if they could shop across
state lines for something that fits them, that is cheaper for them, more people
would have health insurance."

Brownback said he also would like to see more group health insurance options for
small businesses and trade associations, something Hays Area Chamber of Commerce
Director Ericka Gillespie advocates.

"We have very responsible business owners in our chamber that have 20 or fewer
employees, and they would very much like to be able to provide group-type health
insurance but can't afford it," Gillespie said.

She was told the chamber couldn't organize a group health plan because of
federal regulations, but Brownback hopes to change that.

"It would allow groups to get bigger to be able to drive the cost of their
health insurance and manage the cost of their insurance," Brownback said.

Also, Brownback said he wanted to be able to provide affordable health plans for
patients with pre-existing conditions. He said subsidizing those plans would
bring prices down.

"These are incremental moves," Brownback said. "These are dialing it back and
being more focused on the problem rather than, 'We're going to go in and do a
total takeover of the system.' "

Brownback opposes using Medicare dollars to fund a new health care program, and
Plainville resident John Couse agreed Tuesday.

"Our medical system we have now, leave it alone," Couse told Brownback in front
of about 50 people gathered at the town-hall meeting. "The 10 percent or
whatever it is that's in trouble, let's find a way to fix it. ... For 90 percent
of us, it's working."

Couse said even though he still is paying out-of-pocket for Medicare expenses
after years of contributing to it through a paycheck, the system needs to stay
the same.

Brownback said at first he thought requiring medical insurance, like the state
of Kansas requires auto insurance, would be a solution, but he quickly
discovered the number of uninsured people could rise.

"Generally, you just have to make it economically viable for folks," Brownback
said. "People react best to freedom in America and not to being told what to
do."

Brownback said the federal government shouldn't keep spending on items like a
national health care system when the deficit could reach $13 trillion this year.

"I am very concerned that within the next five years, we will have a treasury
bill on auction and it won't be bought," Brownback said. "We are operating on
the edge."

During the town hall meeting at the Hays Welcome Center, Brownback also
addressed issues like energy reform, the possibility of Guantanamo Bay detainees
coming to Kansas, agricultural issues, his bid for Kansas governor in 2010 and
transportation issues.

Brownback said, so far, meetings have been attended by eight to 10 times the
number of people who usually attend.

"Without the public's engagement on these things, most of this would have
already passed," Brownback said.

To see more of The Hays Daily News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.hdnews.net. Copyright (c) 2009, The Hays Daily News, Kan. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090819-EZ-Brownback-Focus-on-cost-coverage-0819

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EZ


                                 Copyright 2009


                              146 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            August 30, 1992, Sunday

ATLANTA BUSINESS: PERSPECTIVES High Costs of Health Health care delivery needs
reform

BYLINE: Deborah Chollethealth; care; united/states; reform; conditions;
insurance; costs

SECTION: BUSINESS; Section R; Page 3

LENGTH: 874 words


The growing cost of health care has become one of this nation's most urgent
problems.

Since 1980, health-care costs have risen at an annual average rate of more than
10 percent. At this rate, health-care costs per person double every eight years.
This year, the real cost of health care will be about twice as much as it was in
1975.

The reasons for the intrepid growth of health-care costs in this country are
many. Technology has improved, and rapid technological development has been
expensive. But probably the most important reason for the persistent rise lies
in the way we buy health care.

In general, we buy whatever we are told to buy, and we pay whatever we are
charged. Few who deliver health care have any incentive to pursue less
expensive, more efficient ways of treating illness. And surprisingly little
attention is paid to preventive care and health education.

Wasted money

Consequently, we waste a significant share of the money we spend on health care,
buying services that are unnecessary, ineffective and even dangerous. For
example, a study of surgical discharges from one major hospital indicated that
as many as one-third of surgeries were not medically indicated by the patients'
diagnoses, either at admission or at discharge.

Our system does not reward making and keeping people healthy. Instead, our
system rewards the delivery of health care. So health care is delivered, and we
pay for it.

The dollar cost of this system is just one part of the total cost. The other
cost of this system can be measured by the people who fall out of it.

This year, at least 36 million Americans (and about 1 million Georgians) will
have no health insurance at all. Even more will spend some part of the year
without health insurance.

Some people who are uninsured are between jobs that would provide them with
health insurance. But most - 54 percent in 1990 - live in families of full-time
workers who are steadily employed in jobs without health insurance benefits.

Most workers without an employer-sponsored health plan also work for low wages.
They remain without insurance for long periods because they cannot find
affordable insurance, and they don't qualify for government programs that help
pay for health care.

For these workers, the average cost of a health insurance policy can equal 20
percent or more of gross earnings. That makes paying for insurance an
unrealistic option, even if they can find coverage.

Situation worsening

The situation for the uninsured has worsened in the last decade. For example,
the probability of holding a job that provides health insurance has dropped.

Between 1989 and 1990, the nation lost a net 360,000 jobs with health insurance
benefits. At present, only 55 percent of all U.S. jobs carry health insurance
benefits. In Georgia, a state with more low-wage jobs than the national average,
even fewer jobs carry health insurance.

Also, more children are uninsured than before. In part, this is because more
children live in low-income families. Last year, one in five American children
lived in poverty or near poverty - about $ 11,500 for a family of three. Eighty
percent of these children had no private health insurance. Twenty-six percent
also failed to qualify for Medicaid, the government's health-care financing
program for the poor. As a result, more than one in four low-income children
were uninsured all year.

Employers and workers are on the front lines of our growing health- care crisis.
Employer-sponsored health insurance plans buy about 60 percent of all privately
purchased health care in the country - an estimated $ 263 billion this year.

For workers with employer-sponsored coverage, the cost of health insurance has
displaced growth in real wages and other benefits for more than a decade. Last
year, health insurance represented more than 6 percent of aggregate wages and
salaries paid to all American workers, compared with 4 percent in 1980. During
the same period, average real wages (adjusted for price inflation) fell by 5
percent.

Problems linked

For some years, health-care analysts and public policy makers have debated ways
to "fix" our health-care system - to control costs and extend benefits to the
growing number of people who are uninsured.

We finally have come to understand that the problems are linked. We cannot hope
to solve the problem of the uninsured without solving the problem of
uncontrolled health-care costs.

This realization is forcing new clarity in the national debate about health-care
reform. Similar to the growing appreciation for value in American business, the
discussion about how to control health-care costs is becoming a discussion about
how to improve dramatically the value received for the health-care money that is
spent.

This turn in the debate reflects a growing belief among health policy makers
that major changes in how we pay for health care must be tied to major changes
in how it is delivered.

Other Voices gives members of the Atlanta business community an opportunity to
speak directly to Atlanta Journal-Constitution readers. This is the first of
four columns by Dr. Deborah Chollet, director of the Center for Risk Management
and Insurance Research at Georgia State University.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH922460181

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                              147 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday

Look at W-2 to see real cost of health insurance

BYLINE: By Diane Stafford;THE KANSAS CITY STAR

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 376 words


Look closely at your new W-2 form this tax season. Notice Box 12 and a
two-letter code, DD.

If you work for an employer with 250 or more workers, information in that box
for the first time is required by the Affordable Care Act. It tells how much you
and your employer spent on your health insurance premiums.

"It's going to be an eye-opener for a lot of people," said Jerry Nebbia, a
health benefits expert in Mercer's Kansas City, Mo., office. "A lot of people
have no idea what the true cost is."

The W-2 reporting requirement for health insurance is to expand next year to
include employers with fewer than 250 on payroll.

The health insurance benefit amount isn't taxable as personal income - for now,
anyway. But it is insight into your employer's total cost of your compensation.

It also is a close reflection of what you would pay if you lost your employer
subsidy and wanted to continue the same coverage under COBRA.

In the workplace at large, the cost of employer-paid benefits equals nearly 31
percent of total employment costs, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Of that, health insurance costs account for about 7.7 percent of
employer costs in private industry and about 11.7 percent in state and local
government.

For some workers, employer-sponsored health insurance is a hefty benefit
amounting to $5,000, $10,000, even $20,000 a year.

Last year, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation's survey,
employer-sponsored health insurance cost an average of $5,615 for individuals
and $15,745 for families.

The requirement to include the full health insurance cost on W-2s was conceived
partly to make employees more aware of the actual cost of their coverage. Often,
employees with employer-subsidized coverage are paying only one-fourth of the
full premium cost.

Knowing the real price is important because workers are being asked to be
smarter consumers of health care, to make more coverage choices, or to shoulder
more of the cost.

If you see the Box 12, DD information, you may have to do some extra work to
figure out what your employer's cost was. You may need to look at your final pay
stub from 2012 and subtract what you paid for your health insurance from the new
DD amount. The difference is your employer's share.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This is a Quark CopyDesk document!

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Pantagraph


                              148 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday

Rendell's prescription only treating symptoms

BYLINE: Opinion by Matthew Brouillette Commonwealth Foundation

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 791 words


Gov. Ed Rendell wants to expand health insurance to 767,000 uninsured
Pennsylvanians by increasing taxes on employers and tobacco users, to name just
a few.

The full costs have yet to be quantified, but they are sure to be underestimated
from the get-go, like all other government-run health-care programs.

Setting aside the multi-billion dollar price tag that will accompany "Cover All
Pennsylvanians," expanding taxpayer-subsidized health-care insurance fails to
address the reasons why people don't have insurance coverage in the first place.

First, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, about 517,000 uninsured
Pennsylvanians are between ages 18-34. Understandably, this relatively healthy
demographic is neither interested nor willing to pay for an expensive insurance
program that they do not intend to utilize.

Second, the reason health insurance is so pricey is because health care itself
is expensive. But the high cost of health-care is primarily due to the health
insurance model of how we pay for health care.

Indeed, the health insurance system bears much of the responsibility for helping
create a health care system that is expensive, inefficient, bureaucratic and
error-prone.

Unfortunately for both health care consumers and taxpayers in Pennsylvania, Gov.
Rendell's solution to the problem-subsidizing and ultimately mandating health
insurance coverage is not a solution at all. Indeed, such a scheme will only
serve to exacerbate the problems in our health-care system.

So what is the solution? First, we need to rethink the role of health insurance.
Instead of being a pre-payment plan for future health-care services we may or
may not use, health insurance coverage should be restored to the same function
in our lives as home or auto insurance.

We should utilize health insurance for catastrophic purposes, not daily
maintenance.

Think about it. We don't purchase auto insurance to cover our oil changes or
adding washer fluid. We buy it to protect us from major, unintended and
unforeseen accidents. Auto owners pay for the regular upkeep and maintenance of
their cars. We don't fill up with gas and send an invoice to GEICO or
Progressive ... or the taxpayers.

If we did, we wouldn't care about how much a tank of gas costs. Herein lies the
problem. The fact that our auto insurance doesn't operate like our health
insurance is what keeps prices competitive and relatively low for basic
services.

It also keeps premiums for catastrophic coverage reasonable because they are
adjusted to our expected claims. If you're a good driver, you get price breaks.
If you're a habitual speeder, you pay more.

For the most part, unlike your health insurance, your auto insurance premium is
not affected by how bad of a driver your neighbor is. Health insurance should be
designed and utilized in the same manner. But it's not.

Our health insurance operates like a pre-payment plan for the medical equivalent
of filling up with gas or purchasing new tires, as well as when we ruin our car
in an accident. The result is that we don't pay much attention to the price of
medical services. Nor do we care.

Yet this is precisely what has caused the hyper-inflation of health care costs,
and by extension, the expensive nature of basic health insurance...and why many
people choose to go without.

If lawmakers allowed health insurance to operate in a manner similar to auto
insurance (currently it can't because of government regulations, restrictions,
and myriad other interventions in the health care marketplace), we would put
Pennsylvanians back in the driver seat.

As a direct consumer of health care, we would better control costs by better
managing our basic services because we -- not some third-party payer, either an
insurance company or taxpayers -- would pay for our simple health care expenses.
We need to think in terms of personal responsibilities when considering health
insurance matters.

Gov. Rendell's proposal does nothing to interject these necessary incentives
into our current health-care system. Under his scheme, consumers would continue
to have little concern about the actual costs of medical services.

And why should they? They won't have to pay the bills; someone else will. This
is why the governor's "Prescription for Pennsylvania" will fail: He is
prescribing treatment for the symptom rather than the cause.

Expanding insurance coverage at taxpayers' expense without first addressing the
factors that are driving up health care costs will only exacerbate our
health-care problems.

Under the governor's scheme, neither the cost of health care nor the cost of
insurance will ever become reasonably priced for the average Pennsylvanian.

Matthew J. Brouillette is president of the Commonwealth Foundation
www.CommonwealthFoundation.org.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              April 1, 2016 Friday
                                 Mumbai Edition

BITTER PILL High costs dull health cover appeal: Survey

SECTION: TIMES BUSINESS

LENGTH: 313 words


Non-affordability s turning out to be a major deterrent in purchase of health
insurance despite high awareness of the rising cost of treatment and about the
ncidence of critical illnesses. This also results in many owning health
insurance po icies dropping out at the time of renewal.

According to a survey conducted by Future Generali Insurance, customers do
understand that healthcare costs have risen. A majority of the respondents in
the poll eel that healthcare expendi ure is growing at a faster clip han
household income.

Also, over 70% of the respondents know of a family member who received treat

ment on account of a critical illness. Yet, when it comes to buying health
insurance, many continue to be deterred by the costs. Among youngsters in the
age group 1825, around 42% did not buy health insurance because of the high
premium rates.

In the age group 26-35,

64% of those polled said that the premium was expensive.In this age group, 19%
have bought health insurance and have let their policy lapse because of higher
rates.Among older people, over half of those polled said that they do not buy
health insurance because of the cost.

The inability to control medical inflation is resulting

in the cost of health insurance rising every three years.This is a double whammy
for the buyer as rates in any case go up with age. As a result, many low-income
policyholders are dropping out.

What exposes Indians further to health risks is the lack of fitness regime and a
tendency to avoid routine checks and diagnostics unless there is a medical
emergency . The survey shows that a third of youngsters (below 25 years) do not
exercise while another third go for walks and the rest either engage in brisk
walking or go for other kinds of exercises.

In the age group 26-35, 40% of the respondents said that they do not undertake
any kind of exercise and only 44% took regular walks.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Evening Sun (Hanover, Pennsylvania)

                             March 31, 2008 Monday

Health insurance: McSherrystown could join cooperative pool

BYLINE: By MELODY ASPER Evening Sun Correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 314 words


McSherrystown officials may join forces with other municipalities in a
"cooperative health insurance pool."

The idea of revamping their health insurance was first raised in February when
McSherrystown officials found the borough's cost for health insurance from
Highmark Blue Shield will cost 42 percent more than last year.

The borough currently has nine employees, including five police officers, who
have health insurance paid completely by the municipality.

The total additional cost to the borough has not yet been established because
the new bill for health insurance does not come in until April, said borough
officials, but it appeared each employee's insurance would cost at least $400
more per month.

At last week's borough meeting, Councilman James Forbes said he has arranged a
meeting with a representative with the cooperative insurance firm Benecon Group
to consider changing to lower-cost insurance. The meeting is set for Wednesday.

"We should be able to get the same coverage as we have now, or better, at a
greatly reduced rate," Forbes said.

The borough's neighbor, Conewago Township, recently decided to explore services
from the same company. Township officials will hear a presentation from Benecon
on April 21.

According to the Benecon Group Web site: "Benecon Municipal Services division
specializes in creating health insurance purchasing cooperatives for
municipalities. This unique intergovernmental risk-sharing concept has achieved
success in reducing health insurance costs for thousands of municipal workers in
central Pennsylvania."

Forbes said he and Police Chief D. Michael Vial will attend a meeting with
Benecon representatives on Wednesday. Borough Supervisor Scott Cook and
Secretary/Treasurer Luanne Boring said they will also attend the meeting.

The information gathered at that meeting will be brought back to a council
meeting for review, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2003 California Western School of Law
                         California Western Law Review

                                  Spring, 2003

                             39 Cal. W. L. Rev. 303

LENGTH: 10218 words

ESSAY: Come the Revolution: Are We Finally Ready for Universal Health Insurance?

NAME: Susan Adler Channick*

BIO: * Professor of Law, California Western School of Law; B.A., Cornell
University 1965; J.D., California Western School of Law 1980; M.H.P., Harvard
University 2001.

TEXT:
 [*303]

   I. The Status Quo

 The front page story of the November 25, 2002 New York Times highlighted, yet
again, the ongoing saga of the growing number of Americans who are without
health insurance. n1 While this topic has been written about many times, the New
York Times article had a slightly different take on the problem: no longer is
this a problem exclusive to the poor and unemployed; it is a problem now shared
by the middle class even, in some cases, the employed middle class. n2
Amazingly, the fastest growing segment of the newly uninsured is the group that
has been earning in excess of $ 75,000. n3 These approximately 800,000
individuals (of the 1.2 million recently uninsured) lost their health insurance
when they lost their jobs or were priced out of the market because of the rising
cost of health insurance. And while there is nominally federal protection for
those whose loss of employment means a loss of health insurance as well, both
such programs - the COBRA program, enacted as part of the Consolidated Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1986, and HIPAA, the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act - erect substantial procedural and economic barriers for the
recently unemployed to obtain health insurance. n4 The irony is that for many
people who recently have  [*304]  become unemployed, COBRA and HIPAA provide no
real protection against the risk of illness or disease. n5

   To some extent, of course, the explanation for the phenomenon of the
uninsured in America is "the economy, stupid." The United States has been
experiencing an at least two-and-one-half year economic recession exacerbated by
the economic effects of September 11, 2001, and, more recently, the war in Iraq.
n6 For many reasons, the economy has not enjoyed as robust a recovery as was
once predicted so that many businesses have been forced to lay off significant
portions of their workforce in order to survive or, at least, as a concession to
the bottom line. These newly unemployed find themselves not only without jobs,
but too often without health insurance as well, adding to the already growing
numbers of uninsured in the country. In addition, the rising cost of health
insurance premiums (12% in 2001 and a projected 15% in 2002) creates an
additional burden for many employers, particularly small employers, to continue
providing health insurance  [*305]  for their employees. In order to ensure
their own economic survival, many businesses are cutting back on health
insurance as an employee benefit and are passing increasing costs of health
insurance to employees in the forms of higher premium shares, less coverage for
dependents, and higher cost-sharing. So, although recent surveys by both the
Employee Benefit Research Institute and the Commonwealth Fund put health
benefits first when ranking the importance of employment fringe benefits,
workers may find Pdoxically that this benefit is no longer provided or has been
substantially reduced. n7

   The problem of the uninsured is a creature bred of a confluence of factors.
Most individuals who are not covered under public health insurance programs like
Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP, have, as stated above, had access to private
insurance through their employment. Health insurance as an employment benefit
has been the norm since the 1950s due, in large part, to the favorable income
tax treatment accorded to employers who offer this benefit to their employees.
n8 To a significant extent, access to health insurance is an artifact of income;
while only 6% of persons with an income in excess of 300% of the federal poverty
level are uninsured, 32% of persons below the federal poverty level are
uninsured. n9 While about 20% of this disparity can be attributed to
unemployment, the remaining 80% of the uninsured are employed, but remain
uninsured for other reasons. n10 Either their employers do not offer insurance
(60%), or, if the employer does offer insurance, the employee is ineligible
(11%) or does not participate in the group insurance plan (22%). n11

   Some eligible employees do not participate in a group health insurance plan
because they have other, more attractive alternatives like a spouse's insurance
plan. Others do not participate because it has simply become too expensive a
preference. For families who earn less than 200% of federal poverty level,
approximately $ 35,000 for a family of four, purchasing a health insurance
policy can cost 10% of family income. n12 Considering the myriad of expenses
that a family of four has, health insurance is a luxury and "going bare" may be
a reluctant, but preferable option. The question of whether access to health
care should ever, in a civilized, wealthy country be a foregone option is at the
core of much of today's health care policy debate. The Institute of Medicine
estimates that 18,000 people between the ages of 25 and 64 die each year because
they lack health insurance making lack of health insurance the sixth-leading
cause of death among people under age 65, a statistic that many have called a
national disgrace. n13

    [*306]  Initially, health insurance was strictly indemnity insurance that
reimbursed providers of health care on the basis of services rendered to the
employee-patient. Employers contracted with non-profit insurers like Blue
Cross/Blue Shield that were required by law to offer insurance for premiums that
were community rated as opposed to being experience rated or individually
underwritten. n14 Community rating requires that the entire community, however
defined, be rated by the insurer as a whole with all participants charged
roughly the same premium for their health insurance regardless of their personal
health status and risk. The benefit of community rating to the insured is that
it generates lower premiums, particularly for high users of health care, because
of the effect of large numbers on the probability that the insured risk will
occur in any one member of the community. Premiums paid by those who do not
incur health care costs subsidize the costs of those with a greater need for
health care.

   This cross-subsidization has a social insurance effect on health insurance in
that the cost of the insurance is, to a great extent, delinked from the cost of
care. Those members of a community rated insurance pool with a demand for health
care due to acute or chronic health conditions in excess of their insurance
premiums will have their health care costs subsidized by those whose demand for
health care is less than their insurance premiums. Cross-subsidization is at the
core of what Professor Deborah Stone calls a mutual aid system, a community
whose members share a definition of the legitimate reasons for the
redistribution of goods and services. n15 In a mutual aid system, the members
agree in what circumstances and to whom people should give up something of their
own and offer help. Although there is often disagreement over what circumstances
trigger redistribution, in most societies sickness is just such a circumstance.
n16

   In the United States, however, many policymakers, who Professor Uwe Reinhardt
identifies as belonging, in the main, to the insured elite, believe that
"rationing by price and ability to pay actually serves a greater national
purpose" by controlling the overuse of health care and the concomitant cost. n17
Citing Richard Epstein as a respected academic whose views on the distribution
of health care both reflect and bolster the views of the policymaking elite,
Professor Reinhardt quotes from an Epstein editorial published in the New York
Times: "We could do better with less regulation and less subsidy. Scarcity
matters, even in health care." n18 Professor Epstein represents the view that
health care is a commodity and that access to it should be  [*307]  controlled
by the free market even if that means that as the cost of health care rises, so
do the ranks of those without access to health care. Admittedly, subsidization
of the kind advocated by Professors Reinhardt and Stone, where resources are
allocated to those in need without the ability to pay is likely to result in a
slower growth of national material wealth. n19 The real struggle of health care
in the United States is that policymaking is caught in a clash of ideological
values: universal access versus wealth rationed access. Each ideology has its
benefits and burdens to which a society must be committed. Where the commitment
has not been made, as in the United States, exogenous factors can exert an
enormous influence on policymaking.

   One of the commonly accepted burdens of universal access is cost n20 so that
when health care costs rise, the policy pendulum tends to swing in the direction
of wealth rationed health care. The 1970s and 1980s saw an explosion of health
care costs driven by increasingly more sophisticated technologies, higher cost
treatments, increases in the numbers and costs of prescription drugs, and
overuse of the health care system due to perverse incentives in both the health
insurance and reimbursement schemes. In 1980, the United States spent $ 600
billion on health care; estimates are that we spent $ 1.5 trillion in 2002,
approximately 14.5% of GDP. n21 Health insurance premiums grew correlatively.
Initially, the brunt of these increases was felt by employers who had been
providing health benefits in the form of insurance premiums threatening the
viability of the private health insurance Pdigm. The change from a service
reimbursement model to a managed care model was intended to promote competition
in health insurance and induce providers to not inappropriately overuse health
care. Those who could provide health care most efficiently, both from the
standpoint of cost and, presumably quality would prevail in a competitive
marketplace because of employers' economic incentives.

   Once a competitive marketplace in health insurance arose, participating
health plans naturally wanted to compete profitably. In order to do this, plans
began experience rating their insurance pools, i.e., rating on the basis of risk
experience, rather than using community rating. n22 Because plans were not
permitted to individually underwrite health insurance policies, they relied on a
number of proxies for risk such as age and socioeconomic status, as well as past
actual health care usage. Experience rating provided an incentive for the health
plans to attract the healthiest populations that would utilize the least  [*308]
amount of health care leaving the sickest populations to some other plan. n23
The generally more favorable treatment accorded to self-funded employee benefit
plans by ERISA (the Employee Retirement Insurance Security Act), motivated many
large employers to take themselves out of the health insurance community,
another adverse selection phenomenon that has caused insurance premiums to
employers who are not self-funded to rise. n24

   What happens when an insurance marketplace becomes competitive is that
insurers are motivated to increasingly segment the pool of insureds in order to
match health insurance premiums to the risk of health care use. Many employers
who had borne much of the cost of health insurance in the past have either
elected not to provide their employees with health insurance or to shift the
cost of the insurance to the employee. The irony of this segmentation in a
health insurance marketplace is that those individuals who most need health
insurance, i.e., the chronically ill or those with pre-existing conditions, may
be locked out of the market because they simply cannot afford the cost. n25 This
so-called "actuarial fairness" model n26 makes complete sense for the
competitive insurer whose economic interest is best served by excluding
individuals with a high probability of high usage of health care. It also makes
sense for the insured elite, i.e., those persons who can afford the increasingly
higher cost or share of cost of health care. n27 But the logic and methods of
actuarial fairness mean denying insurance to those who most  [*309]  need
medical care; therefore the consequences to individuals who are priced out of
the group market may be grave. n28

   Left outside an insurance pool, their choices are very limited. In most
states, insurers are permitted to medically underwrite persons applying for
individual health insurance. While very few Americans are truly uninsurable
because of their health condition or history, a 2001 Henry J. Kaiser Family
Foundation study of medical underwriting practices suggests that many Americans
with only mild health problems are turned down by health insurers. n29 For those
who qualify for individual health insurance, the premiums will be higher and the
coverage more meager than comPble group insurance.

   Rochester, New York, a community cited in 1992 by then-President Clinton, as
a model of health care is a cogent example of how universal access to health
care can be impacted when a community's health insurance market becomes
competitive and insurance risk pools become segmented. In 1992, Rochester was
acknowledged to have a much more cost-effective health care system with
substantially lower costs, better insurance coverage, and much better access to
care than in the rest of the country. n30 Rochester's remarkable success was the
result, in large part, of the cooperation among the most important players in
the health insurance and delivery scheme: Rochester's big employers, its
dominant insurer (Blue Cross, Blue Shield of Rochester) and its provider
community. Instead of segmenting the insurance market on an actuarial fairness
model, Rochester developed a so-called uniform or all-payer system that
prevented the cream-skimming and adverse selection in insurance coverage. n31

   Then Eastman Kodak, the largest employer in Rochester, elected the ERISA
option of self-funding its group health insurance benefit and withdrew from the
community insurance pool taking with it tens of thousands of healthy young
employees. As City Newspaper's columnist Joan Collins Lambert put it, "Kodak had
broken the all-for-one, one-for-all approach to health care in favor of an
each-man-for-himself philosophy." n32 While Rochester's record on health care is
still exemplary relative to the rest of the country, some feel that there is
reason to fear that Rochester's much-acknowledged managed cooperation health
care model is at risk. Humphrey  [*310]  Taylor, chairman of The Harris Poll,
HarrisInteractive, has commented, "If they behave as they are beginning to, more
like the rest of the nation, health care in Rochester may look much more like
health care elsewhere - i.e. more uninsured, higher costs, and greater
dissatisfaction." n33

   More recently, the growing backlash against managed care has contributed to
the rise in the cost of health insurance. Health plans afraid of losing business
because of public perceptions that they are engaged in so-called health care
rationing, have decided to loosen the reins of utilization review and allow
patients independent access to specialists and specialist care. This concession
to "customer satisfaction" is likely to be expensive to the health plan and will
not come without a correlative cost in the form of an increased premium. In
addition, the issue of health care quality is undergoing a quiet but persistent
revolution. n34 There is empirical evidence to suggest that poor quality, most
particularly institutional quality health care leads to "at least 44,000 and
perhaps as many as 98,000 deaths per year."  n35The cost of "cleaning up the
system" is estimated to be "between $ 17 and $ 29 billion" annually, a cost that
will translate into higher costs of care that will eventually reach the consumer
in the form of higher health insurance premiums. n36One of the arguments in
favor of retaining the existing competitive, multi-payer system is that,
although expensive, n37 the health care system in the United States is the best
in the world. In 2002, the estimated cost per capita for health care was $ 5,427
with the government's share being $ 3,245. n38 In 1998, the cost of health care
in the United States was more than twice as much measured both per capita and as
a percentage of GDP than the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development ("OECD") median and far more than its closest competitor,
Switzerland. n39 So it is clear that far more money is spent on health care in
the United States than in any other industrialized country. A cogent question
is: what is the quid pro quo for this large expenditure of GDP? Much depends on
agreement as to what constitutes a good health care system. A system that is
rated only by those with affordable access to it will value measurements such as
quality of care, the good health of its population, ease of use, and
technological capability.  [*311]  For those to whom access is effectively
denied because of lack of affordability, these measurements mean little.

   Certainly one could argue that the measurements of a good health care system
must look also to overall good health, i.e., the health of all citizens, a fair
distribution of good health, a fair distribution of responsiveness across
population groups, and a fair distribution of financing health care. n40 A
health care system that excludes a significant percentage of the population
arguably should not be considered good and certainly cannot be considered fair.
And yet the United States' health care system, the most expensive in the world,
excludes approximately 43 million people by making access to health care a
function of price and income. n41

   The result of a system that excludes 43 million people completely and at
least another 20 million sometime during the year is just as one might expect.
While the insured are generally entitled to excellent care, the uninsured lack
access to a full range of preventive, chronic and acute care services that are
an important predicate of better health and longer life. n42 Access to good and
consistent health care has not only individual effects, but family and community
effects as well. The effect of a serious illness for one member of an insured
family is severe, to be sure, but is not as likely to have serious economic
consequences to the whole family as the same event in an uninsured family.
Uninsured families, who pay more than 40% of their medical costs by themselves,
tend to use far fewer health services, often waiting until a crisis occurs.
While such behavior may save money in the short run, the long-term costs of
serious illness can be far greater. n43 A recent study estimates that an
uninsured individual's earnings are 15-20% lower than a comPble insured
individual because of decreased productivity due to illness. n44 Lowered
productivity inures, of course, to the detriment of employers whose productivity
is also adversely affected. The ill effects of lack of access to health care
ripples from individuals to families to societies.

   A related and equally serious issue is the cost of uncompensated care. When
an uninsured person or family cannot pay for expensive emergency health care,
who picks up the cost of care? The answer is, of course, that we  [*312]  all
do. As the Institute of Medicine report on the effects of uninsurance states,
"The unreimbursed costs of caring for uninsured Americans are ultimately paid
for by higher taxes and higher prices for services and insurance. Local
communities tend to bear the main economic burden of subsidizing service
delivery, while the costs of public insurance are more broadly spread across
state and federal budgets." n45 However, as the federal and state budget
surpluses of the last decade of the 20th century give way to the budget deficits
of the first decade of the 21st century, this subsidy cushion is quickly
disappearing. In 2001, the cost to the system of caring for the uninsured is
estimated to have been $ 40.6 billion, $ 24 billion of which was borne by
providers. n46 When providers are uncompensated, they often reduce access to
services such as "clinic-based primary care, specialty health services, and
hospital-based care, particularly emergency medical services and trauma care,
[which] may also result in lessened availability of other primary and preventive
care and the closure or privatization of community hospitals." n47

   Covering the costs of uncompensated care is but one example of how a
fragmented health insurance system shifts the cost of care. As Karen Davis,
economist and president of The Commonwealth Fund, explains, in a multi-payer
system, there are many paths to health care coverage: employer-based coverage
which accounts for 160 million people, public health insurance programs like
Medicare (39 million people) and Medicaid (40 million people), and individual
health insurance plans that provide coverage for about 15 million people. n48 As
health care costs rise, it is in the interest of any payer to shift the cost of
care to someone else; in a multi-payer system, "passing the buck" is both
possible and desirable. Passing the buck is exactly what employers who shift the
cost of health insurance to their employees are doing. Employees who either
choose not to or cannot pick up the additional cost share become part of the
growing numbers of uninsured Americans.

   A fragmented health insurance system where passing the buck is the name of
the game increases the probability of adverse consequences to individuals,
families and society in the form of higher administrative costs, more
uncompensated care, and greater numbers of uninsured individuals. The state of
the health insurance system and indeed, the health care system in America today
is, in large part, the result of the choice, whether conscious or negligent, to
ration health care by price and wealth. As Professor Deborah Stone notes, a
long-standing public policy that has encouraged competition and a market economy
has "so deeply embedded" the principle of actuarial fairness in the health
insurance structure that it will be harder than one might  [*313]  suppose to
eradicate it. n49 Since the ideology of subsidization runs exactly counter to
the principle of actuarial fairness, it is difficult to imagine that universal
coverage could be realized. But a confluence of forces, many of which have been
discussed, may create a "perfect storm" strong enough to overcome the inertial
resistance of the status quo. n50

   II. Come the Revolution?

 In a recent commentary in the Journal of the American Medical Association,
Professor Uwe Reinhardt baldly illustrates the ideological debate of American
health care by choosing the hardest case. "As a matter of national policy, and
to the extent that a nation's health system can make it possible, should the
child of a poor American family have the same chance of avoiding preventable
illness or of being cured from a given illness as does the child of a rich
American family?" n51 Framing the issue of affordable access to health care this
starkly should force us to directly confront the moral, equitable and social
components of health care. And while it would be socially irresponsible and
politically impossible to ignore the financial impact of saying yes to Professor
Reinhardt's question, is it not equally socially irresponsible and even
politically immoral to say no?

   Since the publication of Professor Reinhardt's commentary, the numbers of
Americans excluded from affordable health care has grown to include, as John
Broder's New York Times article illustrates, the working middle class. While
that change makes Professor Reinhardt's access to affordable health care dilemma
somewhat less morally shocking, as a matter of class warfare it makes it
eminently more politically exigent. When members of a more politically powerful
group suffer a diminution in access to health care, they are more likely to
experience the loss as one of a perceived preexisting right. n52 The irony is
that there has never been a political consensus in the United States about the
status of health care as a right of citizenship or a market commodity. n53
Nonetheless, it is not unlikely that the middle class will experience the loss
of it as the loss of a right. The more relevant question to health care policy
is whether the fear that their health and the  [*314]  health of their families
will be compromised and their indignation at the loss of a perceived right will
translate into political power sufficient to change the status quo.

   There is, to the extent possible, at a time when the United States is waging
an expensive war on terror and governments at all levels are experiencing severe
budget deficits, a surprisingly broad coalition weighing in on the future of
health care. This coalition ranges from the Bush Administration's support of a
market-based Medicare prescription drug benefit that would inure only to
Medicare beneficiaries who participate in Medicare+Choice, n54 to a multitude of
initiatives supporting some form of a universal health insurance; n55 two
proposals that are on opposite ends of the health care ideological spectrum.
Although the universal health insurance proposals differ, some of them radically
with regard to how to get the job done, the unifying principle of all these
movements is inclusiveness. "Affordable health care for all" is the rallying
cry. n56 The mandate with seemingly the greatest momentum and the broadest
appeal is a change from a multi-payer to a single-payer system, based on what
appears to be compelling evidence that the administrative and other non-health
care costs of a multiple payer system are crippling, unproductive and
unnecessary. n57

   An ironic consequence of the momentum in favor of a single-payer system is
that the multiple player constituency, most particularly private insurers, has
joined the ranks of those in favor of extending coverage to as many as possible.
A recent article in the Business Section of the New York Times entitled "Some
Tentative First Steps Toward Universal Health Care" describes not single-payer
legislation, but rather steps that the private health insurers, fearful that
mounting numbers of uninsured will inevitably lead to  [*315]  single-payer
legislation that will threaten the continued viability of the private insurance
market, are taking to maintain the status quo. n58 Some health insurers are
developing products with slimmer coverage and lower premiums; others are
pressing state legislators to raise the cigarette tax to subsidize basic
coverage. "Dr. William W. McGuire, chief executive of the UnitedHealthGroup, the
largest private insurer, has written to every member of Congress calling for
"essential health care for all Americans.'" n59

   While the private sector certainly is seeking a public relations bonanza by
endorsing a more comprehensive approach to access to health care, its business
interests are advanced by its advocacy of universal coverage. Rising health
insurance premiums and a shift from employers to employees means that more
people, often the young and healthy, who gamble on their lower probability of
illness, are dropping health insurance as an employee benefit leaving the older,
sicker (and wealthier) in the risk pool. This adverse selection means that the
risk pool is not as broad as it once was and increases the potential of higher
costs to health plans creating an ever-increasing need to raise the cost of
premiums. All of the plans advocated by the private health insurance sector seek
to bring the younger and healthier back into the risk pool thereby reversing the
adverse selection phenomenon. "If we don't do something in a darn hurry about
the uninsured, the whole health care system in this country is going to collapse
and the government will step in," said Chuck Butler, a vice president of Blue
Cross Blue Shield of Montana. n60

   The last time momentum built for universal coverage was during the late 1980s
and 1990s when similar forces existed. The numbers of uninsured steadily
increased during the 1980s and the 1990-1991 economic recession caused consumers
to worry about the risks of losing coverage. n61 Then, as today, rising health
care costs caused concern among employers, particularly small employers, about
the cost of employee benefits. Former university president and Democrat, Harris
Wofford's wholly unexpected 1991 triumph over Republican Richard Thornburg, a
two-time former governor of Pennsylvania, to fill the Pennsylvania Senate seat
vacated by the untimely death of Republican John Heinz, epitomized the changing
political climate. n62 Wofford was so impressed with the importance of ensuring
all Americans access to affordable health care that the tag line for his
campaign was: "if criminals have the right to a lawyer, I think working
Americans should have the  [*316]  right to a doctor." n63 Bill Clinton and the
Democrats rode to victory in 1992 partly on the wave of comprehensive health
reform.

   When the Clinton pay-or-play Health Security Act n64 was defeated in 1994,
the states undertook the task of expanding health insurance coverage to more
at-risk populations. Some states took advantage of options provided by the
federal government to expand Medicaid coverage to more adults. The enactment of
SCHIP (State Children's Health Insurance Program) in 1997, in which all states
are currently participating, provided extended coverage for previously uninsured
children who, in 1995 made up a full 25% of uninsured Americans. n65 But today,
staggering state budget deficits already threaten to unravel the public health
insurance safety net created by the states over the past seven or so years.
Although the rise in the numbers of uninsured Americans in 2002 was due to loss
of private insurance, in the coming year, public coverage is likely to erode as
states seek to cut budget deficits by restricting public insurance programs such
as Medicaid and SCHIP. n66

   So the traditional impetuses for universal or at least more comprehensive
health insurance coverage exist again today. Of course, the other side of the
universal coverage coin is the public cost of providing this coverage that
continues to increase as more and more Americans lose their private health
insurance. If universal coverage will require, as it surely will, an increase in
public subsidies as well as increases in private cross-subsidization, it will be
a hard sell to a voting polity, the majority of whom are currently insured, and
therefore not likely to immediately benefit from universal coverage. And given
the predilection of the current administration to spend money abroad rather than
fund social programs at home, n67 it would be a real turn-about for the
administration to be amenable to a publicly subsidized universal health
insurance program. There are, however, a number of vocal and powerful members of
the current health care system who argue that the so-called private  [*317]
health care system in the United States is really a mixed system in which the
government already plays a prominent role. n68

   Drs. Steffie Woolhandler and David Himmelstein, both associate professors of
medicine at Harvard Medical School and founders of Physicians for a National
Health Program, n69 a nationwide group with more than 9,000 members, have
written extensively to demonstrate that the cost to the government of funding
national health insurance would not be nearly as great as most Americans
believe. While the direct spending by the government is above the radar screen,
n70 approximately 15% more of current health care spending is below the radar
screen in the form of health care related tax subsidies and public employees'
health benefits. n71 The result, they estimate, is that a full 60% of current
spending on health in the United States is already subsidized by taxes. n72 For
example, while employer payments to health insurers and providers on behalf of
their employees are popularly characterized as "private," these payments are
subsidized by taxes and are therefore more properly attributable to both private
and public financing. Employers deduct, as a business expense, payments made as
part of an employee benefits plan and, correlatively, employees are not required
to recognize such payments as income. When the government grants these tax
preferences to insured individuals, it either redistributes economic privilege
or income from other taxpayers. The argument is that these redistributions are a
form of "tax financing" on behalf of individuals who are so-called privately
insured. n73

    [*318]  Drs. Woolhandler and Himmelstein argue that the enormous cost of
administering a multi-payer system is added to the already publicly subsidized
health spending, the costs of universal health insurance may be less than
taxpayers, fearful of huge tax increases, might expect. Even skeptics of
national health insurance agree that "U.S. health care costs need not rise under
national health insurance because administrative savings would roughly offset
the increased costs of care for today's uninsured and underinsured persons." n74
Drs. Woolhandler and Himmelstein estimate that the cost to the government of
getting us from here to there would be approximately $ 130,000 billion per year,
the amount of the current employee tax exclusion. n75 So if Drs. Woolhandler and
Himmelstein are right, why aren't we already there?

   Professor Jonathan Oberlander, a professor of social medicine at University
of North Carolina Medical School, says that even though the 60% public share of
health spending in the United States is within sight of the 70% public share of
health spending subsidized by the Canadian government to maintain its
single-payer health system, the likelihood of closing that 10% gap and realizing
a single-payer universal health insurance system in the United States is small.
He believes that the divide between the economic significance of raising taxes
and the political significance of raising taxes will halt the progress of
national health insurance in its tracks. "Raising income or payroll taxes to
fund national health insurance imposes a visible cost on Americans, a cost that
so far taxpayers have shown little willingness to fund." n76 This statement
illustrates, as clearly as any can, the philosophical "struggle for the soul of
health insurance" in America. n77 Can insured Americans agree that access to
health care is a basic right to which we are all entitled regardless of income,
employment, or health status and, more importantly, agree to directly subsidize
the cost of that right through increased taxes? Professor Oberlander says no, at
least not yet. So if national health insurance is not yet ready for prime time,
are there other ways to increase the inclusiveness of access to health care?

   A recent Robert Wood Johnson Foundation initiative, "Covering America," asked
prominent experts in health policy to analyze the various options for expanding
health insurance coverage. Urban Institute researchers more fully developed two
of the ten proposals submitted to the "Covering America" initiative. One of the
proposals, "Expanding Health Insurance Coverage," builds on the existing
federal/state Medicaid and SCHIP structures but provides more generous federal
funding. The second developed proposal,  [*319]  crafted by Alan Weil, n78 an
Urban Institute researcher, is entitled "The Medical Security System: A Proposal
to Ensure Health Insurance Coverage for All Americans" (the "MSS"). n79

   The MSS Plan, like Drs. Woolhandler and Himmelstein's, proposes converting
the current employee tax exclusion to a new payroll tax that would be used to
fund basic health insurance for all employed people and their dependents. Like
the current Social Security and Medicare payroll tax, the payroll tax used to
fund the MSS would be shared by employers and employees. n80 Employers could opt
out of the payroll tax by continuing to provide and pay a significant portion of
health insurance premiums for their employees. n81 Other funding sources, such
as the funds currently allocated to Medicaid's low-income and adult component
and the SCHIP program, would be available to fund health insurance for the
unemployed.

   Although the financing and universal access components of the two proposals
are similar, the proposals are different operationally. Drs. Woolhandler and
Himmelstein as well as Physicians for a National Health Program (PNHP) endorse
an American national health insurance in the Canadian single-payer style. This
universal health insurance program would be an expansion of the current Medicare
program and, like Medicare, would guarantee all Americans a basic health
benefits package. As it does with the current Medicare program, Congress would
appropriate amounts for the program's annual budget to include payments for
providers, both physicians and institutions, capitation payments to health plans
and administrative expenses. While the financing, pricing, reimbursement and
administrative aspects of this national health insurance system would be public,
the provision of care would remain in the hands of the private sector.

   Under the Medical Security System, all Americans under the age of 65 who do
not have access to health insurance through their employers would be eligible
for a no-cost basic benefits health plan and could purchase higher-cost coverage
if they chose. Unlike the American national health insurance plan, the MSS does
not dismantle the current Medicare system but rather operates alongside it. The
MSS would operate using managed competition principles n82 through health
insurance exchanges that serve to organize  [*320]  the health insurance market.
n83 Exchanges themselves would not bear insurance risk, but would contract with
private licensed health plans that would be required to offer health insurance
at community rates. Exchanges would not be permitted to refuse to enroll any
eligible person, defined as any resident within the geographic area that the
exchange serves. n84 Enrollees would be eligible at no additional cost for a
basic benefits package but, could choose an enhanced benefits package for an
additional premium. Under the MSS, the government would need to decide on a
process for making payments to licensed exchanges. Among other matters, this
process would require the government to determine how payments should be
risk-adjusted to account for health status, a process that has been articulated
as one of the primary reasons for the failure of managed care in the current
Medicare program. n85

   While the MSS values the universality of health insurance in that no person
can be denied access to health care as a function of cost or income, it also
creates an option for individual preferences that may very well be a function of
cost and income. It also values the role of competition. Health exchanges are
paid a risk capitated fee per enrollee by the federal government, a fee
determined by the cost of providing a specific benefits package. The health
exchanges then enter into risk contracts with multiple health insurers who
contract with providers. Under the MSS, the government is the guarantor of
access to health care for all Americans under the age of 65 regardless of
health, wealth or employment status. However, the MSS is not a single-payer
system. Although the federal government is the sole payer to the health
exchanges, the competitive health exchange and health plan components make the
MSS a multiple-payer system with regard to providers. Presumably, competition
will determine which health exchanges will survive in the health exchange
marketplace as well as operate to drive down the costs of procuring health
insurance and care.

    [*321]  While the Medical Security Act is still in the proposal stage, the
national health insurance plan is not. n86 On February 2, 2003, Representative
John Conyer introduced a bill to the House of Representatives n87 entitled
"United States National Health Insurance Act" ("USNHI") (or the "Expanded and
Improved Medicare for All Act"). The USNHI would provide health care coverage in
the form of a single universal benefits package. n88 Private health plans are
prohibited from selling coverage that duplicates the benefits of the USNHI
program, but may provide coverage for non-duplicative health care such as
cosmetic surgery and other medically unnecessary care. n89 Under the USNHI,
there is no competition for enrollees; all basic health care is paid for by a
single payer, the federal government, through a service reimbursement
administered pricing system. n90

   Proponents of the legislation estimate that the cost of national health
insurance will be $ 1.8 trillion annually, a reduction of $ 109 billion over
current costs. The USNHI would be funded by an additional payroll tax of 3.3% on
employers only. n91 The Act envisions also that low and middle income families
pay a smaller share of their incomes for health care than the wealthiest 5% of
Americans upon whom a health income tax will be imposed. The out-of-pocket costs
of health care for lower and middle-income families are calculated to be
substantially reduced under the USNHI; these costs would be shifted to the
wealthiest individuals and families and to employers. While employers today can
offer health insurance as a tax-subsidized employee benefit as a matter of
business and personal preference, under the USNHI, the employer payroll tax to
subsidize universal health care  [*322]  would be mandatory. Not only would
employers not have a choice with regard to providing health insurance, but also
the direct cost shifting from employers to employees that is a reality of health
insurance today could not occur.

   As always, there is no free lunch and the increased cost of providing
universal coverage would necessitate some changes. These could take the form of
cross-subsidization from the insured elite to the uninsured, a direct or
indirect tax on employers, decreased reimbursement to providers, or from public
subsidies paid by increasing payroll and/or income taxes, by an allocation of a
greater percentage of GDP to health care spending, or from all of these sources.
Whatever the sources of revenue to fund such a program, it is certain that a
decision to provide universal health coverage to all Americans is a commitment.
If history is a teacher, Americans are unlikely to make this commitment at this
time; we are a polity generally too acculturated in individual rights and not
enough in community responsibility. And, at a time when our lives are filled
with terrorism, war, huge budget deficits, rising unemployment, a sinking stock
market, skyrocketing health care costs, and a very strong free market
orientation, what is the probability that we can make universal health coverage
a reality? I, like Professor Oberlander, think it very unlikely. n92


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsurancePreexisting ConditionsHealthcare
LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See John M. Broder, Problem of Lost Health Benefits is Reaching into the
Middle Class, N.Y. Times, Nov. 25, 2002, at A1.





n2.  A recent article written by economist Karen Davis, President of the
Commonwealth Fund, entitled "Work In America: New Challenges for Health Care,"
the author states that approximately 158 million Americans - nearly two out of
three people under the age of 65 - have health insurance provided by their
employers. Karen Davis, Commonwealth Fund, Work in America: New Challenges for
Health Care 5 (Apr. 2002) (publication no. 521) at
http://www.cmwf.org/annreprt/2001/presmess.pdf.





n3.  Broder, supra note 1.





n4.  In order to qualify for both COBRA and HIPAA coverage, the employee must
have been employed by an employer that provided its employees with health
insurance. The cost of COBRA protection, which is effective for only 18 months,
is 102% of the cost of coverage for current employees which cost is fully borne
by the insured. The guarantee of HIPAA is access to individual insurance, but
with no limit on the premiums that insurers can offer for such coverage. In some
cases, the cost of HIPAA health insurance is more than 200% of comPble non-HIPAA
policies.





n5.  See Jack A. Meyer & Larry S. Stepnick, Commonwealth Fund, Portability of
Coverage: HIPAA and COBRA (Nov. 2002) (publication no. 569) at
http://www.cmwf.org/programs/insurance/meyer hipaacobra ib 569.pdf.





n6.  On March 25, 2003, President Bush submitted a request to Congress for a
fiscal year 2003 supplemental appropriation of $ 74.7 billion for funding of the
invasion of Iraq and to reward key allies. The President set an April 11
deadline for completion. Congress approved the President's request, increasing
the 2003 budget deficit to a projected $ 400 billion. Earlier, Congress approved
a 10-year $ 760 million cut in income and corporate dividends taxes. This week
the Senate reversed itself by a narrow margin in favor of paring the tax cut by
$ 350 billion.





n7.  Work in America: New Challenges for Health Care, supra note 2, at 6.





n8.  In many ways, the employment based health insurance system is an artifact
of the tax code. Since post-WWII, employers have received a tax deduction for
their payments toward employee health insurance and such payments are excluded
from the employees' taxable income. As long as health insurance costs remained
relatively low, these tax preferences were perceived as beneficial to employers
who were able to give their employees a tax-subsidized increase in compensation.
As health insurance costs have risen, the value of this employee benefit to
employees has gone up while its value to employers has fallen. See Jonathan
Gruber & Larry Levitt, Tax Subsidies for Health Insurance: Costs and Benefits,
Health Aff., Jan.-Feb. 2000, at 72 available at
http://www.healthaffairs.org/readeragent.php?ID=/usr/local/apache/sites/healthaf
fairs.org/htdocs/Library/v19n1/s5.pdf.





n9.  In Critical Condition: America's Ailing Health Care System: Hearing Before
the Senate Special Comm. On Aging, 108th Cong. (Mar. 10, 2003) (testimony of
Karen Davis, President of The Commonwealth Fund) reprinted in Karen Davis,
Commonwealth Fund, Time for Change: The Hidden Cost of a Fragmented Health
Insurance System, Chart No. 3 (Document No. 622) at
http://www.cmwf.org/programs/insurance/davissenatecommitteetestimony 622.pdf
(Mar. 10, 2003)[hereinafter Time for Change: The Hidden Cost of a Fragmented
Health Insurance System].





n10.  Institute of Medicine, Summary of A Shared Destiny: Effects of Uninsurance
on Individuals, Families and Communities (Mar. 2003) at
http://www.iom.edu/iom/iomhome.nsf/Wfiles/Uninsured4final/$
file/Uninsured4final.pdf [hereinafter A Shared Destiny].





n11.  S. Collins, et al., The Commonwealth Fund, On the Edge: The Health
Insurance Coverage of Low-Wage Workers Findings from the 2001 Commonwealth Fund
Health Insurance Survey (forthcoming, on file with author).





n12.  A Shared Destiny, supra note 10.





n13.  Time For Change: The Hidden Cost of a Fragmented Health Insurance System,
supra note 9.





n14.  See infra notes 32-34 and accompanying text.





n15.  Deborah Stone, The Struggle for the Soul of Health Insurance, 18 J. Health
Pol., Pol'y & L. 287, 289 (1993).





n16.  Id.





n17.  Uwe E. Reinhardt, Commentary, Wanted: A Clearly Articulated Social Ethic
for American Health Care, 278 J. Am. Med. Ass'n 1446 (1997).





n18.  Id. (quoting Richard A. Epstein, Letter to the Editor, Healthcare Law
Shows Big Government Lives, N.Y. Times, Aug. 10, 1997, 4 (Magazine), at 14).





n19.  Id. at 1447.





n20.  See infra notes 38-42 and accompanying text.





n21.  Stephen Heffler et al., Health Spending Projections for 2002-2012, Health
Aff., Mar.-Apr. 2003, http://www.healthaffairs.org/WebExclusives/2202Heffler.pdf
(Feb. 7, 2003).





n22.  Community rated health insurance is the centerpiece of almost every
proposal for increasing access to health care. This is true whether the reform
envisions a single-payer or a competitive marketplace. The community rate is
defined as the rate charged by a competitive insurer for a person of average
risk for a standardized benefits package. John F. Holahan, Len M. Nichols &
Linda J. Blumberg, Expanding Health Insurance Coverage, in Urban Institute,
Covering Am. - Real Remedies for the Uninsured, 103 (June 1, 2002).





n23.  For example, a health plan might offer a set of benefits that more heavily
reimburse preventive care over prolonged hospital stays on the theory that
healthier individuals, rather than sicker individuals, are more likely to enroll
in such a plan. This so-called adverse selection means that the sicker
populations are more likely to select a plan that emphasizes hospital stays or
expensive and more frequent medical treatments. The latter plan is more likely
to incur greater costs than the former and be less profitable; in order to be
profitable, it must raise its premium costs pricing certain segments of the
unhealthy population out of the insurance market.





n24.  ERISA, the federal law regulating employee benefits including health
benefits, permits employers to avoid state insurance premium taxes, state
benefits mandates and other special taxes used to subsidize uncompensated care
and high-risk pools. Self-insured plans need not hold reserves or meet solvency
standards and, under ERISA, workers have less recourse to redress grievances
about plan administration. Robert A. Berenson, Beyond Competition, Health Aff.,
Mar. -Apr. 1997, at 171-72 at
http://www.healthaffairs.org/readeragent.php?ID=/usr/local/apache/sites/healthaf
fairs.org/htdocs/Library/v16n2/s23.pdf.





n25.  While it certainly is true that choosing to purchase health insurance with
available income is an exercise of individual preferences, it is also true that
preference is constrained by income. Those with limited incomes may not have a
real choice with regard to health insurance, however much they might choose to
have such insurance. The 12/3/02 TOTN was on the rising numbers of uninsured in
America and quoted the statistic that the average cost of health insurance to a
family of four in 2002 is $ 8,000.





n26.  See generally Stone, supra note 15, at 287.





n27.  In an actuarial fairness model, the cost of health insurance is directly
linked to health care usage. For those participants whose risk of usage is high,
the cost of procuring health insurance will be high. But for those whose health
care usage risk is low, the cost of health insurance will be correlatively low.





n28.  Id. at 308.





n29.  Karen Pollitz & Richard Sorian, Ensuring Health Security: Is the
Individual Market Ready for Prime Time, Health Aff., Oct. 23, 2002
http://www.healthaffairs.org/WebExclusives/2106Pollitz.pdf.





n30.  HarrisInteractive, Rochester, NY Health Care System Still a Model for
Success (Mar. 27, 2001) available at
http://www.Harrisinteractive.com/news/allnewsbydate. asp?NewsID=256.





n31.  Id.





n32.  First Unitarian Church of Rochester, Is Health Care a Commodity? Is
everythiing for Sale? http://www.rochesterunitarian.org/1999-2000/20000326.html
(quoting Joan Collins Lambert, Can This Health Care System be Saved? City
Newspaper, July 7-13, 1999, at 8).





n33.  Rochester, NY Health Care System Still a Model for Success, supra note 30,
at 3.





n34.  See Institute Of Medicine Report Brief, To Err is Human: Building A Safer
Health System (Nov. 1999) at http://books.nap.edu/html/to err is
human/reportbrief.pdf.





n35.  Id. at 1.





n36.  Id.





n37.  In 2002, $ 110 billion was devoted to health insurance administrative
costs alone. Time for Change: The Hidden Cost of a Fragmented Health Insurance
System, supra note 9, at 17.





n38.  See Bureau of Labor Education of The University of Maine, The U.S. Health
Care System: Best in the World, or Just the Most Expensive?, at 2 n.4 available
at http://dll.umaine.edu/ble/U.S.%20HCweb.pdf (Summer 2001) (citing OECD, OECD
Health Data 2000: A ComPtive Analysis of Twenty-nine Countries (Paris: IECD,
2000)).





n39.  Id. at 3, figure 1.





n40.  Id. at 1. See also World Health Organization, The World Health Report 2000
- Health Systems: Improving Performance (Geneva: WHO, 2000).





n41.  It has been argued that emergency care is available even to those outside
the system through federal legislation such as the EMTALA (Emergency Medical
Treatment and Labor Act) which requires that all hospitals with emergency
departments provide a modicum of care (diagnosis and stabilizing) to any person
regardless of health insurance status. Providers who used to subsidize care for
the uninsured through higher payments from the insured or otherwise paying
patient population have lost the wherewithal to do so because of harder
bargaining by health plans which leave providers little overage with which to
subsidize.





n42.  Institute Of Medicine Report Brief, Care without Coverage: Too Little, Too
Late (May 2002) at http://books.nap.edu/html/care without/reportbrief.pdf.





n43.  A Shared Destiny, supra note 10.





n44.  Jack Hadley, Kaiser Commission on Medicaid & the Uninsured, Sicker and
Poorer: The Consequences of Being Uninsured (2002) available at
http://www.kff.org/ content2002/20020510/4004.pdf (May 2002), at 1, 81-82,
84-85.





n45.  A Shared Destiny, supra note 10.





n46.  Jack Hadley & John Holahan, How Much Medical Care Do the Uninsured Use,
and Who Pays for it? Health Aff., at
http://www.healthaffairs.org/WebExclusives/2202Hadley. pdf (Feb. 12, 2003).





n47.  A Shared Destiny, supra note 10





n48.  Time for Change: The Hidden Cost of a Fragmented Health Insurance System,
supra note 9.





n49.  Stone, supra note 15, at 313.





n50.  Joel E. Miller, Nat'l Coalition on Health Care, A Perfect Storm: The
Confluence of Forces Affecting Health Care Coverage, (Nov. 2001) at
http://www.nchc.org/APerfectStorm.pdf.





n51.  Reinhardt, supra note 17, at 446.





n52.  The tendency of Americans to frame social issues in terms of individual
rights has engendered a growing body of literature. Professor Mary Ann Glendon
persuasively argues that rights talk elevates the interests of individuals over
the interests of communities and, in so doing, impoverishes political discourse
about societal values. "A kind of blind spot seems to float across our political
vision where the communal and social, as distinct from individual or strictly
economic, dimensions of a problem are concerned." Mary Ann Glendon, Rights Talk:
The Impoverishment of Political Discourse 112 (The Free Press, 1991) (1993).





n53.  Stone, supra note 15, at 288.





n54.  The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 added a Part C, Medicare+Choice, to
Medicare in order to expand the choices of Medicare beneficiaries beyond
traditional Medicare indemnity insurance to various managed care options. The
impetus for this legislation was the increasing cost burden to the federal
government of insuring the health care of Americans age 65 and older.
Medicare+Choice was intended to shift the burden of senior health insurance from
the public to the private sector.





n55.  The groups supporting some form of universal health insurance range from
physician groups to various states single payer movements to private health
insurers like Blue Cross.





n56.  A measure of the broad base of this movement is the recent Cover the
Uninsured Week sponsored by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation generated a
significant amount of optimism from all parts of the ideological spectrum.
Columnist David Broder of the Washington Post writes that while the struggle to
"reach agreement" on any significant health care legislation "so far has yielded
more frustration than results," Cover the Uninsured Week "did not try to define
a solution...their message was that this is a problem that cannot be ignored."
David S. Broder, Editorial, Health Care Hopes, Wash. Post.Com, Mar. 16, 2003, at
B7 at www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn?pagename=article&node=&a
mp;contentId=A27802-2003 Mar14& notfound=true.





n57. " The Congressional Budget Office projects that a national single-payer
system would reduce overall health costs by $ 225 billion by 2004 despite the
expansion of comprehensive care to all Americans." Physicians For a National
Health Program (PNHP), Single-Payer Fact Sheet at
http://www.pnhp.org/hcinfo/?go=single payer (last visited May 4, 2003).





n58.  Milt Freudenheim, N.Y. Times, Some Tentative First Steps Toward Universal
Health Care, Dec. 7, 2002, at C1.





n59.  Id.





n60.  Id.





n61.  Linda T. Bilheimer & David C. Colby, Expanding Coverage: Reflections on
Recent Efforts, Health Aff., Jan.-Feb. 2001, at 83 available at 2001 WL
10696847.





n62.  Dale Russakof, How Wofford Rode Healthcare to Washington, Wash. Post.
(Weekly Ed.), Nov. 25-Dec.1, 1991, at 14, 15.





n63.  Haynes Johnson & David Broder, The System: The American Way of Politics at
the Breaking Point 601 (Little, Brown, & Co. 1996).





n64.  The Health Security Act, built on a preexisting employment-based
structure, pay-or-play, required employers to provide health insurance to their
employees or pay into a fund that would provide health insurance to employees. A
similar employer pay-or-play approach forms the basis for SB2, a comprehensive
health insurance bill sponsored by CA state senator John Burton (D).





n65.  Employee Benefit Research Institute, Issue Brief No. 179 Sources of Health
and the Characteristics of the Uninsured: Analysis of the March 1996 Current
Population Survey (Nov. 1996).





n66.  Time for Change: The Hidden Cost of a Fragmented Health Insurance System,
supra note 9, at 5.





n67.  As noted above, President Bush asked Congress to supplement the 2003
federal budget by, at least initially, $ 74.7 billion to pay for the war in
Iraq. Congress already approved the President's $ 760 billion 10-year tax cut.
The projected budget deficit for 2003 hovers around $ 400 billion. Given this
administration's preference for private market solutions to public problems, the
likelihood of appropriating public money to fund the cost of universal access to
health care seems remote.





n68.  Jonathan Oberlander, Perspective: Are Americans Closer Than We Think to
National Health Insurance? Health Aff., July-Aug. 2002 at 103 available at 2002
WL 12361292.





n69.  Physicians for a National Health Program (PNHP) "is a not-for-profit
organization of physicians, medical students, and other health care
professionals that support a national health insurance program." The
organization advocates in favor of "a single-payer system (where the government
finances health care, but keeps the delivery of health care in mostly private
control) [as] the only solution to solving the United States' many health care
problems" including the problem of "43 million uninsured Americans, skyrocketing
health insurance premiums," "and relatively poor health indicators compared to
similar industrialized nations." Physicians for a Nat'l Health Prog., Home Page,
at http://www.pnhp.org/. The list of PNHP members reads like a "Who's Who in
American Medicine."





n70.  In 1999, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services estimated that
that the government's share of health spending in the United States was 45.3
percent. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, National Health
Expenditures by Type of Service and Source of Funds: Calendar Years 1960-99,
available at www.hcfa.gov/stats/nhe-oact/tables/nhe99.csv (Nov. 12, 2001).





n71.  Steffie Woolhandler & David U. Himmelstein, Paying for National Health
Insurance - and Not Getting it, Health Aff., July-Aug. 2002 at 88 available at
2002 WL 12361289.





n72.  Tax-financed health spending in the United States now exceeds total
spending on medical care in all countries except Switzerland.





n73.  The authors use the example of an employer who pays $ 6,000 toward an
employee's health insurance premium or cost of care. Since the employee is not
required to recognize the $ 6,000, she saves $ 2779 in taxes. If the government
wishes to balance its budget, it must make up for this loss of revenue either by
reducing its spending on other programs to the detriment of the beneficiaries of
that program, or alternatively, raising the taxes of other taxpayers.
Woolhandler & Himmelstein, supra note 71.





n74.  J.F. Sheils & R. A. Haught, The Vermont HRSA State Funding Grant, Office
of Vermont Health Access, Analysis of the Costs and Impact of Universal Health
Care Coverage Under a Single Payer Model for the State of Vermont (Lewin Group,
Aug. 2001) available at
http://www.dsw.state.vt.us/districts/ovha/AnalysoftheCosts.pdf.





n75.  Woolhandler & Himmelstein, supra note 71.





n76.  Are Americans Closer Than We Think to National Health Insurance?, supra
note 68.





n77.  Stone, supra note 15.





n78.  Alan R. Weil, J.D., M.P.P., is Director of the Assessing the New
Federalism project at the Urban Institute.





n79.  Alan R. Weil, The Medical Security System: A Proposal to Ensure Health
Insurance Coverage for All Americans, in Urban Institute, Covering Am. - Real
Remedies for the Uninsured 175 (July 1, 2002).





n80.  Weil suggests that an employer contribution of 7.7% and an employee
contribution of 3.3% of the Social Security wage base would generate
approximately the amount spent on private insurance premiums and would
distribute the costs between employers and employees in accordance with the
national average contributions for family coverage. Id.





n81.  This type of financing structure was known as "pay-or-play" in the Clinton
Health Security Act.





n82.  Managed competition is a market-oriented approach to health care reform
which focuses on correcting the asymmetry of the health insurance market by
creating so-called "sponsors" to perform the same functions for consumers as
employers currently do: researching the health insurance marketplace and
structuring purchasing options. The sponsor would then prepare for consumers a
menu of available benefits packages options which would be required to be
standardized. See generally Alain Enthovan, The Theory and Practice of Managed
Competition in Health Care Finance (1988).





n83.  Weil describes the health insurance exchange as loosely based on the stock
exchange. Stock exchanges create a marketplace for highly regulated goods,
securities, by attracting buyers and sellers to the market. Health insurance
exchanges would create a marketplace in what will be a regulated good, health
insurance, and will succeed only if they can attract both buyers and sellers.
Health insurance will be regulated in the sense that health exchanges must
provide all nationally standardized basic benefits packages, including at least
one no-cost option, and may provide other options as well. All benefits packages
must be offered to participants on a community-rated basis. Weil, supra note 77,
at 178.





n84.  See generally id.





n85.  Joseph P. Newhouse, Melinda Beeuwkes Buntin, & John D. Chapman, Risk
Adjustment and Medicare: Taking a Closer Look, Health Aff., Sept.-Oct. 1997 at
26 available at
http://www.healthaffairs.org/readeragent.php?ID=/usr/local/apache/sites/healthaf
fairs.org/htdocs/Library/v16n5/s3.pdf.





n86.  In addition to HR676, there are a number of states that are contemplating
such legislation including California, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. The California
single-payer bill, SB921, sponsored by Senator Sheila Kuehl (D-Santa Monica) was
introduced to the California Senate on March 2, 2003. SB921 creates a system of
public financing of health care similar to that used for Medicare. Physicians
for a National Health Program, California Single-Payer Bill Introduced at
http://www.pnhp.org.news/archives/001682.php (Mar. 4, 2003).





n87.  This Bill, HR676, is known as the United States National Health Insurance
Act or the Expanded and Improved Medicare for All Act. United States National
Health Insurance Act, H.R. 676, 108th Cong. (2003).





n88.  The benefits package includes primary care and prevention, inpatient care,
outpatient care, emergency care, prescription drugs, durable medical equipment,
long term care, mental health services, dental services, substance abuse
treatment services, chiropractic services and basic vision care and correction.
Id. 102 (a).





n89.  See id. 102 (a) (9), 104.





n90.  See id. 102 (b), 201(c). Currently, under Medicare Parts A and B, the
federal government reimburses providers for services at rates set by the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Under the current system, both
physicians and institutions are reimbursed prospectively in an effort to align
the economic interests of the provider and the payer.





n91.  Employers and employees would continue to pay the 1.45% Medicare payroll
tax already imposed so that employers would, under the USNHI, be paying a 4.7%
payroll tax for health care. Compare this with the payroll tax proposed by the
MSS - 3.3% for employees and 7.7 % for employers - to be applied to the Social
Security wage base. Physicians for a National Health Program, Executive Summary
of The United States National Health Insurance Act (HR676) at
http://pnhp.org/nhibill/nhi execsumm.html.





n92.  See supra notes 77-78 and accompanying text.


                              152 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 10, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Battle over health insurance // As costs rise, employers struggle to keep
coverage

BYLINE: Michael Clements

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 342 words


At Precision Shapes, a 34-employee machine shop in Titusville, Fla.,
health-insurance costs have quadrupled in nearly four years.

"It is the issue that is crippling to small business," says Susan Metzger-Palma,
corporate secretary and benefits manager. "The issue for many is whether to even
carry it any longer, not just what benefits to provide."

The cost of health insurance is a problem for employers of every size. But small
employers are more vulnerable because they lack big business' clout when
bargaining with insurers, doctors and hospitals. So health-care expenses have
become their the most unpredictable business cost.

"I don't think you can do a survey of small employers that access to health
insurance isn't first or second among the most distressing issues that employers
face," says John Polk, executive director of Cleveland's Council of Smaller
Enterprises. "It's not just because it's costly, but small employers view the
cost as being not controllable."

Leslie Aubin of the National Federation of Independent Business says two-thirds
of small employers provide health insurance.

But the recession and rapidly rising medical-care costs have led many small
employers to drop insurance. More than half the 2 million people added to the
rolls of the uninsured from 1988 to 1991 were employees of small businesses and
their families, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute.

At Precision Shapes, Metzger-Palma has battled to cut costs while maintaining
coverage. "I shop around every year," she says. "I look at four different
(insurance) carriers and about three different plans from each one."

She says the company has been "playing all the different angles" to get the best
deals, rearranging benefits and requiring employees to pay higher deductibles
and premiums. She also has worked to make employees better consumers of health
care.

"We explain the basic stuff in plain English," she says. "We want to get the
myth of the provider - that the provider is always right - out of their minds."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w

SMALL BUSINESS BONUS SECTION; COPING; BIG ISSUES FOR SMALL BUSINESS

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              153 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Tribune-Star (Terre Haute, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday

Teachers face higher costs for health care

BYLINE: Sue Loughlin, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute, Ind.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 500 words


Oct. 25--TERRE HAUTE -- Vigo County School Corp. employees can expect to pay
more for health and dental insurance next year, based on a recommendation
discussed Monday night.

They'll also see changes to the health insurance plan that will mean more
out-of-pocket expenses, officials say.

The School Board did not approve the rate increases or changes, but they did
have a lengthy discussion after listening to a presentation from John Orr,
director of human resources. The administration will ask for board action at the
Nov. 14 meeting.

The school district's benefits committee is recommending a 2-percent increase in
health insurance premiums for 2012; the committee includes representatives of
employee groups.

To avoid higher increases in health insurance premiums, the committee recommends
changes in the health insurance plan as follows:

--Increase the current office visit co-pay from $25 to $35 (in-network).

--Decrease plan coinsurance from 90 percent/60 percent to 80 percent/40 percent.

--Increase deductibles from $250/$500 and $500/$1,000 to $500/$1,000 and
$1,000/$2,000.

--Increase out-of-pocket maximum from $1,500/$3,000 and $3,000/$6,000 to
$2,000/$4,000 and $4,000/$8,000.

The benefits committee also recommends an overall rate increase of 7.4 percent
for the dental plan.

The increases are based on use of services (claims) and projected costs
increases.

"Employees will be paying more for their insurance," Orr said.

Also, because of a new state law, the school district can't absorb any more of
the health insurance cost increases, he said. "We must come within 112 percent
of what the state [government] pays for its employee insurance" in individual
premiums.

Currently, the district pays more than that 112 percent and it has three years
to reduce it.  "We have a cap on how much the board can pay," Orr said. "We
can't contribute any more money for the health insurance plan."

If in three years the school district exceeds the 112 percent, it would have to
join the state of Indiana health insurance program, Orr said. The district does
not want to be part of the state plan, which offers "much less" in benefits, he
said.

Meanwhile, health and dental insurance costs are rising, so the costs fall back
to the individual employees, he said.

The benefits committee, which has existed for more than a decade, is making the
recommendation.

"Nobody likes to pay more, but the reality is, this is what we have to do," Orr
said.

Without the plan modifications and higher out-of-pocket costs, the health
insurance premium increase would have been 8.6 percent, Orr said.

The 2-percent health insurance premium increase will help build up the health
insurance reserve fund, necessary in the event of a bad claims year, Orr said.
The district's health insurance program is self funded.

Sue Loughlin can be reached at (812) 231-4235 or sue.loughlin@tribstar.com

___ (c)2011 The Tribune-Star (Terre Haute, Ind.) Visit The Tribune-Star (Terre
Haute, Ind.) at tribstar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111025-TX-Teachers-face-higher-costs-for-health-care-1025-20111025

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TX


                        Copyright 2011 The Tribune-Star


                              154 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     February 27, 2005 Sunday Home Edition

OTHER OPINION: Mandates increase ranks of uninsured

BYLINE: MELODY HARRISON

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. 7E; EQUAL TIME

LENGTH: 632 words


Small businesses all across Georgia are getting clobbered by the rising cost of
health insurance. As a result, many are reducing coverage, offering it only for
the employee and not family members. Some are even eliminating health insurance
altogether.

A survey this month conducted by the Georgia chapter of the National Federation
of Independent Business found that only 41 percent of firms with fewer than 10
employees offered health insurance. That compares to 99 percent of large
companies.

Many of us in the small-business arena believe more small companies would retain
health insurance or offer policies if it weren't for the state's litany of
mandates.

Mandates are tests, procedures or other types of coverage required by state or
federal law in health insurance policies. Mandates make insurance coverage more
expensive and discourage small employers from offering insurance.

In turn, mandates are pushing more Georgians onto the rolls of the uninsured.
Today 1.4 million Georgians are without health insurance, many of them employees
of small businesses.

Under Georgia law, there are 28 such mandates on group health insurance policies
, including optometry care, chlamydia tests and autism treatment. There are 25
mandates required under health insurance policies offered to individuals,
including chiropractic care.

The General Assembly is about to take a step to relieve this problem with
legislation that would provide more flexibility.

A proposal by Rep. John Lunsford (R-McDonough) would give employees of small
business the option to choose expensive, mandate-heavy coverage or more basic
insurance that would come at a cheaper price. A similar bill has been proposed
in the Senate.

The Dallas-based Center for Policy Analysis says that mandates add about 30
percent to the cost of an insurance policy. Economists with the Health Insurance
Association of America say one in four Americans is uninsured because of the
cost of ever-increasing state health insurance mandates.

"Mandating benefits is like saying to someone in the market for a new car, if
you can't afford a Lexus loaded with options, you have to walk," the association
wrote in a January report. "Mandates always cost more money rather than save
it."

The reason for this is simple economics. Those without health insurance cost all
of us more money. They either utilize our community hospitals as indigent
patients, supported with local tax dollars, or they sign up for
government-supported PeachCare or Medicaid.  It would be far better to offer
these workers in small companies affordable, private health insurance than to
put the burden on taxpayers.

The Council for Affordable Health Insurance has documented how government
interference in health care is steadily increasing. In Georgia, some lawmakers
want even more mandates, such as obesity coverage.

In contrast, the new leadership in the Georgia House has pledged only to
consider legislation that will reduce the size of government and enhance
personal responsibility, among other things.

This insurance proposal does just that. It also gives consumers who work for
small businesses more health care options so taxpayers won't have to pay for
their health care.

Right now, workers from small firms have only one option: top-of-the-line
insurance coverage. Consumers always want more choice, and Lunsford's proposal
would give it to them.

While some say that this legislation is "anti-woman" because many mandates
involve medical concerns of women, I view it as pro-consumer.

Some insurance is better than no insurance, and women, especially those caring
for their families, certainly understand that.

Melody Harrison is state director of the Georgia chapter of the National
Federation of Independent Business.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Melody Harrison

TYPE: Column

                Copyright 2005 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              155 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 12, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

RISING COST OF HEALTH INSURANCE WORRIES BALLWIN;
 EMPLOYEES MAY PAY BIGGER PERCENTAGE

BYLINE: Kathie Sutin Special To The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: WEST POST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 311 words


Spiraling health-care costs are threatening to play havoc with Ballwin's budget,
and that may mean employees will face an increase in the portion of the
health-insurance premiums they pay.

City Administrator Robert Kuntz told aldermen last week that Ballwin was facing
yet another increase in health-insurance costs.

"All I can tell you is our carrier told us to budget for a 25 percent rate
increase," Kuntz said in an interview after the meeting. The Board of Aldermen
has asked Kuntz to survey other municipalities to see how much of the
health-insurance premium they are asking employees to cover.

He said he also was searching for ways to hold down the rising costs all
employers - municipal and otherwise - are facing. He has suggested that if
Ballwin receives an increase of more than 10 percent on its renewal on health
insurance, it may want to seek bids and award the contract to the low bidder.

"Then, if the employees wanted to keep the carrier who wasn't the lowest, they
would pay the difference out of their pocket," he added.

The contract with the current company does not expire until April. "But
everybody's got to look at it now for their fiscal-year budget," Kuntz said.

To help keep costs down for Ballwin and to minimize increased costs to the
employees, officials approved last April a health plan that increased
co-payments to $15 from $10 for office visits and to $35 from $25 for emergency
outpatient visits with a tiered price system that increased the cost of generic
drugs to $15 from $7.50 and significantly increased the price employees must pay
for other drugs.

"We've played all those games," Kuntz said. "We increased the deductible as high
we can, but it doesn't seem to make a difference. I don't want to take away the
benefit, but I don't see how the city can absorb a 25 percent increase."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              156 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday

Is it time to give up on your health insurance?

SECTION:

LENGTH: 1156 words


As health insurance costs continue to spiral out of control, more and more
people are opting out of private health cover -- but what are the health and
cost implications if someone gets sick?

Also, what will the influx of additional users mean for an already overburdened
public health system?

1 What is the current state of health of the private health insurance market?

Critical.

Private health insurance premiums have risen by almost 50pc in the past two
years and are expected to rise by at least the same again following changes to
hospital charges and a hike in the levy.

The first quarter of the year is traditionally the busiest time when
approximately 850,000 of the estimated two million-plus who have insurance cover
are due to renew their policies.

Quinn Healthcare costs have gone up by an average of 12pcfrom January 1 with
some plans going up by over 20pc.

VHI announced a 2pc increase last November on top of a 45pc increase introduced
a year ago. Further increases are expected next month.

Aviva meanwhile are increasing their prices by 23pc in two hikes last year and a
further 15pc this year.

2 Why are pricesrising?

Insurance companies blame rises in the cost of private beds in public hospitals
and the cost of private hospitals and consultants. They also cite medical
inflation and the health insurance levy as reasons for the price hikes.

Another factor is the increased demand in medical care in part, at least,
because outcomes of once fatal conditions have improved.

3 How many people are pulling out?

An estimated 6,000 people a month are abandoning health insurance policies.

Since the start of the recession, 123,000 people have terminated their cover
leaving 2.17 million still in the market.

4 Is this trend expected to continue?

In a word, yes. The government levy increase will also be passed on to
beleaguered policy holders and could hike premiums by up to 40pc.

This will mean that a family of two adults and two children could have to pay an
additional EUR220 annually.

Insurance companies have also warned that charges for private beds in public
hospitals, if implemented in full, will result in increases of at least 50pc.

These additional rises could lead to a further 100,000 people cancelling their
cover this year.

The Irish Patients' Association (IPA) has speculated that the cost for an
average family of four could be between EUR7,000 and EUR8,000 a year in six or
seven years, making it an unaffordable option for many.

In a recent online survey on irishhealth.com, 33pc of respondents indicated they
could not afford to renew their insurance polices. A survey just released by the
Irish League of Credit Unions revealed that 31pc warned they would ditch their
cover if there were further premium increases.

However, Health Minister James Reilly is continuing to insist that his policy
will drive down the cost of insurance.

5 What are the implications of a decline in private health insurance take-up?

With the public health system already under-resourced and oversubscribed, it
will struggle to cope with an increased influx of patients.

This will result in longer waiting lists and poorer outcomes for patients.

Stephen McMahon of the IPA warns that pulling out from private health insurance
has huge implications for the public system.

"They fall on a very overstretched public healthcare system and, to be very
blunt, from a healthcare economic point of view, they transform themselves from
being a welcome income generator to the health system to be a cost burden," he
said.

6 So is it worth keeping health insurance?

Having insurance is beneficial when it comes to accessing private and
semi-private rooms in public hospitals and any stays in private hospitals.

Getting to a private hospital usually means avoiding queues and waiting lists.
It also gives you access to more hospitals and more treatments.

A patient needing medical treatment without health insurance is faced with the
choice of going into the public system or funding private healthcare themselves.

And, contrary to popular perception, unless you have a medical card, or are
exempt for certain medical conditions, public healthcare is not cost-free.

The cost of a bed in a public hospital is EUR75 per day, up to a maximum of
EUR750 in a 12-month period.

A private bed in a public hospital can vary in cost from EUR260 to EUR1,017 per
night. The cost of a semi-private bed can range from EUR222 to EUR889 per night
while day-care costs can range from EUR193 to EUR732.

The cost of seeing a consultant can vary from EUR150 to EUR300, though even
those with health insurance can be hit with consultant charges.

Surgery costs can also be considerable.

Operations for appendicitis or tonsillitis could cost around EUR5,000. A hip
replacement could cost more than EUR16,000 while a pacemaker could cost over
EUR30,000 and a heart bypass EUR40,000.

A day procedure in a private hospital for something as simple as getting a mole
removed could cost up to EUR1,000.

7 What then are the implications of pulling out?

Patients in the public system, who are diagnosed with relatively minor
conditions such as a blocked artery or a bad hip, can be left waiting months or
longer to see a consultant and access treatment.

However if you are diagnosed with a serious, life-threatening condition you will
be treated with priority.

Paying directly for treatment could put a patient or family into serious debt.

8 What are the alternatives?

Shop around.

You have the right to switch health insurance provider without incurring penalty
or having to reserve waiting periods. You also have the option of reducing the
level of cover you have.

Private health insurance expert Dermot Goode, founder of
healthinsurancesavings.ie, points out a basic health insurance plan can cost as
little as EUR495.

"This idea of putting aside a few bob to cover rainy day rather than taking out
insurance, just doesn't work. Firstly, you won't do it and secondly, your
savings could be wiped out with one small minor admission," he said.

He points out that there are over 200 plans across three insurance companies,
some of which offer great value.

Goode advises against contacting insurance companies and telling them you cannot
afford your current plan.

"You are better phoning them up and saying: 'I have two adults, two children and
EUR1,800 to spend. What can you give me''

"They have to go and come up with a mishmash of plans to fit your budget.

"I do presentations all the time and 60-70pc of the people I present to are all
on the wrong plans and don't fully understand what they are on," he said.

The Health Insurance Authority website hia.ie shows price and cover comparisons
between various plans.

Individuals also have the option of switching to often discounted corporate
plans.

The Hospital Saturday Fund cash-back plan is a cheaper alternative to health
insurance with optimum cover at a cost of EUR55 offer grants of EUR120 per
hospital night.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             April 11, 2011 Monday

Reilly denies universal insurance could increase healthcare costs

BYLINE: MARTIN WALL

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 355 words


MINISTER FOR Health James Reilly has rejected suggestions by the Department of
Finance that the Government s plan to introduce a universal health insurance
system could increase public healthcare costs.

In briefing material drawn up for Minister for Finance Michael Noonan, the
Department of Finance warned against a universal health insurance model. The
department favoured reviewing eligibility for services, requiring patients to
pay some costs themselves; tackling barriers and anti-competitive practices; and
clamping down on unnecessary subsidies.

The Department of Health indicated at the weekend that while it acknowledged the
Department of Finance had concerns about rising costs, the Minister for Health
did not agree with this position.

It is the Minister s view that this won t happen because it [universal health
insurance] will be driving down the cost of care across primary care and
secondary care both in terms of hospital costs, consultant costs and GP costs.

In its briefing material, the Department of Finance warned:  The introduction of
a universal health insurance system (whether a public or private insurance
model) could push up the cost of public healthcare on the assumption that there
would be a corresponding expectation of universal entitlement to primary,
community and hospital care.

The ability to pitch and collect a universal insurance payment at a sufficiently
high level to fund universal entitlements to healthcare may be constrained for
some time by declining disposable household incomes due to unemployment and
higher taxation necessitated by the crisis in the public finances, the
increasing numbers of households reliant on medical cards [and] the declining
numbers who can afford private health insurance.

The department said one sustainable approach to improving access to healthcare
based on medical need and affordability would be  to review eligibility and to
develop the policy of co-payments by service users while tackling barriers and
anti-competitive practices in the public and private systems and ensuring that
service users and service providers are not subsidised unnecessarily .

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Hays Daily News (Kansas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 17, 2010 Thursday

Insurance costs taking chunk of change

BYLINE: Gayle Weber, The Hays Daily News, Kan.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 332 words


Jun. 17--In a little more than five months, Ellis County has paid out more than
$1 million in health insurance claims and administrative fees.

The county could be on course to reach its stop-loss of nearly $2.5 million, and
county commissioners want to do something to curb the steadily increasing costs
associated with their self-funded health insurance through Blue Cross Blue
Shield of Kansas.

"I doubt that we have enough budgeted to cover health insurance this year,"
Ellis County Clerk Alberta Klaus told commissioners Wednesday.

Slightly more than $2 million was budgeted in 2009 and 2010, and 2009 costs
already exceeded nearly the same figure by $400,000.

Commissioners also are facing anywhere from a 12 percent to 20 percent spike in
costs for 2011.

"We're almost going to have to budget for our stop-loss, I think," Commissioner
Glenn Diehl said.

The county still is in negotiations with employees about ways to decrease the
cost of health insurance.

Last year, the county doubled the deductible for the insurance plan in order to
reduce costs. Commissioners also looked at eliminating employees' spouses from
the county plan if those spouses could obtain insurance from their own
employers. That change is being looked at again this year.

"This is getting out of hand," Diehl said of the costs.

If no adjustments are made, Ellis County likely would be looking at a 2-mill
increase in the 2011 budget just to cover rising health insurance costs. Klaus
said she preliminarily would budget for a 15-percent increase to bring estimated
health insurance costs to $2.79 million for 2011.

To see more of The Hays Daily News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.hdnews.net. Copyright (c) 2010, The Hays Daily News, Kan. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100617-EZ-Insurance-costs-taking-chunk-of-change-0617

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EZ


                       Copyright 2010 The Hays Daily News


                              159 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Duluth News-Tribune (Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday

Health insurance inflation slowing in Wisconsin, report says

BYLINE: John Lundy, Duluth News Tribune

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 676 words


Dec. 22--Health insurance inflation has slowed considerably in Wisconsin since
the Affordable Care Act went into effect, according to a report released on
Wednesday.

"We're not saying ... that the Affordable Care Act caused the inflation rate in
health insurance to come down," said Robert Kraig, executive director of the
consumer advocacy group Citizen Action of Wisconsin, and lead author of the
report. "What we are saying is that claims that health insurance costs have
spiked because of the Affordable Care Act are not supported by this data."

The rate of inflation for large group premiums and deductibles from 2000-13
averaged 15 percent annually in Wisconsin, according to the report. But from
2014-17 -- post-Obamacare -- the state's annual rate averaged 2 percent.

The data from the report are "contrary to a lot of conventional wisdom in the
last election," Kraig said.

The figures for Superior were 14 percent before Obamacare and 2 percent after.

In a telephone news conference, Kraig, state Sen. Jon Erpenbach, D-Middleton,
and others used the report as a warning to President-elect Donald Trump and the
Republican-led Congress as well as to Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to use caution
in undoing health care reforms of recent years.

"If it's just repealed, we're looking at huge increases in inflation again,"
said Erpenbach, who asserted that the slowdown in the inflation rate was related
to Affordable Care Act reforms.

What hasn't changed, Kraig said, is a significant regional disparity in the cost
of health insurance, with the lowest rates in Madison and the highest in the
northern part of the state.

In Northwestern Wisconsin, that may have as much to do with what care costs as
it does with insurance, Kraig said.

"Superior and Douglas County and (the surrounding area) have been consistently
high throughout the history of this report, and it's high for all types of
insurance," he said. "That indicates that the underlying price of medical care
is probably the factor."

It's difficult to pin that down because of lack of transparency in pricing by
pharmaceutical corporations and hospitals, said Kevin Kane of Citizen Action of
Wisconsin, who co-authored the report.

"Part of what we keep uncovering here is that there are tremendous geographic
variations that cannot be explained by quality, it can not be explained by the
... insurance companies alone," Kane said.

Among the 20 Wisconsin metropolitan areas studied, Superior had the
sixth-highest overall health insurance cost for 2017 and the fourth-highest in
the large group market, according to the report. Its single annual cost for
premiums and deductibles in that category of just over $10,000 compares with a
state average of just over $9,500 and a Madison cost of just under $8,000.

In terms of quality of health insurance plans, Superior ranked near the top,
tied with Madison at 3.5 stars on a 5-star scale.

Based on the data, the cost of health insurance doesn't seem to correlate with
quality, Kraig said.

"It's not a matter of you get what you pay for in health insurance," he said.
"Quite the contrary."

This was the group's 11th annual report on Wisconsin regional health insurance
costs.

Kraig, Kane and Erpenbach were joined by Tammy Wolfgram, who with her father
owns a golf club in Hartland, Wis.

She and her late husband both had pre-existing conditions, Wolfgram said, and
their youngest daughter had epilepsy. Before the Affordable Care Act, "we could
not find private insurance who would accept us," she said.

But after the act became law, they didn't have to worry about being rejected,
Wolfgram said. Her daughter, now over 26 and on her own, has affordable
insurance through the federal healthcare.gov website with low total
out-of-pocket costs.

"If the Affordable Care Act is just repealed, I don't know what we'll do,
especially for my daughter," Wolfgram said. "She would just be out in the cold."

___ (c)2016 the Duluth News Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) Visit the Duluth News
Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) at www.duluthnewstribune.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161222-DU-Health-insurance
-inflation-slowing-in-Wisconsin-report-says-1222-20161222

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DU


                       Copyright 2016 Duluth News-Tribune


                              160 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             March 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

iSelect hits back at AMA over health insurance report

BYLINE: Tim Binsted

SECTION: FINANCIAL SERVICES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 576 words


Comparison website iSelect has hit back at the Australian Medical Association
for its attack on comparators in its inaugural health insurance report, saying
the real pressure on consumers comes from the soaring cost of healthcare.

In its report last week the AMA, which lobbies on behalf of doctors, singled out
for-profit health insurance comparators like iSelect as a serious concern. The
AMA questioned both the independence of policy recommendations on such websites
and the influence of commissions from the health funds.

iSelect chief executive Scott Wilson said that contrary to the AMA's assertions,
commissions do not influence policy recommendations and do not increase the
overall cost of health insurance.

"Our sale prices are not influenced by our commissions. The individual [iSelect
sales] adviser does not know what the commissions are from individual funds," he
said.

"Compared to having to run your branches and pay for advertising [to win
customers] we are a low-cost channel."

In a statement last week AMA president Brian Owler accused comparison websites
of earning "exorbitant" fees and said they need to be more transparent and
subject to tighter regulation.

Health funds such as Bupa have also attacked the likes of iSelect for offering a
relatively small proportion of products and charging big fees.

Rival comparison website Compare the Market last month went public with its
commissions in a bid to win consumer trust.

The company charges a flat 27.75 per cent of the first year's premium on a
health policy.

Mr Wilson said he has "commercial-in-confidence" requirements that prevent him
disclosing iSelect's fees.

But he said iSelect's commissions do not vary widely, are in the "mid 30s", in
percentage terms, of the first year's premium, and on average equated to $804
per policy sale in the six months ended December 31.

In 2015 about 130,000 health insurance policies were sold through iSelect's
website, about 20 per cent of the national total.

Health funds, corporates, doctors, comparison websites and other interest groups
are locked in a fierce battle to influence health policy in their favour.

Health Minister Sussan Ley is conducting six separate reviews, including one of
private health insurance, and has costs in the firing line.

Consumer anger over soaring health insurance premiums and confusing products is
another key issue for the minister.

Mr Wilson said that more than 80Â¢ in every dollar of premium revenue is paid
out in medical benefits, and the key driver of premium rises is surging
healthcare costs.

"There is a lot of noise around where the cost of premiums is going. The vast
majority of the real cost of private health insurance is in benefits and
claims," he said.

The nation's biggest private health insurer, Medibank Private, was also angry at
the AMA's report card, particularly its portrayal of out-of-pocket costs.

"Doctors are free to set their charges above the MBS [Medicare Benefits
Schedule] fee or rates insurers pay under gap cover schemes," a Medibank
spokesman said.

"However, Medibank, like all insurers, cannot just pay any fee doctors may
choose to charge, as this would make private health insurance premiums
unaffordable for all members."

In a report released last week the Australian Taxation Office said that
surgeons, anaesthetists and specialist physicians were, on average, the nation's
top three income earners in 2013-14, with respective average incomes of
$375,097, $331,867 and $279,022.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: iSelect CEO Scott Wilson says commissions do not increase the
overall cost of health insurance.. PHOTO: PETER BRAIG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Ocala Star-Banner (Florida)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 25, 2015 Thursday

District health insurance costs to rise

BYLINE: Joe Callahan, Ocala Star-Banner, Fla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 633 words


June 25--The Marion County School Board learned Thursday it will have to spend
$2.5 million more in 2016 to offer the same health insurance coverage it did
this year to its 6,000 employees.

With that 10 percent increase, the cost of health insurance will rise to $34.7
million overall, with $27.7 million of that total paid by the district.

Health insurance is offered free to employees, who must purchase family plans to
cover spouses and children. Health insurance contracts run during the calendar
year -- not during the school district's fiscal year, which begins on Tuesday.

The good news is School Board members seem to have reached a consensus on how to
cover the additional cost without any added expense to employees. The bad news
is the School Board's plan to decrease employee deductibles, as well as copays
for specialty doctor care, will not likely happen this year.

The reason: If the district decided to lower deductibles and copays, the
additional cost would rise from $2.5 million to $4.6 million in 2016.

The news came at a School Board work session on Thursday, where officials
unveiled the winning bidder for the 2016 health insurance coverage. The board
will officially vote on the winning bidder in July.

Once again, Florida Blue -- formerly BlueCross BlueShield of Florida -- had the
best quote. Florida Blue has been the district's insurance carrier for many
years. The second closest bidder was United HealthCare at $37.4 million -- $2.5
million higher than Florida Blue.

So far it appears most of the board is in favor of budgeting for the extra $2.5
million without passing on additional cost to employees.

The district's health insurance consultant, Kathy Gordon of Siver Insurance
Consultants, recommended the district not lower the deductibles because "you may
have to turn around and raise them back next year if costs continue to climb."

It would cost the district an additional $1.1 million to reduce the individual
deductible from $2,500 to $1,500 and the family maximum from $5,000 to $3,000.
The additional cost to the district of just reducing the specialty doctor copay
would be $1 million in 2016.

Florida Blue officials offered to give the district its $1.7 million in earned
credits early, possibly this year, if the district signed a three-year contract.
Gordon told the board that if they received those dollars now, they shouldn't
expect any more credits for a couple of years.

School Board member Bobby James is in favor of earmarking that $1.7 million
credit to offset the extra cost of insurance and not just placing it in the
general fund to use in other areas.

James wants to review the documents and determine if he will ask the board to
approve the additional $1.1 million to reduce the deductibles.

Adding in the additional cost of lowering the deductibles, the district would be
in line to pay $3.6 million more in 2016. If the $1.7 million credit is applied,
the extra cost would only be $1.9 million.

"I want to look at this some more," James noted.

The board could have sought a restructure of the benefits, requiring even higher
copays and out-of-pocket maximums, to close the $2.5 million gap. However, a
district insurance committee, Superintendent of Schools George Tomyn and the
district's consultant all recommended no changes be made.

Tomyn said his finance department is budgeting for the insurance increase. Tomyn
will unveil the 2015-16 budget on July 23.

After the board approves a vendor in July, the district officially will
negotiate the contract. By early September, the board will vote on the final
contract for 2016.

Contact Joe Callahan at joe.callahan@starbanner.com or on Twitter @JoeOcalaNews.

___ (c)2015 Ocala Star-Banner (Ocala, Fla.) Visit the Ocala Star-Banner (Ocala,
Fla.) at www.ocala.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150625-OA-District-health-insurance-costs-to-rise-20150625

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OA


                        Copyright 2015 Ocala Star-Banner


                              162 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Opting out is definitely an option

BYLINE: Alan Mitchell

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 954 words


Before we consider radical changes, we could try to make the present health
insurance system work better, writes economics editor Alan Mitchell.

Where to now for Medicare and private health insurance? The budget revealed that
the government has found a simple way to shave the cost of the health insurance
levy by $2 billion over the next five years without significantly undermining
the private health insurers or adding to the pressure on public hospitals.

This will occur as the government pumps billions of dollars into the public
hospitals, thereby reducing queues and the financial pressure on the system.

The new rebates and levy surcharges are a further step down the path towards a
means-tested compulsory health insurance system, in which healthy higher-income
earners are pressed into cross-subsidising the older and less healthy privately
insured.

In the process it promises to make Medicare more financially sustainable
(although the public hospitals remain vulnerable to being squeezed in periods of
prolonged fiscal strain, such as the one we may now be entering.)

But it does so without gaining the benefits of a more fully integrated and
competitive private and public health-care market.

As a number of economists have argued, that could be developed by allowing the
privately insured to "opt out" of Medicare. In doing so, they would take with
them the (presumably means-tested) value of their Medicare hospital insurance,
which is based on the cost of public-patient treatment in public hospitals and
exceeds the value of the full private health insurance rebate.

At present people taking out private insurance must also retain their Medicare
insurance for use exclusively in public hospitals. Opting out would make private
health insurance cheaper and more competitive. The government would be honouring
the basic Medicare objective of providing universal health insurance, while
giving the public greater choice.

Those who opted out still would be entitled to treatment in public hospitals.
Ideally, they would be entitled to purchase public-patient level treatment in
public hospitals. But the cost would be borne by their health funds rather than
directly by the government. Public hospitals would charge private patients the
full cost of both what now is called their public and private patient treatment.

Similarly, Medicare public patients ultimately should also be free to use their
basic cover to purchase basic treatment in private hospitals. This would be
provided by private hospitals in the same way that luxury hotels offer cheap
packages to fill their spare capacity. The Medicare program would evolve into a
general basic insurer as well as the main funder of public hospitals.

The gains for the federal government should build over time. Wider use of
private health insurance would encourage the development of private hospitals to
compete with the public sector. A larger choice of hospitals, at least in the
major cities, and the freer movement of patients between the two sectors should
increase the scope for both Medicare and the private funds to extract efficiency
improvements from the hospital system. This would be achieved by the use of
case-mix funding.

Under case-mix funding, public hospitals are financed by the government for the
specific services they provide rather than according to costs they incur.
Because the cost of producing medical services varies between hospitals,
case-mix budgets can be used to put pressure on hospitals with above-average
costs and to encourage hospitals to specialise in areas where they have a cost
advantage.

The efficiency improvements are forced by setting insurance payments for each
service at, say, the average cost across all hospitals. Hospitals in which costs
are above average are forced to become more efficient or shrink or even close.
Hospitals with below-average costs make increased profits and expand.

Most hospitals are more efficient at doing some things than others. One way for
hospitals to increase their overall efficiency is to specialise more in the
services at which they are relatively efficient.

The efficiencies of case-mix funding are open to governments now, but few
governments have found it possible to use case-mix funding to its full
potential.

There naturally will be doubts about whether the private health insurance funds
can be trusted to do any better. And ultimately, cost control in the health-care
sector might require a more radical restructuring of health insurance.

Many economists are drawn to "managed-care" insurance arrangements in which
insurers act as purchasing agents for their members. In that model the health
insurance fund has a similar role to the travel agency, using its superior
knowledge and bargaining power to secure a good deal for its client.

Increased reliance on managed care may prove to be necessary. Efficiency in
health care is a double-edged sword in a system of universal insurance. While it
reduces the cost of a given quantity of services, it also permits increased
provision of services for a given number of health-care workers, which can be a
problem when consumers have very limited knowledge about what services they
need. Governments and private insurers naturally are concerned about the scope
for overservicing.

But the medical profession has legitimate concerns about managed care, and
before we consider such radical changes, we could try to make the present health
insurance system work better. Health funds already negotiate with private
hospitals over fees. And hospitals and their specialists can give patients and
their insurers advance information on their fees.

The challenge is to extract the benefits potentially available from a more
competitive health-care system.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The government would be honouring the basic Medicare objective
while giving the public greater choice. Photo: NIC WALKER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2009 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 7, 1992, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

PATENT MEDICINE FROM DR. BUSH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 510 words


President Bush's health-care package, unveiled Thursday in Cleveland, fails
toaddress basic problems that fuel medical inflation and send health-insurance
costs beyond the reach of at least 34 million Americans. The president begins
with the premise that what's ailing the system can be fixed primarily through
tax laws. He's offering breaks ranging from $1,250 to $3,750 a year for
individuals and families to offset private insurance premiums.  The breaks would
be in the form of tax-credit vouchers for the poor and health-insurance tax
deductions for families with incomes under $80,000 a year. Mr. Bush also
promised to address waste and said he would encourage what he calls HINs, or
Health Insurance Networks, as a way of covering more consumers at lower costs.
He also attacked national health insurance by reciting the standard litany of
alleged shortcomings, including long waiting lists and less medical technology,
claims which have been shown to be exaggerated. In fact, the centerpieces of the
president's proposal explain why national health insurance is so much more
preferable to his plan.  Unlike national health insurance, the tax-break
approach would leave many families with far too many out-of-pocket health
expenses. Families USA, a private health-care advocacy group, notes that
families would still have to pay a large share of the cost. It notes that health
spending per U.S.  family averaged $6,535 last year. President Bush's maximum
tax credit doesn't approach that amount.  How will he finance his plan,
projected to cost at least $35 billion a year? That's $35 billion on top of
what's already spent on U.S. health care.  Mr. Bush says he would contain the
costs of Medicare and Medicaid recipients, which, translated, means cutbacks in
those programs. Medicare is a federal health insurance program for the elderly,
and the federal-state funded Medicaid program covers the poor. These cuts could
be devastating since care providers already complain about low Medicare-Medicaid
reimbursement rates.  Yet the president takes pity on the forces that really
drive up the price of health care. His HIN plan seeks to expand private
insurance with no restraints on costs. Administrative expenses for Medicare and
Medicaid run about 3 percent. For private insurers, those expenses average 15
percent.  These expenses alone add billions of dollars to the p rice of health
care, money consumers wouldn't have to spend under a single-payer, national
health insurance system.  The fundamental issues - affordability and
accessibility - are largely overlooked by Mr. Bush. This nation spends enough
now on health insurance to finance a world-class national health insurance
program with plenty of cost controls. These would include negotiated payments
for providers, a single payer system to reduce administrative expenses and less
high-tech medicine.  Mr. Bush hasn't addressed any of these issues. He required
Americans to wait more than two years for a plan that's a disappointment, even
to some members of his own party.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              164 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Washington: National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program: Revised Amount of the
Average Cost of a Health Insurance Policy

LENGTH: 456  words

DATELINE: Washington


Federal Register, The Government of USA has issued the following notice:

[Federal Register Volume 79, Number 224 (Thursday, November 20, 2014)]
[Notices]
[Page 69124]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Printing Office
[www.gpo.gov]
[FR Doc No: 2014-27432]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

Health Resources and Services Administration


National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program: Revised Amount of
the Average Cost of a Health Insurance Policy

The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) is
publishing an updated monetary amount of the average cost of a health
insurance policy as it relates to the National Vaccine Injury
Compensation Program (VICP).
 Section 100.2 of the VICP's implementing regulation (42 CFR Part
100) states that the revised amounts of an average cost of a health
insurance policy, as determined by the Secretary, are to be published
periodically in a notice in the Federal Register and filed with the
United States Court of Federal Claims (the Court). This figure is
calculated using the most recent Medical Expenditure Panel Survey--
Insurance Component (MEPS-IC) data available as the baseline for the
average monthly cost of a health insurance policy. This baseline is
adjusted by the annual percentage increase/decrease obtained from the
most recent annual Kaiser Family Foundation and Health Research and
Educational Trust (KFF/HRET) Employer Health Benefits survey or other
authoritative source that may be more accurate or appropriate.
 In 2014, MEPS-IC, available at www.meps.ahrq.gov, published the
annual 2013 average total single premium per enrolled employee at
private-sector establishments that provide health insurance. The figure
published was $5,571. This figure is divided by 12-months to determine
the cost per month of $464.25. The $464.25 shall be increased or
decreased by the percentage change reported by the most recent KFF/
HRET, available at www.kff.org. The percentage increase from 2013 to
2014 was published at 2 percent. By adding this percentage increase,
the calculated average monthly cost of a health insurance policy is
$473.54 for 2014.
 Therefore, the Secretary announces that the revised average cost of
a health insurance policy under the VICP is $473.54 per month. In
accordance with Sec. 100.2, the revised amount was effective upon its
delivery by the Secretary to the Court. Such notice was delivered to
the Court on November 13, 2014.

Dated: November 13, 2014.
Mary K. Wakefield,
Administrator.
[FR Doc. 2014-27432 Filed 11-19-14; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4165-15-P


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                            March 27, 1990, Tuesday

MOST EXECUTIVES OPPOSE NATIONAL HEALTH COVER

BYLINE: From Wire Reports

SECTION: INSURANCE, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A majority of business executives who participated in a survey oppose national
health insurance as a way to remedy soaring U.S. health-care costs, according to
the poll conducted by the Health Insurance Association of America.

The health insurance group, which represents major health insurance companies,
said 94 percent of the Fortune 1000 executives it surveyed were pposed to
national health insurance.

"Corporate America believes a private sector-public sector approach is the most
practical, cost-effective method of providing access to health care and solving
our nation's soaring health-care costs," said Carl J. Schramm, the group's
president.

Over 60 percent of the executives responding to the survey said the private
sector alone should take responsibility for controlling health-care financing
costs, while more than 30 percent said business should join government in
seeking a solution, the group said.

Numerous federal efforts are under way both in Congress and the Bush
administration to improve access to health care and to seek ways to control
health-care costs, which have been rising far faster than the inflation rate in
recent years.

About 37 million Americans, the majority of them employees or children, do not
have any health insurance because they cannot afford it and do not qualify for
government-sponsored programs.

A bipartisan congressional committee, the Pepper Commission, recently
recommended an employer-based, private-public partnership to extend health
insurance coverage and limited long-term care to all Americans.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              166 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Salem News (Beverly, Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday

Owners appeal to governor to ease rising health insurance costs

BYLINE: Paul Leighton, The Salem News, Beverly, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 657 words


Mar. 13--SALEM -- When it comes to discussions about the impact of soaring
health insurance costs, Gov. Deval Patrick said small-business owners have never
had "a seat at the table."

Yesterday in Salem, they had 12 seats -- all of them directly across from the
governor himself.

In a two-hour meeting at the Enterprise Center at Salem State College, a dozen
small-business owners told Patrick of the devastating consequences of their
out-of-control health insurance costs.

The owners of businesses ranging from flavored drinks to machine shops to
restaurants said the staggering costs of health insurance for themselves and
their employees is causing layoffs, stifling growth and threatening to put them
out of business.

"It's almost catastrophic," said George Carey of Finz Restaurant in Salem. "We
really can't talk anymore about it because it's to the point now where it's
suffocating us."

When Patrick asked each owner how much their health insurance costs are going up
this year, one response drew gasps from even the hardened business owners.

"Fifty-three percent," said Joseph Kowalik, who owns Graphx Inc. in Woburn. "I
should just outsource this company to India and I wouldn't have to worry about
this. But I don't want to do that."

New England Cranberry Co. owner Ted Stux told Patrick that health insurance
costs -- $16,000 per year for a family plan for one of his employees -- now
account for 10 percent of the cost of every jar of cranberry sauce his company
produces.

"I never would have thought about that before," he said.

Karen Barth, owner of a startup company called Flavrz Drink Mix in Gloucester,
said health insurance costs are so prohibitive that she would prefer to hire
someone who gets insurance through their spouse's plan.

"I have to hire the person who is already covered and I feel terrible about
that," she said.

Paula Gravallese, who with her husband owns Caffe Graziani in Salem, said the
premium for her family plan went up 29 percent, even though it's a less costly
plan with less coverage.

"God forbid, I feel we are just one accident or a disease from closing our
doors," Gravallese said. "And we put our life into this."

Patrick said the long-term answer is to change the way medical providers are
paid, but he said small-business owners cannot afford to wait for long-term
solutions. He called the situation "an emergency."

"Eight-five percent of businesses in the commonwealth are small businesses or
sole proprietors," he told the business owners. "If you don't hire, we don't get
a recovery."

In an effort to address the problem immediately, Patrick has filed a bill that
would cap health insurance increases that exceed 11Ã¢n2 times the rate of
medical inflation.

He also expressed support yesterday for legislation filed by state Rep. Steven
Walsh of Lynn that would allow small businesses to form groups that would give
them more clout to negotiate lower premiums.

"I'm very open to that," Patrick said in an interview after the meeting.
"There's more than one stop-gap solution. The long-term solution is payment
reform, but the point is we've got to act. Nobody can help right now but the
government. This is how we can help."

Enterprise Center Executive Director Christine Sullivan called health insurance
costs "the single unifying catalytic issue" among owners of small companies.

"To listen to small businesses on this topic is excruciating," she said.
"Everybody at this table has a tale of woe."

Staff writer Paul Leighton can be reached at 978-338-2675 or by e-mail at
pleighton@salemnews.com

To see more of The Salem News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.salemnews.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Salem News, Beverly, Mass.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100313-ZS-Owners-appeal-to-governor-to-ease-rising-
health-insurance-costs-0313

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZS


                         Copyright 2010 The Salem News


                              167 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                              June 8, 1990, Friday

HEALTH COVER STUDIED GAO CITES DROP IN AVAILABILITY

BYLINE: BRIGITTE MAXEY; Journal of Commerce Staff

SECTION: INSURANCE, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of workers without health insurance in the United States threatens to
grow as small companies are confronted with rising rates and a decreasing
availability of health insurance, according to a study conducted by the U.S.
General Accounting Office.

The GAO found that small companies are facing severe problems in providing
health coverage for their employees. Small companies are defined as those that
mploy 25 or fewer workers.

"The problems facing small firms are very serious. They pay more than large
firms, their premiums increase at greater rates and unlike the large firms, they
are unable to self-insure," Mark Nadel, associate director, National and Public
Health Issues for the GAO, said.

According to the GAO's report, more than half the companies with fewer than 10
employees and nearly one-quarter of the companies with 10 to 24 employees do not
offer group health insurance to their workers.

The reason most often cited by these companies as to why they do not provide
health insurance to their employees is the restrictive underwriting practices of
insurance companies.

Through restrictive medical underwriting, some insurers move costly industries,
companies or individuals out of their risk pool by excluding employees with
pre-existing conditions such as cancer, diabetes or other high- cost illnesses.
In some cases, individuals are denied coverage; in other cases, only the
pre-existing condition is excluded.

"The Health Insurance Association of America is very concerned the insurance
market is not functioning very well for small groups. We believe that health
insurance should be much more widely accessible to small business," Donald
White, spokesman for the Health Insurance Association, said.

The GAO report estimates tha t there are over 9 million uninsured workers
employed by small businesses.

"We are the only country outside of South Africa that has not come up with a
universal health care coverage scheme," said Robert Hunter, president of the
Washington, D.C.-based National Insurance Consumer Organization.

Mr. Hunter recommended the U.S. government become more accountable to its
citizens.

"We have chosen to ration health insurance based upon wealth instead of need.
Now we're running out of money. There is no question that the private insurance
mechanism is going to fail. The only way to fix it is to get rid of the private
insurers by the government providing the basic health insurance coverage," Mr.
Hunter said.

During testimony before the U.S. Senate Antitrust Subcommittee, Mr. Nadel
presented a number of ways to reform the health insurance system.

He recommended prohibiting insurers from selecting, classifying, evaluating and
assuming group risks according to their insurability. Pre- existing medical
problems should not exclude employees from coverage, Mr. Nadel testified.

"Companies are competing to insure the healthiest insureds. This leaves the
other companies paying higher amounts to get their employees covered," Mr. Nadel
said.

The GAO study also examined ways employers cut health insurance costs by
limiting employee coverage, increasing employee cost-sharing, choosing to
self-insure and adopting managed care programs.

The study revealed that except for the aged and disabled, most individuals with
health insurance are insured through employer-sponsored health plans.

The number of individuals insured in this way doubled between 1970 and 1987
causing employers to adopt a wide variety of cost-cutting measures, the GAO
study said.

One cost-cutting measure employers have adopted is to offer reduced health care
benefits to two-income families. Employers have taken this action because
members of these families do not equally utilize the plans they are covered by.

Instead, two-income families tend to submit claims to the health insurance plan
with the better benefits. This, in turn, causes the employer with the richer
health insurance plan to bear a proportionally higher share of the employee's
health care costs.

Another way employers have cut health insurance costs is contribute more to
individual insurance premiums than to family policies.

The survey concluded that employers paid 95 percent of the premiums paid by
individuals compared with 77 percent of the premium paid by families.

The report revealed that between 1986 and 1988, the average annual employee
contribution rose to $ 605 from $ 435. During the same period, the number of
employers requiring employee contributions increased by 20 percent.

The General Accounting Office also found that most large companies adopt
self-insurance health plans. One important reason is that self-insured companies
are not subject to state insurance regulation.

Consequently, self-insured companies not only gain control over use of their
reserve funds, but can reduce costs by avoiding state-mandated benefits and
state-imposed insurance premium taxes.

Other companies have attempted to reduce costs by adopting systems to control
and coordinate employee use of health care services called managed care systems.

These plans include health maintenance organizations and preferred provider
plans, which restrict the range of health care providers from which the employee
may receive health care.

The report does not contain any specific recommendations to increase the
availability of health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              168 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                           November 22, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

O'Brien delays health insurance changes to July

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 716 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


City Manager Michael V. O'Brien is delaying until July 1 health care costs
reforms for municipal and public school retirees enrolled in conventional city
health insurance plans.

Mr. O'Brien said yesterday his decision to delay the reforms six months will
afford those retirees an opportunity to research and evaluate the various health
care options provided by the city.

He said the changes will be thoroughly explained to retirees when the city holds
its next open enrollment for health insurance, in late April or early May.

Retirees who choose to remain on conventional health insurance plans will pay 20
percent of their health insurance premium costs, while the city will pay 80
percent, the manager said. Currently, retirees contribute no more than 13
percent to the cost of health care.

There will also be a three-tiered drug prescription co-pay ($10/$20/$35)
compared to the two-tiered plan ($5/$10) that now exists, and office visit
co-pays will increase from $5 to $10.

"I will institute a thorough outreach to these retirees on conventional plans to
provide them all the information necessary as to the various opportunities
available during open enrollment," Mr. O'Brien said. "Additional information
sessions will be held for all retirees to learn more about this topic and to
better prepare for the changes in plan designs."

The manager's decision to delay implementation of his health care cost reforms
comes just one week after introducing it to the City Council. Retirees objected
to the plan as a whole, while several city councilors roundly criticized the
process and timing used by the manager, calling it a "major mistake" on his
part.

Mr. O'Brien initially wanted to implement the cost reforms Jan. 1. He said his
planned changes for retirees alone would save the city $2 million.

But after several city councilors criticized the process used by the manager,
Mr. O'Brien last Tuesday night agreed to delay implementing the plan one week,
so he could have more time to study the matter. After further analysis and
weighing the concerns raised by the council, the manager decided to delay the
plan until July 1.

Mr. O'Brien said his decision to defer the health insurance reforms for retirees
on conventional plans has a cost associated with it of about $500,000.

To offset the anticipated loss in health insurance savings, the manager is
recommending the use of property taxes generated from new construction, so the
existing health insurance benefits can be maintained. He said tax revenues from
new construction have come in much higher than what was budgeted for this fiscal
year.

"With this six-month deferment, I believe it provides these retirees the
opportunity to evaluate their health care plan choices and make informed choices
on these benefits," Mr. O'Brien said.

The reforms are intended to help put the brakes on the city's skyrocketing
health insurance costs and align its health plans with trends in both the public
and private industry. Since 2001, overall city health insurance costs have
increased 98 percent, from $33.4 million to nearly $65.9 million, the manager
said. That increase is 35 percent higher than the statewide average.

There are 4,431 retirees enrolled in health insurance plans offered by the city.
Of that total, 2,731 are in Medicare supplemental plans. Mr. O'Brien said those
retirees have been and will continue to pay 25 percent contribution rates, while
the city pays 75 percent.

Meanwhile, the remaining 1,700 retirees are in conventional active health plans,
such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield Blue Choice, Fallon Select and Fallon Direct.
Under those plans, the city picks up the tab for 87 percent of the premiums for
the Blue Cross plan it offers and 90 percent of the premiums for the plans
provided by Fallon.

"We have made our goal clear - we must create a financially healthy employee
insurance system going forward - an insurance system that is fair, equitable and
promises long-term stability for Worcester retirees, active employees and
Worcester taxpayers," Mr. O'Brien said.

"The alternative to doing nothing to tame this financial problem is further
erosion of city services, lower classroom sizes, fewer public safety personnel,
deterioration of city buildings, parks and the elimination of street and
sidewalk improvements," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily Record of Rochester (Rochester, NY)

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday

New definition for cash medical support in New York

BYLINE: Elizabeth Stull

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 846  words


A new state law aims to ensure children of low-income parents receive health
insurance, and brings the state into compliance with federal rules regarding
medical support.

New York State Deputy Chief Magistrate John Aman, of Erie County Family Court,
said the bill marks a significant change in child support determinations.

"It takes out the discretion and the guesswork," out of determining when
healthcare is affordable, Aman said. "With the rising cost of healthcare, this
is all the more important. "

Susan E. Antos, a senior attorney at the non-profit Empire Justice Center, said
the law could enable more low-income families to access public healthcare.

"We think it's going to have a very significant impact on children's health for
low-income families," Antos said.

By creating a uniform, statewide standard for when private health insurance for
children is affordable and available, parents with unreasonably high co-pays or
deductibles might become eligible to enroll their children in a more affordable
public health option such as Child Health Plus, Antos said.

Although children typically are covered by private health insurance through a
parent's provider, a court may order cash medical support if private insurance
is not reasonably accessible, at a reasonable cost.

The federal Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 and its regulations require states to
define "cash medical support" in order to be reimbursed for public health
insurance programs. 45 CFR 302.56; 303.31

The new law provides specific guidelines for courts to determine the cost and
accessibility of private health insurance. If it is not available and health
coverage is obtained through Child Health Plus or Medicaid, the law provides
guidelines for parental reimbursement to the Department of Health for the cost
of these programs.

For first time, the law also sets standards for establishing liability for costs
associated with childbirth, Antos said. That is significant because previously,
particularly in Western New York, courts often assessed the full cost of
prenatal and birthing expenses on the non-custodial parent, Aman said.

"Oftentimes a non-custodial dad was saddled with the entire cost of the
birthing, which could easily be between $6,000 to $10,000," Antos said. "A lot
of low-income moms were not seeking pre-natal care because they didn't want the
father of the child to get sued" by the state for Medicaid reimbursements.

Until now, New York's Family Court Act §416 and Domestic Relations Law §240
required health insurance to be provided in child support orders if available.
But the statutes provided no specific guidance for determining when it was
available.

Under the new law, the cost of health insurance is defined as the difference
between a self-only plan and extending benefits to children.

The new Family Court Act §416(d) and DRL 240(1)(b) paragraph 3, state the cost
is to be considered reasonable if the premium and deductible do not exceed 5
percent of the combined parental income.

Health insurance costs will not be considered reasonable if one parent's share
would reduce his or her income below the self-support reserve, defined as 135
percent of the poverty level for a household of one. The reserve is adjusted
annually on April 1, and currently is $14,620.

The court may find an exception to the affordability guidelines, based on the
parents' resources, for instance.

There is a rebuttable presumption that health insurance benefits are accessible
when the child lives in the plan's coverage area or within 30 minutes or miles
from the services covered.

As under the current laws, the non-custodial parent still must pay his or her
share of a child's reasonable, unreimbursed health care expenses. But the total
cash medical payment may not reduce that parent's income below the self-support
reserve.

"We never had that protection before," Antos said.

The cost of providing private health insurance is pro-rated between the parties,
proportionate to each parent's share of the combined parental income. If the
non-custodial parent provides the benefits, that parent's share of the cost is
deducted from his or her basic child support obligation. If the custodial parent
provides benefits, the non-custodial parent's share of the cost is added to
child support payments.

As under current law, if private health insurance benefits are not available,
the custodial parent is ordered to apply for Medicaid or Child Health Plus.

Specific rules apply for calculating parental contributions to each type of
public health insurance. In each case, the court defines the non-custodial
parent's monthly medical support payment, which may not exceed 5 percent of his
or her gross income or the difference between his or her income and the
self-support reserve, whichever is less.

Requiring the non-custodial parent to contribute payments toward the public
healthcare program helps lift the burden from the taxpayers, Aman said.

The new law becomes effective Oct. 9 and applies to any proceeding to establish
or modify child support, including medical support, commenced on or after that
date.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Government activity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           December 4, 2014 Thursday

Cost-U-Less Insurance expands product offerings through sister company

SECTION: ACCIDENT & HEALTHCARE; Business Expansions

LENGTH: 246 words



HIGHLIGHT: Cost-U-Less Insurance, part of Confie Seguros, the largest,
privately-held insurance broker in the US and one of the top 20 global insurance
brokers in the world, announced a new service offering from its sister company,
Freeway Insurance.


In step with the Affordable Care Act (ACA), commonly referred to as Obamacare
health insurance, the company is expanding its product offerings to include
health insurance. The new offering will help individuals and families comply
with the ACA, which requires most Americans to have health insurance or pay a
penalty for not having health insurance.



The goal is to facilitate the enrollment process and increase access to
bilingual enrollment experts and health educators throughout California.
Focusing on the Hispanic community, residents will be able to interact with
licensed bilingual agents at 30 Freeway Insurance locations throughout the
state, where they will receive one-on-one assistance and free health insurance
quotes.

"As a long-standing community member, we are proud to offer our services free of
charge to all consumers. Many consumers find the choice between the types of
health insurance confusing, and don't understand the differences between an HMO
and a PPO, or how to qualify for subsidized no-cost or low-cost health insurance
," said Valeria Rico, Chief Executive Officer of Confie Seguros.

Cost-U-Less has been providing inexpensive car insurance for California drivers
since 1989 and is part of the Confie Seguros family of companies. With 540
offices throughout the United States, Confie Seguros is the largest,
privately-held insurance broker in the United States and one of the top 20
global insurance brokers in the world, according to A.M. Best.

LOAD-DATE: December 05, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 4, 2001, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Employers play key role

BYLINE: Donald A. Young

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 456 words

Today's debate: Paying for health care

Opposing view: Instead of changing health-insurance system, improve it.

You read it in the newspapers and see it on television: America's health care
costs are going up, resulting in increased premiums for health insurance. But
despite the rising costs, the employment-based health-insurance system continues
to serve millions of Americans very well. Increasing costs are not an intrinsic
part of the employment-based system.


An important feature of the employment-based health-insurance system is that
many employers are sophisticated purchasers of health care.

Employers played a major role in stemming the rapid rise in health care costs in
the late 1980s. They've also played a major role in ensuring the quality of
health care purchased on behalf of their employees.

Employment-based coverage has been steadily rising, from 64.5% of the
non-elderly in 1994 to 66.7% in 1999.

Nevertheless, health care costs are rising. The three main factors that make
premiums rise are the cost of covering benefits mandated by states,
prescription-drug costs and new technology.

State benefit mandates occur when a state passes a law that requires an employer
to purchase health-insurance coverage for a specific health condition or a
specific type of treatment. A 1999 study by Gail Jensen and Michael Morrisey
showed that the number of state mandates has increased 25-fold during the past 2
decades.

These mandates have raised premiums by up to 13%. Jensen and Morrisey found that
18% of small businesses without health coverage would purchase it in the absence
of state mandates.

Spending on prescription drugs has been rising at alarming rates as well.
Prescription-drug-expenditure growth now outpaces all other major categories of
health expenses.

New medical technologies have tremendous potential, but that potential comes
with a cost. A study by Project HOPE's Center for Health Affairs projected that
the cost of medical technology may account for up to a third of increased U.S.
health care spending during the next 5 years.

The employment-based health-insurance system has helped control health care
costs, helped improve the quality of care and maximized health benefits for a
wide range of Americans.

The employment-based health-insurance system has inherent advantages, such as
its ability to spread the costs of care across a broad range of individuals.
Efforts to cover more Americans should supplement and strengthen the current
employment-based system, not replace it.

Donald A. Young, M.D., is interim president of the Health Insurance Association
of America, a trade group for large health-insurance companies.

LOAD-DATE: September 04, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2001 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              172 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             April 13, 1992 Monday

COSTS MAY PRICE OUT MEDICARE

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: SEALEY S

LENGTH: 621 words


Costs may price out Medicare By STEPHEN SEALEY in Canberra AUSTRALIA'S health
system faced collapse because of the high cost of health care for the elderly,
the health insurance industry warned yesterday. The Australian Health Insurance
Association said people should be encouraged to save for their health needs in
retirement. It said the cost to working people of funding health care for the
elderly could double in the next 40 years. The AHIA estimated the 1991 cost of
providing health care to people older than 65 was $2.5 billion. That was
expected to increase to $6.7 billion during the next 40 years. The AHIA said the
Medicare system was unsustainable and needed urgent reform to salvage the health
system. It said the quality of health care would deteriorate and taxes would
have to be increased if Medicare was not reformed. The group's warning comes on
the eve of a key meeting of federal and state Health Ministers in Sydney this
week. The AHIA chief executive, Mr Russell Schneider, said Australia faced
""chaos in health care within 10 years". He said health insurance was under the
same pressure which had forced Australians to start saving more for their
retirement. ""When the age pension became unaffordable in the long term, the
Government found new ways of encouraging superannuation," Mr Schneider said. ""
Health insurance is under exactly the same pressures. ""If we want to have a
system that works into the future then we must encourage people to save during
their working lives for their health needs in retirement." The current system
was an unsustainable burden on the workforce and would lead to a fall in the
quality of health care, he said. The Medicare system would lead to longer public
hospital queues and more expensive health insurance, he said. The AHIA called
for the introduction of a tax rebate to partially offset the costs of private
health insurance. It wants the Government to open up medical insurance to
competition and allow a greater share of health insurance to be met by the
private sector. Mr Schneider said 10 percent of people with private health
insurance were older than 65 but they accounted for 40 percent of the costs. He
said one way of changing the system would be for superannuation funds to put
away part of the funds for future health care costs. The Australian Hospital
Association said yesterday the Government was likely to ignore major problems in
the hospital Medicare system and offer only ""band-aid" solutions. It called for
an increase in health insurance because of the number of people dropping out of
private schemes. The AHA national director, Mr Peter Baulderstone, said the
Health Minister, Mr Howe, would try to ""fob off" the states at the three-day
meeting of state and territory Health Ministers which starts in Sydney today.
""If we don't get some positive sign from the Health Ministers' conference that
Mr Howe is going to implement some meaningful structural change to hospital
Medicare, then we will take further action," he said. At the three-day meeting
the state and territory Health Ministers will sit down to hammer out a new
health care funding agreement with the Federal Government. A spokeswoman for the
Victorian Health Minister, Ms Lyster, said increased federal funding was the
most important item on the agenda. Federal Government sources warned that the
Commonwealth believed all the states and territories had the capacity to give
their hospitals more money from its own resources. They said only the framework
for the new five-year agreement for health and aged care funding would be
discussed at the meeting. Funding details would not be discussed. The new
agreement has to be in place by July next year.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1992 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              173 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             August 8, 2005 Monday
                                  ALL EDITION

NATIONAL HEALTH CARE WOULD SAVE JOBS

BYLINE: Dave Zweifel

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PLAIN TALK; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 448 words


The news that Toyota is locating its next North American auto plant in Canada
rather than in the United States shouldn't have come as such a shock to American
bigwigs.

Anyone who has been paying even a teeny bit of attention to the problems
plaguing American auto companies knows that their No. 1 financial problem is the
cost of health insurance. There's even concern that General Motors will find
itself filing for bankruptcy if it can't get its UAW workers to pick up a larger
share of health insurance costs.

That's a problem that has beset more and more American businesses in recent
years as the cost of health care far outstrips inflation and the ability of
companies to pass those costs to consumers.

So, if you're Toyota, why wouldn't you spurn generous offers from U.S. cities
and locate in Canada, where the government provides everyone with health
insurance?

Even General Motors, which operates several plants in Canada, has been lobbying
the Canadians not to change their universal health plan, an idea that surfaces
in Canadian politics from time to time. GM and other corporations like it just
the way it is, thank you.

Obviously, Canadian health insurance isn't free to the companies. They pay
higher taxes to help foot the overall bill. Nevertheless, their total costs are
far lower than what they pay for health insurance plans in the United States,
where the cost of administration to pay for the private interests in our
convoluted system reach more than 20 percent of the total bill. That money alone
could help kick-start national health insurance in our own country.

Paul Krugman, the New York Times columnist, pointed out the other day that the
result of all this is to give Canada more jobs in industries like auto
companies, which in the United States pay health benefits to workers, and fewer
jobs in industries that don't provide those benefits. In the United States the
effect is just the opposite: fewer jobs with benefits, more jobs without because
the incentive to go out of the country isn't as great for those who don't
provide health benefits.

Meanwhile, as the number of uninsured workers increases in the United States,
the American taxpayer is forced to pick up more and more of the tab for the
poorest of those uninsured through programs like Medicaid. It's a vicious
circle.

* Someday we're going to face the facts. The argument over a national health
program is no longer whether it amounts to "socialized" medicine in the
capitalist United States. It's now whether our refusal to enact a national
system -- Medicare, for example, for all -- is going to wind up devastating our
economy.

Dave Zweifel is editor of The Capital Times. E-mail: dzweifel@madison.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Madison Newspapers, Inc.


                              174 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Post-Star (Glens Falls, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday

Hadley-Luzerne considers jumping ship on insurance consortium

BYLINE: Omar Ricardo Aquije, The Post-Star, Glens Falls, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 686 words


Feb. 10--At Hadley-Luzerne, health insurance is estimated to cost an extra
$400,000 next year, which has the school district searching for a cheaper
alternative.

The increase raises the expense by 12 percent, and puts pressure on the
district, because the cost of pensions is also going up.

"One of the tremendous increases that all our school districts experience are
based on health insurance premium cost," said Superintendent Paul Berry.

Berry said the district is working with health insurance providers to determine
if Hadley-Luzerne can get a better deal than it does now.

The school district obtains its health insurance through a consortium made up of
30 area school districts. Area superintendents say they get a better deal
through the consortium because they have more buying power as one large group.

Still, the cost for each district remains high. Every district in the consortium
pays the same percentage into the consortium.

For 2012-13, the cost of health insurance increased 12 percent. At the moment,
districts are budgeting for another 12 percent increase for next year, and the
cost could be higher in the future, because health insurance providers will be
taxed under the new federal health care law known commonly as Obamacare, and
that expense will be passed on to the districts.

If Hadley-Luzerne finds cheaper health insurance, the district still has hurdles
to clear.

For instance, a school district has until Jan. 1 of each year to inform the
consortium it's leaving. Hadley-Luzerne did not meet that deadline for 2013
because it needed months to develop a history of its medical expenses, which has
to be shared with prospective health insurance providers.

Therefore, assuming the district were to leave the consortium, it would file a
notice by Jan. 1, 2014.

"It's a process that requires two years to complete," Berry said of leaving the
consortium.

Another hurdle is changing health insurance requires Hadley-Luzerne to reach new
agreements with its unions.

Berry, a first-year superintendent, said looking for new health insurance plans
and reviewing the district's history of medical claims has been an interesting
research project.

In recent years, Hadley-Luzerne has searched for different ways to save money.
The district is sharing a cafeteria manager with Lake George and a business
administrator with Galway.

The district is also in talks with Corinth about sharing academic programs.

Berry said the district may conclude the best deal is with the consortium.

"What we may find is that staying in the consortium is the best option, but it
does not soften the blow of a one-year increase in premiums," he said.

Despite the increase in health insurance, area school leaders say the benefits
of the consortium have been seen over a period of years.

Some area school districts have looked for cheaper health insurance, but found
the savings were greater with the consortium.

"There'd be no way that if we went on our own, we'd be able to match the health
insurance that we have and come in at the cost that we have (through the
consortium)," said Thomas Abraham, Hartford school superintendent.

Paul Jenkins, superintendent of Glens Falls schools, said he looked last year
for cheaper health insurance and found the best price was with the consortium.

"Part of the reason for that is that our district, like most districts, has
language in the contract that says if we add something, it has to be equal to or
better," Jenkins said.

Hadley-Luzerne is also trying to sway its employees and retirees to leave the
Matrix health insurance plan for the Preferred Provider Option (PPO) plan, which
is the cheaper of the two.

This requires showing members a side-by-side comparison of the two plans. Lake
George is also trying to move its employees and retirees away from the Matrix.

Some local school districts have stopped offering the Matrix, while others kept
it but require employees on the Matrix to pay the difference between the cost of
that plan and the PPO.

___ (c)2013 The Post Star (Glens Falls, N.Y.) Visit The Post Star (Glens Falls,
N.Y.) at www.poststar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130210-GN-Hadley-Luzerne-considers-jumping-ship-on-insurance-consortium-201302
10

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GN


                          Copyright 2013 The Post-Star


                              175 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                February 1, 2009

Health insurance levy: for and against

SECTION: NEWS FEATURES

LENGTH: 1559 words


An additional tax credit will be given in respect of people over 50. Insurers
will charge a higher premium in respect of people aged over 50 that equals this
additional tax credit, so that adults will pay the same premium net of all
reliefs, irrespective of age.

The government believes insurers will receive premiums that better reflect the
higher cost of insuring older people. The community rating levy and tax credits,
like the existing tax relief at source of 20 per cent premium, will be
administered by health insurance companies.

The measures are designed to be Exchequer neutral in their overall effect. Here,
experts from the Health Insurance Authority and the three main health insurers
give arguments for and against the levy.

FOR

Liam Sloyan, chief executive, Health Insurance Authority

The age-related tax relief and health insurance levy will benefit health
insurance consumers by supporting the effective operation of the community-rated
market.

In a community-rated market, health insurance is provided at the same cost to
all individuals regardless of age or health status.

However, the cost of claims is far higher for older people than it is for
younger people. In fact, on average, health insurance claim costs for people in
their 70s are seven times the costs for people under 40. If the higher costs of
insuring older people are not shared fairly, then insuring older people will
result in losses for insurers.

There would then be the following consequences. First, insurers would have a
strong disincentive against insuring older people. There would be an incentive
to design products that would be less attractive to older people and to charge
more for products that are attractive to older people.

Insurers could also target their marketing in such a way that younger people are
predominantly informed of the better value products.

The second difficulty is that insurers which would become most profitable and
thrive in such a market would not necessarily be the most efficient or those who
produce the best products; instead, they will be the ones who attract the
youngest clients.

Every country in the world that has community rating either has or is
introducing a risk equalisation scheme, or some other system to share the costs
of insuring older people throughout the market. Ireland is no different. If
Ireland wishes to have a community rated health insurance system where everybody
pays the same for their health insurance, some means have to be introduced to
address the higher costs involved in insuring older people.

Ultimately, a comprehensive risk equalisation scheme is required, but this will
take some time to implement. The measures announced by the government are
necessary to support community rating in the interim.

Jimmy Tolan, chief executive, VHI

The set of measures introduced by the Minister for Health and Children are
designed to protect community rating and ensure that older members of society
can continue to access health insurance on the same terms as younger people, as
they have for the last 50 years.

Following the Supreme Court decision, the market needed a mechanism to support
older customers. Without such a measure, the market would become risk rated ie
younger people would pay less and older people would pay substantially more.

On top of the existing tax relief at source of 20 per cent, there will be
additional tax relief for health insurance starting for people aged 50 and over,
and increasing for higher age groups. These are as follows:

&50-59:  200

&60-69:  500

&70-79:  950

&80+:  1,175

This additional tax relief will be funded through the levy which is to be
charged on all private health insurance companies. This is referred to as a
community rating levy, and the purpose is to fund the additional tax relief at
source. In any community rated market, you need a mechanism to support older
customers. The levy doesn't favour any one company over the other. The tax
reliefs introduced are given to the individual - not the company. If a person
switches health insurer, the tax relief moves with them. In fact, it should
encourage competition right across the market.

Newer entrants to the market target the young and healthy. Without intervention,
older people and the medically more vulnerable end up paying more because
younger people will pay less. Age is by far the single largest determinant of
insurer's average medical costs. VHI Healthcare has 90 per cent of insured
customers over the age of 60. The level of average medical costs per customers
in the Irish market is radically different due to age profiles.

VHI Healthcare paid out an average of  745 for each customer for medical care in
2008.This is significantly higher than our competitors, which we estimate spend
between  350 and  450. The average paid out for medical care increases as
customers get older, and is more than  3,000 for customers over the age of 80.

AGAINST

Jim Dowdall, managing director, Hibernian Aviva Health

It is our view that the government levy on adults and children with private
healthcare is anti-consumer, anticompetitive and unnecessary.

Hibernian Aviva Health has established a website at www.axethelevy.com, which
explains its stance and encourages consumers to sign the online petition
requesting that the government reverse its decision.

The levy was announced without industry or consumer consultation and leaves
Ireland's two million health insurance consumers facing unnecessary increases in
the cost of their health insurance.

This levy will make private health insurance unaffordable for many consumers and
companies. The vast majority of the levy collected will be paid to the VHI,
which last year made profits of  112million. Since the levy was first announced,
we have met with representatives of the Department of Health and Children to
present our views on why this levy is not the solution to protect community
rating.

This levy significantly reinforces the VHI's market dominance and prevents real
competition. Consumers are ultimately paying the price of higher health
insurance costs in a monopolised, inconsistently regulated market.

Hibernian Aviva Health will not pass on the levy disguised as an unwarranted
increase in prices. We have not increased the cost of our policies this year
and, although forced to collect the levy from policyholders at their next
renewal dates from January 18, 2009, we will clearly indicate to customers the
levy charge that must be applied and will hold all payments collected for this
levy in a ring-fenced fund.

I f Hibernian Aviva Health's challenge is successful, we promise to refund our
customers from whom the levy has been collected.

The government claims the levy, along with increased tax relief for older
consumers, was necessary to protect community rating and the affordability of
health insurance for all, but this simply isn't the case. There is no benefit to
older consumers, or any group of consumers in this levy.

In our opinion, this levy is another example of a monopoly protecting quick fix
by the Department of Health. It has been introduced as a three-year solution,
but what the industry and consumers need is a longer-term overhaul of private
health insurance, creating a system that supports a fair deal for consumers and
stakeholders in the health insurance market.

We are appealing to consumers to help us to achieve our goal and are asking all
generations to join together in opposition to this stealth tax on private health
insurance.

Colin Morgan, general manager, Quinn-Healthcare

Quinn-Healthcare i s strongly opposed to the introduction of the levy on private
health insurance. This measure is anti-competitive and appears to be designed to
reinforce the dominant position of the state-owned VHI. It will result in VHI's
competitors paying in excess of  40 million per year and, while it appears that
some of this is going to the government, the VHI will benefit the most from
this.

In essence, these new measures represent a stealth tax on health insurance
consumers, resulting in significant increases in the cost of health insurance.
Our main concern relates to the  160 levy per member.

This levy is due per member irrespective of the level of cover a member has (ie
a 50 per cent levy on lower plans and only 8 per cent on high level plans). This
ultimately means that less well-off people on lower plans are subsidising those
better off who can afford premium plans. This is totally unfair.

The levy represents a significant cost to the VHI's competitors, who have been
forced to increase prices to cover this additional cost. However, the VHI, which
gains significant benefit from the levy, increased prices on their core products
by up to 30 per cent. This is a clear illustration that government intervention
has damaged competition.

The government and VHI claim that this scheme is required to protect community
rating and intergenerational solidarity. This is simply not true. The health
insurance market in Ireland does not need VHI to be compensated to maintain
community rating. Despite no compensation ever being paid to the VHI, it has
remained profitable since competition entered the market, and community rating
was never under threat.

However, we remain committed to the health insurance market for the long-term
and in offering consumers a real alternative to the VHI, with better value and
more innovative products.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             April 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS GO UP FASTER THAN WAGES, NEW ANALYSIS CONCLUDES

BYLINE: By SARAH KROUSE Palm Beach Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Premiums for Americans who get health insurance from their private-sector jobs
are increasing 10 times faster than their incomes, according to a new report
based on government data.

"There is a clear connection between the rising cost of health care and the
increasing number of uninsured Americans. As costs continue to go up, fewer
people can pay their portion of the premium, and fewer employers are able to
offer insurance benefits," said Dr. Risa Lavizzo-Mourey, CEO of the Robert Wood
Johnson Foundation.

Fewer private sector businesses are offering coverage, and fewer Americans have
private health insurance coverage as a result of rising costs, according to the
analysis researched by the University of Minnesota the foundation being released
today by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and researched by the University of
Minnesota.

Public opinion polls show health-care reform is a top priority for Americans,
Lavizzo-Mourey added. According to the latest census, 47 million Americans do
not have any health insurance.

In Florida, 63.1 percent of residents had private health insurance in 2005, a
4.4 percent decrease from 2001.

The average family premium is $10,852, up 29 percent from 2001, while the median
income is $39,849, an increase of 1.8 percent from 2001.

Employees enrolled in family coverage at private-sector companies that offer
health insurance pay 32.2 percent of the total premiums, a 4.3 percent increase
from 2001.

Nationally, the average cost of family coverage has increased by almost $2,500 -
from $8,281 in 2001 to $10,728 in 2005.

The report says this contributes to the 2.4 million-person decline in Americans
with private health insurance from 2001 to 2005.

"This study makes plain what every working parent knows - that providing
insurance coverage takes a bigger bite from the family budget every year,"
Lavizzo-Mourey said.

- skrouse@coxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Ran all editions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                     September 21, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Health Insurance Snapshot: eHealth Publishes Data on Average Costs, Common
Qualifying Life Events for Month of August

LENGTH: 455  words


Sept. 21 -- Today eHealth, Inc. (NASDAQ: EHTH - eHealth.com), the nation's first
and largest private online health insurance marketplace, published an updated
snapshot of the individually-purchased health insurance market outside of the
nationwide open enrollment period. Highlights include average premiums and
deductibles as well as the most common qualifying life events cited by consumers
allowing them to purchase coverage outside of open enrollment.

Information published by eHealth today reflects trends and costs among consumers
shopping at eHealth.com in the month of August 2015. It does not reflect average
costs among shoppers utilizing government subsidies to help pay for premiums.

How Much Were Consumers Paying for Health Insurance On Average in August 20151?

Disclaimer: The table has been omitted (The document can be viewed at
http://news.ehealthinsurance.com/news/health-insurance
-snapshot:-ehealth-publishes-data-on-average-costs
-and-common-qualifying-life-events-for-the-month-of-august-2015).

By comparison, the average monthly premiums in August 2014 were $264 for
individuals and $695 for families. Average deductibles in August 2014 were
$3,689 for individuals and $6.939 for families2. For more information on average
health insurance costs, refer to eHealth's Price Index.

What Kinds of Plans Are Consumers Selecting?

In the month of August 2015, eHealth shoppers selected plans in specific
categories as shown3:

Disclaimer: The table has been omitted (The document can be viewed at
http://news.ehealthinsurance.com/news/health-insurance
-snapshot:-ehealth-publishes-data-on-average-costs
-and-common-qualifying-life-events-for-the-month-of-august-2015).

Qualifying Life Events: Why Are Consumers Shopping for New Coverage?

Outside of open enrollment, eHealth shoppers have been asked to indicate whether
or not they have experienced a qualifying life event making them eligible to
enroll in major medical coverage. In the month of August 2015, eHealth customers
claimed qualifying life events as shown4:

Disclaimer: The table has been omitted (The document can be viewed at
http://news.ehealthinsurance.com/news/health-insurance
-snapshot:-ehealth-publishes-data-on-average-costs
-and-common-qualifying-life-events-for-the-month-of-august-2015).

Of those who selected "other," many indicated life changes that may have been
legitimate qualifying events while others reported personal challenges or life
changes which did not always meet the law's criteria for qualifying events.

This document has footnotes and they may be found at:
(http://news.ehealthinsurance.com/news/health-insurance
-snapshot:-ehealth-publishes-data-on-average-costs
-and-common-qualifying-life-events-for-the-month-of-august-2015).

Source: eHealth

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             August 21, 2017 Monday

Trump's Obamacare recklessness will wreak havoc

LENGTH: 696 words


It's bad enough that President Donald Trump has pledged to allow the Affordable
Care Act to, as he puts it, " implode." But Trump has pledged to do more -- to
intentionally interfere with the workings of the 2010 health insurance law his
administration is charged with enforcing to, as he sees it, accelerate the
implosion.


And he won't make his intentions clear, leaving health insurers in a state of
uncertainty at a time when they have to finalize rates for next year's insurance
offerings.


There is at least one certainty, though: If Trump follows through with one of
his pledges to interfere with the Affordable Care Act's workings, he would
unnecessarily turn the individual health insurance market on its head.


A new report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released last week
shows how.


What Trump has in mind is stopping monthly payments the federal government makes
to health insurers known as cost-sharing reduction payments. Those payments
reimburse health insurance companies for minimizing out-of-pocket costs, such as
copayments and deductibles, for their lowest-income customers who purchase
insurance through the health insurance marketplaces the Affordable Care Act
created.


Those marketplaces serve the individual health insurance market -- which is
where people buy insurance when they don't receive it through work or through
another government program. Most people who purchase insurance through the
marketplace qualify for tax credits that reduce the cost of their monthly
premiums. The lowest-income consumers who buy marketplace insurance receive help
from both those tax credits and the cost-sharing reduction payments.


But if the Trump administration cuts off the cost-sharing reduction payments,
health insurance companies would have to make up for the loss. They would do
that, the Congressional Budget Office concluded, by raising health insurance
premiums. In some cases, the budget office projects, health insurers would
withdraw entirely from the insurance marketplaces covering some regions.


Premiums on the mid-grade silver plans offered through the health insurance
marketplaces would be 20 percent higher next year than they would be otherwise,
it projected, and 25 percent higher in 2020 than they would be otherwise.


The portion of the U.S. population living in an area with no insurers serving
the individual market would rise to 5 percent next year, up from the 0.5 percent
it would be otherwise. That's a 900 percent increase.


The budget office points out that the federal government would largely be on the
hook for health insurance premium increases the Trump administration would bring
on by stopping the cost-sharing reduction payments. Budget deficits would be
$194 billion higher over the next decade than they would be otherwise. That's
because most people buying insurance in the individual market qualify for tax
credits to defray the cost of their monthly insurance premiums. The amount spent
on those tax credits would grow in response to the premium spikes.


The budget office also projects that 1 million more people would lack insurance
next year than if the Trump administration simply allowed cost-sharing reduction
payments to continue.


Maine's insurance commissioner recently signed off on double-digit increases for
the plans offered through the state's individual insurance marketplace. This is
at least partially attributable to general uncertainty surrounding the
Affordable Care Act's fate. If Trump ends cost-sharing reduction payments, the
increases will be even steeper.


The administration has been making the cost-sharing reduction payments month by
month since it took office in January. On Wednesday, the Los Angeles Times
reported that the administration had decided to make another month's worth of
those payments.


But the president won't commit to continuing those payments. The lack of
long-term certainty, which the Trump administration could eliminate simply by
committing to enforce the Affordable Care Act as written, is what is roiling the
health insurance market.


Markets need regulatory certainty in order to stabilize. When it comes to health
insurance, Trump is providing the exact opposite.


Â

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Bangor Daily News


                              179 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday

Aviva chief blames Minister for premiums;
Health Cover

LENGTH: 308 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sean Egan, Chief Executive of health insurer, Aviva, today laid some
of the blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the
costing of private beds in public hospitals.


Sean Egan, Chief Executive of health insurer, Aviva, today laid some of the
blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the costing
of private beds in public hospitals.

Speaking today at the National Healthcare Conference, he said the current
approach - where the Minister sets bed charges - is a contributory factor to
rising health insurance premiums.

The Aviva Chief Executive has proposed that the current system should be
replaced by one where health insurers and hospitals directly negotiate the cost
of beds.

Mr Egan said direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals would lead to
cost savings which in turn could be passed onto health insurance customers,
adding that the proposal was in line with the Minister's own Universal Health
Insurance policy. "We need reform fast to make private health insurance more
affordable. Without reform that can improve affordability, we will not have the
well-functioning and competitive health insurance market necessary to fund our
health service and to make the introduction of Universal Health Insurance
possible. Instead of remaining wedded to old measures which are hampering
affordability, we should quickly move to introduce new measures that can bring
costs down. The recent proposal to re-designate private beds in public hospitals
is an old style measure which will drive up bed charges for private patients and
further undermine the affordability of private health insurance. Aviva Health
believes we should now move to allow private insurers negotiate bed charges with
each individual hospital. This would represent a move away from the old system
where the Minister applies a universal bed charge applicable to all public
hospitals. Direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals enhance the
prospects of reducing health costs and containing premiums," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday

Aviva chief blames Minister for premiums;
Health Cover

LENGTH: 308 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sean Egan, Chief Executive of health insurer, Aviva, today laid some
of the blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the
costing of private beds in public hospitals.


Sean Egan, Chief Executive of health insurer, Aviva, today laid some of the
blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the costing
of private beds in public hospitals.

Speaking today at the National Healthcare Conference, he said the current
approach - where the Minister sets bed charges - is a contributory factor to
rising health insurance premiums.

The Aviva Chief Executive has proposed that the current system should be
replaced by one where health insurers and hospitals directly negotiate the cost
of beds.

Mr Egan said direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals would lead to
cost savings which in turn could be passed onto health insurance customers,
adding that the proposal was in line with the Minister's own Universal Health
Insurance policy. "We need reform fast to make private health insurance more
affordable. Without reform that can improve affordability, we will not have the
well-functioning and competitive health insurance market necessary to fund our
health service and to make the introduction of Universal Health Insurance
possible. Instead of remaining wedded to old measures which are hampering
affordability, we should quickly move to introduce new measures that can bring
costs down. The recent proposal to re-designate private beds in public hospitals
is an old style measure which will drive up bed charges for private patients and
further undermine the affordability of private health insurance. Aviva Health
believes we should now move to allow private insurers negotiate bed charges with
each individual hospital. This would represent a move away from the old system
where the Minister applies a universal bed charge applicable to all public
hospitals. Direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals enhance the
prospects of reducing health costs and containing premiums," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday

Aviva chief blames Minister for premiums;
Health Cover

LENGTH: 308 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sean Egan, Chief Executive of health insurer, Aviva, today laid some
of the blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the
costing of private beds in public hospitals.


Sean Egan, Chief Executive of health insurer, Aviva, today laid some of the
blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the costing
of private beds in public hospitals.

Speaking today at the National Healthcare Conference, he said the current
approach - where the Minister sets bed charges - is a contributory factor to
rising health insurance premiums.

The Aviva Chief Executive has proposed that the current system should be
replaced by one where health insurers and hospitals directly negotiate the cost
of beds.

Mr Egan said direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals would lead to
cost savings which in turn could be passed onto health insurance customers,
adding that the proposal was in line with the Minister's own Universal Health
Insurance policy. "We need reform fast to make private health insurance more
affordable. Without reform that can improve affordability, we will not have the
well-functioning and competitive health insurance market necessary to fund our
health service and to make the introduction of Universal Health Insurance
possible. Instead of remaining wedded to old measures which are hampering
affordability, we should quickly move to introduce new measures that can bring
costs down. The recent proposal to re-designate private beds in public hospitals
is an old style measure which will drive up bed charges for private patients and
further undermine the affordability of private health insurance. Aviva Health
believes we should now move to allow private insurers negotiate bed charges with
each individual hospital. This would represent a move away from the old system
where the Minister applies a universal bed charge applicable to all public
hospitals. Direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals enhance the
prospects of reducing health costs and containing premiums," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday

Aviva chief blames Minister for premiums;
Health Cover

LENGTH: 308 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sean Egan, Chief Executive of health insurer, Aviva, today laid some
of the blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the
costing of private beds in public hospitals.


Sean Egan, Chief Executive of health insurer, Aviva, today laid some of the
blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the costing
of private beds in public hospitals.

Speaking today at the National Healthcare Conference, he said the current
approach - where the Minister sets bed charges - is a contributory factor to
rising health insurance premiums.

The Aviva Chief Executive has proposed that the current system should be
replaced by one where health insurers and hospitals directly negotiate the cost
of beds.

Mr Egan said direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals would lead to
cost savings which in turn could be passed onto health insurance customers,
adding that the proposal was in line with the Minister's own Universal Health
Insurance policy. "We need reform fast to make private health insurance more
affordable. Without reform that can improve affordability, we will not have the
well-functioning and competitive health insurance market necessary to fund our
health service and to make the introduction of Universal Health Insurance
possible. Instead of remaining wedded to old measures which are hampering
affordability, we should quickly move to introduce new measures that can bring
costs down. The recent proposal to re-designate private beds in public hospitals
is an old style measure which will drive up bed charges for private patients and
further undermine the affordability of private health insurance. Aviva Health
believes we should now move to allow private insurers negotiate bed charges with
each individual hospital. This would represent a move away from the old system
where the Minister applies a universal bed charge applicable to all public
hospitals. Direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals enhance the
prospects of reducing health costs and containing premiums," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Leadership (Abuja)

                            January 24, 2011 Monday

The Federal Government Must Hear This [opinion]

BYLINE: Okpashi Odama

LENGTH: 980  words


In view of the generally poor state of the nation's health services and the
excessive dependence and pressure on government health facilities, with the
dwindling funding of healthcare in the face of rising costs, the Federal
Government of Nigeria under the leadership of former President Olusegun Obasanjo
established the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS).

The scheme was designed to facilitate their financing of healthcare costs
through the pooling and judicious utilisation of financial risk protection and
cost-burden sharing for people, against the high cost of healthcare through
institution of prepaid mechanism, prior to their falling ill. This, of course,
is in addition to the provision of the regulatory oversight on Health
Maintenance Organisations (HMOs) and other players in the healthcare delivery
system.

The National Health Insurance Scheme established under Act 35 of 1999, by the
Federal Government of Nigeria is aimed at providing easy access to healthcare
for all Nigerians at an affordable cost through various prepayment systems,
besides providing a strong, dynamic and responsive National Health Insurance
Scheme that is totally committed to securing universal coverage and access to
adequate and affordable healthcare, in order to improve the health status of
Nigerians.

The idea for this at the time became more imperative especially given the fact
that health insurance is a social security system that guarantees the provision
of needed health services to persons on the payment of token contributions at
regular intervals.

In order to complement government's efforts at bringing healthcare facilities to
the doorstep of every Nigerian, as well as making most of the drugs available
and affordable, innovative Biotech USA Inc. has put in place various measures
and it's proposing to establish a drug manufacturing factory with emphasis on
scientifically-tested products.

Since providing healthcare requires the collective efforts of all, Dr. Simon
Agwale of the Innovative Biotech USA Inc., said the centre has undertaken the
treatment of Nigerians of various diseases with the use of the orthodox and
scientifically-tested natural products. According to the Nigerian-born American,
the establishment of the facility in Keffi, Nasarawa State, is in response and
acceptance of the federal and Nasarawa State governments through their open
integration of the sector into their health facilities.

In order to ensure that every Nigerian has access to good healthcare services,
the National Health Insurance Scheme has developed various programmes to cover
different segments of the society such as formal sector social health insurance
programme, urban self-employed social health insurance programme, rural
community social health insurance programme, children under-five social health
insurance programme, permanently disabled persons social health insurance
programme, prison inmates social health insurance programme, tertiary
institutions and voluntary participants social health insurance programme and
the armed forces, police and other uniformed services health insurance
programme.

The membership of the National Health Insurance Scheme consists of employees of
public and organised private sector employing 10 or more persons while
contributions are earnings-related. The employer pays 10 per cent, while the
employee pays 5 per cent, representing 15 per cent of the employee's basic
salary. However, the employer may decide to pay the entire contribution in
accordance with the existing laws.

Healthcare providers and the scheme shall provide the following benefit packages
to the contributors: out-patient care, including necessary consumables,
prescribed drugs, pharmaceutical care and diagnostic tests as contained in the
National Essential Drugs List and Diagnostic Test List; maternity care for up to
four live births from every insured contributor/couple in the formal sector
programme; preventive care, including immunisation, as it applies in the
national programme on immunisation, health education, family planning, antenatal
and post-natal care, consultation with specialists, such as physicians,
pediatricians, obstetricians, gynecologists, general surgeons, orthopedic
surgeons, dental surgeons, radiologists, psychiatrists, ophthalmologists,
physiotherapists, etc, and hospital care in a standard ward for a stay limited
to cumulative 15 days per year. Therefore, both the beneficiary and the employer
pay.

The primary provider shall pay for bed space for a total of 15 days cumulative
per year, eye examination and care (excluding the provision of spectacles and
contact lenses), a range of prostheses (limited to artificial limbs produced in
Nigeria) and preventive dental care and pain relief, including consultation,
dental heath education, amalgam filling and simply extraction.

Innovative Biotech Limited has been in the forefront of shaping the future
direction of vaccine development worldwide. Innovative in Nigeria, and in the
United States of America under the leadership of Dr. Agwale, a Nigerian-born
virologist/volcanologist has, in the area of vaccine, constructed from the
prevalent Nigerian strains which are relevant to Nigerians through its vision
for the development and investigation on HIV.

As the nation is on a quest for improved medical facilities and the fight
against the exodus of Nigerians seeking medical care across the shores of
Nigeria, the vision for the development and investigation of HIV vaccine, some
of which have been shown to be immunogenic and animal models is important.

His studies on molecular epidemiology of HIV in Nigeria led to the establishment
of sub-types of A/G recombinant and G as the most predominant subtype in
Nigeria, while the first case of drug resistant HIV I in Nigeria was reported by
the Nigeria virologist in USA.

Odama, a medical doctor, wrote in from Keffi, Nasarawa State

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 8, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Health insurance for all on horizon?

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN EDITORIAL AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 537 words


America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group representing almost 1,300 health
insurers, last week proposed a plan to reduce medical costs and use the savings
- $500 million over five years - to achieve universal coverage. That, as they
said, is a "bold target."

Unfortunately, the health insurers did not offer specific ways to reduce rising
medical costs that they projected at 6.6 percent a year. Instead, they proposed
a public-private panel be established by Congress to find ways to reduce rising
health care costs.

But the insurers are right to put a spotlight on the need to get a grip on those
rising costs and not just extend coverage to the uncovered.

One aspect of their proposal will generate controversy within the states - to
let insurers offer an "essential benefits" policy effective in all states at an
affordable price and not subject to individual state mandates for covering this
medical procedure or that test.

With lower medical costs and tighter policy requirements, they could provide
coverage for people with pre-existing conditions - if everyone is required to
purchase health insurance, with help from tax credits. Employers could still
offer health insurance, and the coverage of Medicaid and Children's Health
Insurance Programs would have to be extended, the insurers say.

The insurers are not acting out of a sudden burst of compassion; they know that
President-elect Barack Obama intends to make broadening health insurance
coverage a major priority, and a Democratic Congress is likely to take action of
some kind in 2009.

The insurers also know that, with a recession on, a growing number of Americans
are more worried about finding themselves unemployed and uninsured than they are
about the horrors of "socialized medicine."

And Americans who see their top leaders, whether in Congress or the Legislature,
arranging affordable health insurance for themselves - and their adult,
independent children - with taxpayer dollars have reason to ask why they can't
get it, too.

The question comes up in Austin as well as Washington.

Last week, a Democratic activist filed an ethics complaint against Texas House
Speaker Tom Craddick, a Republican, in part for carrying his 30-something
daughter, Christi Craddick, on his state health insurance. Christi Craddick, a
lawyer and not married, is paid $12,000 a month from campaign donations to help
handle her father's political operation.

The Craddicks aren't discussing her health insurance coverage, and the state's
Employee Retirement System cannot comment.

But a 1997 state law allows parents on state health insurance to cover any child
"who is unmarried, regardless of age." ERS says the policyholder pays the
premium for such a "child" and that no taxpayer money is involved.

Still, the fact that such coverage would be written into state law points to an
awareness by lawmakers that sometimes even adult children who are working may
not be able to get, or afford, health insurance on their own.

And that's the problem with too many of the one out of four Texans who don't
have health insurance - they can't get it or can't afford it. It looks like the
nation, including the insurers, are finally going to move beyond talking about
this national problem.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                               May 7, 2007 Monday
                              EAST/VALLEY EDITION

Teachers to pay more for health insurance;
Cost-of-living increase also negotiated in talks

BYLINE: Linda Bock, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: NORTHBRIDGE


Town employees contribute 10 percent and the town contributes 90 percent toward
health insurance premiums, but the School Committee and the Northbridge Teachers
Association reached a tentative agreement last week that would change that.

Both sides worked during negotiations to resolve significant financial issues,
according to Superintendent Paul K. Soojian, including coming to an agreement to
restructure the health insurance contribution rates. If the contract is
ratified, existing employees over a three-year period will increase their
contribution toward health insurance costs from 10 percent to 25 percent. All
new employees hired by the School District would pay 25 percent toward health
insurance.

"This is a significant and important agreement that the teachers willingly
undertook to help the town's present financial predicament," Mr. Soojian said in
a statement.

Additionally, a cost-of-living increase has been negotiated for each of the
three contract years: a 2 percent pay increase in the first year of the
contract, and a 3 percent pay increase in the second and third years of the
contract. Mr. Soojian said town officials anticipate the financial savings from
increased employee contributions to health insurance will far exceed the impact
of the cost-of-living increases.

Mr. Soojian said the town and teachers union will continue to meet in an effort
to resolve other issues, and both parties anticipate favorable ratification
votes.

Town representatives and the Northbridge Teachers Association met in November to
set the ground rules for negotiations to replace the teachers' contract, which
will expire June 30.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Alaska Journal of Commerce

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 23, 2009 Friday

Business owners struggle with insurance needs, costs

BYLINE: Margaret Bauman, Alaska Journal of Commerce, Anchorage

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 842 words


Oct. 23--Downtown Anchorage pub owner Daniel Zivanich is quick to acknowledge
that he pays more than $10,000 a month for health insurance for his 16
employees, and that's the way he thinks it should be.

"It's about as good a plan as you can get," said Zivanich, who owns F Street
Station and the Cabin Tavern in Anchorage's Muldoon area with business partner
Ed deFapio.

Why does he do it?

"I want to have good employees, and I want to keep the employees," said
Zivanich, whose workers include people who have been with him for 24 years. His
average employee has been with him eight to nine years, he said.

"If a business can't afford to take care of its employees, pay them a decent
wage (including health insurance), you don't have any business being an
employer," he said. "That said, I'm not justifying the cost going up. It's
ridiculous. We pay out close to $130,000 a year at F Street just for health
insurance."

The government should be looking into why health care is so expensive, he said.

Zivanich came to Alaska in 1961 and got his first job working at the Driftwood
Lounge, now the Woodshed, in Downtown Anchorage. In 1974, he opened F Street,
which has become popular with the business crowd looking for a light meal or
appetizers with their drinks.

Zivanich is trying to keep his overhead costs under control, but said he's
feeling the squeeze.

"Right now people have money here in Alaska, and jobs, but there is a limit to
how much you can raise prices to cover costs," he said. "In my case, the only
one being hurt (financially) is me."

Still he is determined to continue with his policy of paying the full cost of
medical and dental insurance for everyone who works for him.

Zivanich's employees are among a lucky few whose employers pay 100 percent of
the cost of medical and dental insurance plans.

Government agencies, and many major private-sector employers, expect their
employees to share the cost of health insurance.

Most private employers, including some who used to foot the entire bill, now
expect the workers to pay a portion of the cost of health insurance.

One of them is Perry Merkel, owner and operator of Cafe del Mundo, a coffee
roastery, with a popular Midtown Anchorage espresso shop.

Merkel started providing health care coverage, with a $250 deductible, some 15
years ago for his full-time employees. As health insurance costs increased,
Merkel moved to paying 75 percent of the cost, with workers paying 25 percent.

Come Nov. 1, he'll offer to pay only 50 percent of the premium costs for a
policy with a $2,500 deductible. He expects just four of his employees to buy
into the plan. The others are insured through the Veterans Administration or
their parents' policies, he said.

Merkel himself is insured under his wife's plan at the oil company where she
works.

"These costs for premiums are doing nothing but going up and up and up," he
said.

Still Merkel said he wants to continue offering health insurance to any
employees who want to buy into the deal.

Merkel said that controlling health care costs has become a major concern of all
small business owners and that he supports health care cost reforms.

"I'm not sure what the answer is, but there's got to be something," he said. "On
both sides of this issue there are going to be things too radical, too much. But
to do nothing, status quo, is not an option."

Other small business owners say they simply can't afford any insurance plan for
employees.

Sarah Braley, manager of Dress by Celeste, a Palmer clothing shop, said health
insurance for employees would be a goal if the shop were to grow.

Braley, a student at the University of Alaska, said that because she is a
student, she is still covered under a health insurance carried by her mother,
who owns the shop. The other employees are covered under their family's
policies, she said.

Denise Statz, owner of the gourmet cooking shop Nonessentials, in the same
Palmer shopping mall as Dress by Celeste, also said she can't afford a health
insurance plan for employees.

Statz, who has been in business for about 23 years, is covered under her
husband's insurance plan. She plans to pay out of her own pocket for thousands
of dollars in dental and medical care needed for one employee.

The employee, whom Statz described as a dedicated worker and mother of a young
child, has to have some health care, so they found a dentist and a doctor
willing to take payments over time, Statz said.

"We figure she has about $8,000 in dental care and $1,000 in medical, and that's
just preventive health care for a young woman," she said.

Margaret Bauman can be reached at

margie.bauman@alaskajournal.com

To see more of the Alaska Journal of Commerce, or to subscribe to the newspaper,
go to http://www.alaskajournal.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Alaska Journal of
Commerce, Anchorage Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091023-JA-Business-owners-struggle-with-insurance-needs-costs-1023

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JA


                   Copyright 2009 Alaska Journal of Commerce


                              187 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Forward

                                  May 16, 2003

Moral Issue of Our Time: Make Healthcare an American Right

BYLINE: Richard Gephardt;

Rep. Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, is running for the Democratic
nomination for the 2004 presidential election.

SECTION: News; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words


In 1972, my 2-year-old son Matt was diagnosed with what doctors said was
terminal cancer. My wife, Jane, and I were told he probably wouldn't last six
weeks. I remember those nights when I'd rock my son to sleep. Ask any father and
he'll tell you how much pride you feel when you're able to soothe your children
and watch them drift off to sleep.

Well, for me, in the midst of that time, I never wanted to let him go. In the
end, we were among the most fortunate in more ways than one. My law firm had a
health plan, and it was the only way we could afford new and experimental
therapies. That insurance plan, the talented doctors and nurses, and the grace
of God saved Matt's life.

Millions of people in this country are not nearly as lucky as we were. How can
we, the richest country on this earth, continue to do nothing while 41 million
Americans live without health coverage?

As president, the first bill I will send to Congress will be a law requiring
every employer to offer their employees access to quality coverage, with
employer tax credits covering most of the cost. I will pay for it by repealing
the tax cuts proposed by President Bush. My plan is the only plan that provides
guaranteed health insurance coverage to all workers and the peace of mind that
comes with that guarantee.

My plan achieves the twin goals of universal healthcare coverage and significant
immediate economic stimulus to our troubled economy. The plan uses proven,
existing private and public structures to extend health insurance coverage to
all Americans. At the same time, the resulting economic stimulus will pump more
than $316 billion into the economy during the first three years. The plan is
paid for by repealing the Bush tax cut, replacing a failed economic plan with
universal healthcare and demonstrable economic stimulus.

Employers who currently don't offer health insurance would be required to offer
a quality health plan, and they'd receive a refundable tax credit equaling 60%
of the full cost of the premium - a tax credit they'd pass through completely to
their employees in the form of health insurance. And for those employers who
currently do offer health insurance, my plan replaces the existing tax deduction
with a 60% refundable tax credit - a tax credit on the employer's share of the
premium. One hundred percent of the credit would pay for employee health
insurance costs. "Refundable" means the employer will receive the credit,
whether or not they're making a profit. And the benefits to workers are many.

Under my plan, employers who already offer health insurance would see an
immediate reduction in their overhead. The economic stimulus would result in
billions of dollars in increased wages and benefits, more money in the pockets
of the average family, and more jobs. Under my plan, a working family of four
that currently has employer-based health insurance coverage would receive an
annual increase in wage and benefits of $1,800. My plan is the right way to
stimulate the economy - not knee-jerk tax cuts that do nothing but pay off
George W. Bush's wealthy campaign contributors while killing economic growth.

Adding millions of Americans to the ranks of the insured means more preventive
care, far fewer trips to the emergency room and lower healthcare costs for
everyone. It means we will eliminate the cost of uncompensated care that
currently burdens our system and reduce health premium rates.

My plan would also allow individuals between the ages of 55 and 64 to buy into
Medicare coverage at no cost to the federal government. We'll subsidize 65% of
the cost of COBRA health insurance for the unemployed. We'll subsidize low-wage
workers who are below or near the poverty line who can't afford their share of
the premium. And we'll modify the SCHIP Program for uninsured low-income
children, expanding it to include their parents, and expanding efforts to find
those families that qualify.

My healthcare plan leaves no American on their own to bear the financial burden
of catastrophic healthcare costs.

Rather than pass judgment on those who would seek our help, we should be seeking
every possible means to preserve the dignity and honor of those who are less
fortunate. That's the measure of our worth as a people.

We'll also be helping federal, state and local governments, as well as insurance
companies, crawl out from under the $30 billion to $40 billion they spend every
year on uncompensated care. These regressive costs force up state and local
taxes, and force up our premiums. Removing these costs from the system benefits
us all.

Far too many employers are failing to provide health insurance because the tax
deduction doesn't come close to covering the cost of the insurance premiums. As
a result, millions of American families are left without health insurance.

Some will say my plan rewards companies that haven't been offering health
insurance. The fact is, those companies are receiving no economic benefit. It
will be passed through directly to their employees - who make up a majority of
the uninsured.

Some will say that this is a giveaway to corporate America and a tax increase on
working families. Or they will argue that we're spending billions of tax dollars
to insure workers who already have health insurance. Those people are missing
three important points.

First, my plan requires employers to spend 100% of the tax credit for employee
health insurance coverage. Second, my plan is a greater value to working
families than the Bush tax cuts. Not only will my plan provide working families
with guaranteed health coverage, it will provide stimulus that will put more
money in the pockets of every working American. Third, any universal health plan
must not only address those who do not have health insurance; it must also
address those who are moments away from losing health insurance coverage because
an employer decides to reduce or eliminate coverage.

This is a bold, innovative idea that can work - an idea that can bridge a canyon
of fear and illness and cover everyone in America with health insurance, and
jump-start the economy at the same time. It's morally right and economically
sensible. Healthy workers are productive workers. And healthy families make for
a stronger America.

When my son Matt was sick, I remember the nights we spent in the hospital
waiting room talking to the parents of another patient - a child with severe
cancer from a family that couldn't afford health insurance. Those parents didn't
know what to do. All they could do was pray. As long as I live, I will never
forget the terror in their eyes. In this country of plenty, it should never be
this way.

Access to quality health coverage is the moral issue of our time. As president,
I will work hard everyday to get it done. Let's get this done.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2003 The Forward Association, Incorporated
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 31, 2016 Monday

FEDERAL REGISTER: National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program: Revised Amount
of the Average Cost of a Health Insurance Policy Pages 75138 - 75138 [FR DOC #
2016-26098]

LENGTH: 424  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:



 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Resources and Services
Administration National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program: Revised Amount of
the Average Cost of a Health Insurance Policy The Health Resources and Services
Administration is publishing an updated monetary amount of the average cost of a
health insurance policy as it relates to the National Vaccine Injury
Compensation Program (VICP). Section 100.2 of the VICP's implementing regulation
(42 CFR part 100) states that the revised amount of the average cost of a health
insurance policy, as determined by the Secretary, is effective upon its delivery
by the Secretary to the United States Court of Federal Claims (the Court), and
will be published periodically in a notice in the Federal Register. This figure
is calculated using the most recent Medical Expenditure Panel Survey-Insurance
Component (MEPS-IC) data available as the baseline for the average monthly cost
of a health insurance policy. This baseline is adjusted by the annual percentage
increase/decrease obtained from the most recent annual Kaiser Family Foundation
and Health Research and Educational Trust (KFF/HRET) Employer Health Benefits
Survey or other authoritative source that may be more accurate or appropriate.
In 2016, MEPS-IC, available at www.meps.ahrq.gov, published the annual 2015
average total single premium per enrolled employee at private-sector
establishments that provide health insurance.

The figure published was $5,963. This figure is divided by 12 months to
determine the cost per month of $496.92. The $496.92 is increased or decreased
by the percentage change reported by the most recent KFF/HRET Employer Health
Benefits Survey, available at www.kff.org. The percentage increase from 2015 to
2016 was 2.9 percent. By adding this percentage increase, the calculated average
monthly cost of a health insurance policy for a 12-month period is $511.33.
Therefore, the Secretary announces that the revised average cost of a health
insurance policy under the VICP is $511.33 per month. In accordance with Sec.
100.2, the revised amount was effective upon its delivery by the Secretary to
the Court. Such notice was delivered to the Court on October 24, 2016. Dated:
October 24, 2016. James Macrae, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 2016-26098 Filed
10-27-16; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4165-15-P



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 31, 2016 Monday

FEDERAL REGISTER: National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program: Revised Amount
of the Average Cost of a Health Insurance Policy Pages 75138 - 75138 [FR DOC #
2016-26098]

LENGTH: 424  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:



 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Resources and Services
Administration National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program: Revised Amount of
the Average Cost of a Health Insurance Policy The Health Resources and Services
Administration is publishing an updated monetary amount of the average cost of a
health insurance policy as it relates to the National Vaccine Injury
Compensation Program (VICP). Section 100.2 of the VICP's implementing regulation
(42 CFR part 100) states that the revised amount of the average cost of a health
insurance policy, as determined by the Secretary, is effective upon its delivery
by the Secretary to the United States Court of Federal Claims (the Court), and
will be published periodically in a notice in the Federal Register. This figure
is calculated using the most recent Medical Expenditure Panel Survey-Insurance
Component (MEPS-IC) data available as the baseline for the average monthly cost
of a health insurance policy. This baseline is adjusted by the annual percentage
increase/decrease obtained from the most recent annual Kaiser Family Foundation
and Health Research and Educational Trust (KFF/HRET) Employer Health Benefits
Survey or other authoritative source that may be more accurate or appropriate.
In 2016, MEPS-IC, available at www.meps.ahrq.gov, published the annual 2015
average total single premium per enrolled employee at private-sector
establishments that provide health insurance.

The figure published was $5,963. This figure is divided by 12 months to
determine the cost per month of $496.92. The $496.92 is increased or decreased
by the percentage change reported by the most recent KFF/HRET Employer Health
Benefits Survey, available at www.kff.org. The percentage increase from 2015 to
2016 was 2.9 percent. By adding this percentage increase, the calculated average
monthly cost of a health insurance policy for a 12-month period is $511.33.
Therefore, the Secretary announces that the revised average cost of a health
insurance policy under the VICP is $511.33 per month. In accordance with Sec.
100.2, the revised amount was effective upon its delivery by the Secretary to
the Court. Such notice was delivered to the Court on October 24, 2016. Dated:
October 24, 2016. James Macrae, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 2016-26098 Filed
10-27-16; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4165-15-P



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           August 26, 2009 Wednesday

Medicare not same as single-payer

BYLINE: Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 275 words


I am writing to try to correct a misconception about Medicare that seems to be
prevalent in the recent debate on health insurance reform.

Medicare is not a single-payer system. It pays 80 percent of the costs of most
health care after a deductible is met. Medicare recipients may pay the
deductible and the other 20 percent of the cost of care out of pocket. However,
most obtain supplemental private insurance to cover all or part of this cost.
This type of health insurance plan is very similar to the national health plan
in France which generally covers 75 percent of the cost of care. Most French
citizens are then responsible for paying the remainder out of pocket or must
obtain private insurance to cover some of this cost.

The British health system is a pure single-payer system that covers all aspects
of approved medical care for all citizens through a government-run health
insurance agency funded by tax revenues. Canadian national health insurance
covers almost every aspect of approved medical care except for outpatient
pharmaceuticals. Canadian citizens must obtain private insurance to cover their
medication costs or pay out of pocket for them.

Most other advanced, industrialized nations have a blended system of public and
private health insurance payers. Generally, a basic level of health insurance
coverage is provided to all citizens by the national government, paid for
through tax revenues and administered by either a public health insurance agency
or by private intermediaries. Citizens are then free to obtain private health
insurance that provides an enhanced level of care and expanded benefits.

DAVID GRYGIER, M.D.

Pittsfield

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                                October 6, 2003

Census Bureau Says 43.6 Million Were Uninsured In 2002, Up 5.8%

BYLINE: By Marcella De Simone

SECTION: HEALTH INSURANCE; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 932 words


The number of people without health insurance rose in 2002 by 2.4 million to
43.6 million, the U.S. Census Bureau reported last week.

That translates to an estimated 15.2% of the population with no health insurance
coverage in 2002, up from 14.6% in 2001, according to the Census Bureau's
report, "Health Insurance Coverage in the United States: 2002."

The increase in the ranks of the uninsured is attributed in part in the report
to a drop in the percentage of people covered by employment-based health
insurance from 62.6% to 61.3%.

However, the number of people with health insurance also increased--rising by
1.5 million between 2001 and 2002, to 242.4 million, according to Census
figures.

Both increases can be "attributed largely to an overall population growth from
2001 to 2002," the report says.

More people have health insurance because more are covered by government health
insurance programs. That figure rose in 2002, from 25.3% to 25.7%, largely as
the result of an increase in Medicaid coverage. But this increase was not enough
to offset the decline in private coverage caused by job losses and employee
benefit cutbacks.

Donald Young, president of the Health Insurance Association of America,
Washington, predicts that as the economy rebounds, the number of people with
private health insurance will grow.

But, he thinks double-digit increases in health care costs will put continuing
pressure on both private, employer-backed health insurance and on public
programs like Medicaid and State Children's Health Insurance Program.

"Affordability remains the number one reason people lack health coverage today,"
he said in a prepared statement.

The HIAA suggests avoiding "costly" new mandates or regulations and providing
tax incentives to "help small employers and moderate income workers better
afford health insurance coverage."

The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Washington, is helping organize "Cover the
Uninsured Week," a mobilization effort meant to make the issue of the uninsured
a central part of national discussions through public education and community
events.

The week, planned for May 10-16, 2004, is headed by both the foundation and a
group of former surgeons general and presidents including Jimmy Carter and
Gerald Ford.

Among the planned events are community health fairs, educational forums,
workshops for small business owners seeking to maintain health coverage for
their employees, and volunteer efforts by physicians and others, the foundation
says.

Ronald Pollack, executive director of the consumer group Families USA,
Washington, said in a prepared statement that the growth of the numbers of the
uninsured is the largest increase in a decade.

"The increase in the number of people without health coverage is the direct
result of our weak and job-losing economy," he said. "This increase was caused
by unemployment growth, double-digit health cost increases, and employers--who
find spiraling health costs to be unaffordable--passing on more and more of
those costs to their workers."

The passing on of costs has been noted by the American worker, according to a
recent Employee Benefits Research Institute survey.

It says fewer and fewer employees are confident their employers will continue
offering health insurance in the years ahead. A growing number thinks a system
of government coverage would work better.

The sixth annual Health Confidence Survey was released last week by
Washington-based EBRI and Mathew Greenwald & Associates Inc., also based in
Washington.

Between 2000 and 2003, the percentage of Americans with employment-based health
benefits that are extremely or very confident their employer will continue to
offer coverage fell from 68% to 61%, the survey says.

In the past year alone, the proportion of those with employer coverage who
express a preference for a government-operated system jumped from 17% to 31%.
But, 55% of those in employment-based plans continue to believe the
employment-based system is best, the survey says.

Among all Americans, support for a government plan jumped from 25 to 36% in the
past year.

The survey finds that Americans generally remain satisfied with the medical care
they are receiving, but increasingly are uncomfortable about rising costs.

In 2003, 48% said they were dissatisfied with health costs not covered by
insurance, up from 37% in 1998. A comparable group, 44%, was unhappy about the
cost of health insurance, up from 32% in 1998.

These cost concerns may explain why a number of Americans say health care is one
of the most critical issues facing the nation today (20% say it is the top
priority), according to the survey.

Among other Census Bureau findings is that the proportion of insured children
did not change in 2002, remaining at 64.8 million, or 88.4% of all children.

Although Medicaid insured 14 million people in poverty, another 10.5 million
people representing 30.4% of those in poverty had no health insurance in 2002;
this percentage was unchanged from 2001.

Young adults (18 to 24 years old) were less likely than other age groups to have
health insurance coverage-70.4% in 2002. This compares with 82.3% for those 25
to 64 years old and 99.2% for those 65 and over, reflecting widespread Medicare
coverage.

While most children (67.5%) were covered by an employment-based or privately
purchased health insurance plan in 2002, nearly one in four (23.9%) was covered
by Medicaid.
Increase attributed in part to a drop in the percentage of people covered by
employment-based health insurance

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 The National Underwriter Company


                              192 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Like sunscreen, insurance may cover your well-being; One-day stay in U.S.
hospital for a broken arm can run $32,600

BYLINE: LISA MONFORTON, Canwest News Service

SECTION: WEEKEND: TRAVEL; Pg. H8

LENGTH: 415  words


Just about the time the second wave of the H1N1 virus hits, many of us will be
thinking about booking a holiday in a hot place.

Escaping the cold doesn't mean you can dodge the illness. You can expect the flu
virus to be lurking in crowded airports, on planes and in hotels. Sure, you can
take the usual precautions, washing hands and practising the knuckle bump
instead of a handshake or hug. And getting the vaccine when it becomes
available.

But there's one thing many of us often overlook in our haste to beat it to
beaches and deserts: travel health insurance. A 2008 Ipsos Reid poll conducted
for RBC Insurance suggests the topic is not considered as sexy as the bikini you
might buy for the trip. Here are a few highlights:

- Nearly 40 per cent of Canadians never purchase health insurance when
travelling on holidays to the United States, where medical costs are some of the
highest in the world. According to the study, a four-day stay in a U.S. hospital
for an appendectomy could cost $39,400 U.S., with only a small fraction covered
by a government health insurance plan (GHIP). A one-day stay in a U.S. hospital
for a broken arm and wrist could cost $32,600, with less than $500 covered by a
GHIP.

-- In a similar study done the year before, it was found that 64 per cent have
never purchased travel health insurance when travelling in Canada because three
out of four people polled believe their provincial health insurance plans would
cover everything. (Provincial plans often have different rates for medical
procedures and exclude X-rays, dental work, ambulance transportation and
prescription drugs.) One example cited the cost of an air ambulance with a full
medical team travelling from Calgary to Toronto; the $28,000 cost would not be
covered by a government health insurance plan.

- Nearly 30 per cent have never purchased travel insurance when travelling
outside of Canada or the United States, skewing toward 18-to 34-year-olds.
Another common misconception is that certain credit cards that have travel
health insurance cover all costs incurred for illness or injury while
travelling. It's wise to read the fine print because this is often not the case.

The cost of travel insurance is usually based on no pre-existing health issues,
length of trip and age.

A deluxe package can include cancellation and interruption coverage, emergency
medical coverage, emergency medical transportation, baggage and personal effects
coverage, flight accident and travel accident coverage.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: CARLA GOTTGENS, BLOOMBERG; Many Canadians know a flu vaccine can
help protect them, but fewer think of getting travel health insurance. ;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            January 5, 2016 Tuesday

Drinking, smoking, obesity cost South Korea W23tr: report

LENGTH: 598 words


Problems and damages resulting from excessive drinking, smoking and obesity cost
South Korea 23.3 trillion won ($19.7 billion) in 2013, which was equivalent to
nearly half of the spending on medical costs covered by the national health
insurance, a report showed Monday.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The report, written and released by the Health Insurance Policy
Research Institute under Korea's National Health Insurance Service, said
problems resulting from drinking cost Korea 9.4 trillion won, smoking 7.1
trillion won and obesity 6.7 trillion won.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The total cost of 23.3 trillion won was equal to 45.8 percent
of total medical costs covered by the national health insurance that year.

(123RF)

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Among the costs, the biggest portion, 39.1 percent, was spent
on medical bills, 35.9 percent was lost future income due to early death and
13.9 percent was down to the loss of productivity, such as for lost workdays due
to illness.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The cost for the problematic lifestyle choices and health
conditions has increased significantly in Korea since 2005, according to the
report. Health risks cost the nation 13.5 trillion won in 2005, 17.6 trillion
won in 2007, 20 trillion won in 2008 and 21.6 trillion won in 2011.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Among the three health risks, the cost for obesity increased
the most, by 222 percent from 2005 to 2013, while the cost for smoking increased
by 162 percent and drinking 156 percent.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The report also showed that 71.7 percent of the cost in 2013
was spent on those in their 40s to 60s. Only 3.2 percent of the cost was spent
on those aged 20 or under.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]In terms of gender, a significantly bigger portion of the cost
-- 17.2 trillion won -- was for Korean men.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Early deaths were the biggest cost for drinking and smoking
complications, accounting for 42.3 percent of drinking-related problems and 47.7
percent of smoking-related problems. The costs for medical bills for the two
risks accounted for 25 percent for drinking and 34.1 percent for smoking.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Yet for obesity, the cost from early deaths accounted for 13.5
percent, but the cost for medical bills accounted for 64.2 percent, which was
significantly higher than the proportion for drinking and smoking.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The report suggested that the Health Ministry come up with
stricter measures to prevent excessive drinking, as the largest sum of money was
spent for problems and damage resulting from alcohol consumption in 2013.
Researchers also stressed the importance of preventing obesity to maintain the
stability of the nation's national health insurance system.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Obesity has emerged as a major health threat in South Korea in
recent years. According to a study released by NHIS last year, the number of
obese Koreans -- those with a body mass index of 30 or above -- accounted for
4.2 percent of the population in 2012, up from 2.5 percent in 2002.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]One in 17 South Koreans will be obese in 2025, and some 7
trillion won would be needed to treat them medically if the current trend
continues, the report said.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Excessive alcohol intake is in fact considered as one of the
key contributing factors for obesity, along with job-related stress and physical
inactivity. In a 2014 report released by Euromonitor, a London-based market
intelligence firm, Koreans were said to drink 13.7 shots of liquor per week on
average. This makes them the heaviest drinkers in the world, beating Russians
and Thais, according to the study.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Among the three risks, South Korea has been making conscious
and consistent efforts to curb smoking since 2014, including an 80 percent
increase in cigarette prices that went into effect last year.

By Claire Lee (

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                             January 4, 2016 Monday

Drinking, smoking, obesity cost South Korea W23tr: report

LENGTH: 598 words


Problems and damages resulting from excessive drinking, smoking and obesity cost
South Korea 23.3 trillion won ($19.7 million) in 2013, which was equivalent to
nearly half of the spending on medical costs covered by the national health
insurance, a report showed Monday.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The report, written and released by the Health Insurance Policy
Research Institute under Korea's National Health Insurance Service, said
problems resulting from drinking cost Korea 9.4 trillion won, smoking 7.1
trillion won and obesity 6.7 trillion won.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The total cost of 23.3 trillion won was equal to 45.8 percent
of total medical costs covered by the national health insurance that year.

(123RF)

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Among the costs, the biggest portion, 39.1 percent, was spent
on medical bills, 35.9 percent was lost future income due to early death and
13.9 percent was down to the loss of productivity, such as for lost workdays due
to illness.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The cost for the problematic lifestyle choices and health
conditions has increased significantly in Korea since 2005, according to the
report. Health risks cost the nation 13.5 trillion won in 2005, 17.6 trillion
won in 2007, 20 trillion won in 2008 and 21.6 trillion won in 2011.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Among the three health risks, the cost for obesity increased
the most, by 222 percent from 2005 to 2013, while the cost for smoking increased
by 162 percent and drinking 156 percent.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The report also showed that 71.7 percent of the cost in 2013
was spent on those in their 40s to 60s. Only 3.2 percent of the cost was spent
on those aged 20 or under.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]In terms of gender, a significantly bigger portion of the cost
-- 17.2 trillion won -- was for Korean men.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Early deaths were the biggest cost for drinking and smoking
complications, accounting for 42.3 percent of drinking-related problems and 47.7
percent of smoking-related problems. The costs for medical bills for the two
risks accounted for 25 percent for drinking and 34.1 percent for smoking.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Yet for obesity, the cost from early deaths accounted for 13.5
percent, but the cost for medical bills accounted for 64.2 percent, which was
significantly higher than the proportion for drinking and smoking.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]The report suggested that the Health Ministry come up with
stricter measures to prevent excessive drinking, as the largest sum of money was
spent for problems and damage resulting from alcohol consumption in 2013.
Researchers also stressed the importance of preventing obesity to maintain the
stability of the nation's national health insurance system.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Obesity has emerged as a major health threat in South Korea in
recent years. According to a study released by NHIS last year, the number of
obese Koreans -- those with a body mass index of 30 or above -- accounted for
4.2 percent of the population in 2012, up from 2.5 percent in 2002.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]One in 17 South Koreans will be obese in 2025, and some 7
trillion won would be needed to treat them medically if the current trend
continues, the report said.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Excessive alcohol intake is in fact considered as one of the
key contributing factors for obesity, along with job-related stress and physical
inactivity. In a 2014 report released by Euromonitor, a London-based market
intelligence firm, Koreans were said to drink 13.7 shots of liquor per week on
average. This makes them the heaviest drinkers in the world, beating Russians
and Thais, according to the study.

ã[#x20ac][#x20ac]Among the three risks, South Korea has been making conscious
and consistent efforts to curb smoking since 2014, including an 80 percent
increase in cigarette prices that went into effect last year.

By Claire Lee (

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                October 21, 2012

Health insurance set to cause more pain

SECTION: PERSONAL FINANCE

LENGTH: 810 words


Consumers look set to face bigger bills for health insurance in the coming
years, as the market adapts to the new risk equalisation scheme and insurers
contend with medical inflation.

Last week, the government published the Health Insurance (Amendment) Bill, which
provides for a new risk equalisation scheme in the private health insurance
market from January 1.

Risk equalisation aims to "equitably neutralise differences in insurers' costs
that arise due to variations in the age profile of the insurers", according to
the Health Insurance Authority. A risk equalisation system involves transfer
payments between health insurers.

Insurers face massive cost differentials, depending on the profile of their
clients. According to the HIA, the average claim cost for people aged 70 to 79
in 2011 was EUR 2,442, compared to EUR 224 for those aged 18 to 29.

Some insurers, notably VHI Healthcare, have a much higher market share among
older customers, meaning a higher overall claims cost. According to the HIA, VHI
Healthcare had a 56 per cent market share in the age group up to 49, and a 90
per cent market share of the over-80s last December.

The new legislation, which aims to level the playing field in the health
insurance market, will replace the present temporary levy on health insurance.
Under this system, a levy is applied to all health insurance companies for each
adult and child on their books. Insurers have passed on this additional cost to
consumers, resulting in steady premium increases in recent years.

The health insurance levy was introduced in 2009 at a rate of EUR 160 per adult
and EUR 53 per child. A few years -- and a few increases -- later, the levy now
stands at EUR 285 for adults and EUR 95 for children.

Under the risk equalisation system, two rates will apply: one for public
hospital care, that is expected to be lower than the existing levy rate, and
another higher rate for private care. This is likely to mean higher costs for
those using private hospitals, or semi-private rooms in public hospitals.

Ultimately, consumers will see little difference under the new system, said
Dermot Goode, health insurance expert with healthinsurancesavings.ie. "The
current system of levies is there to compensate insurers carrying higher risk,"
he said. "The new system is more robust, but it has the same objective. For the
vast majority of people, there will be no cost saving from this."

Aongus Loughlin, head of healthcare and risk consulting at benefits consultants
Towers Watson, echoed Goode's view. "All it is doing is trying to balance things
between different insurers on their book of business," he said. "It's not
designed to help you and me, or tackle rising prices."

Goode said the "risk equalisation charge" that got passed on to consumers could
be lower on plans that covered public hospitals only, and higher for those with
private hospital cover. He estimated that only about 10 to 15 per cent of all
consumers with private health insurance plans had cover for public hospitals
only, meaning price rises were likely for the vast majority of customers.

However, Goode said that the new scheme would be just one element of insurers'
pricing decision. He added that insurers were also aware of public hospital
charges, medical inflation and claim costs. "For example, if the Minister for
Health announces increases in public hospital charges, you will see all the
insurers passing that on and coming out with a price increase," he said.

Loughlin said that, as long as medical inflation continued, there was little
prospect of premium reductions in the health insurance market. He said that new
procedures, technologies and medicines were driving up the cost of medical care,
and in turn increasing insurance costs for consumers. "Risk equalisation can't
tackle that," he said.

More price hikes are likely, according to Loughlin. For example, he predicted
further increases in public hospital charges, with a knock-on effect on health
insurance costs.

Figures from the HIA show a big decline in the number of people with private
health insurance, since the market peaked with 2.3 million customers at the end
of 2008. Over the last three years, close to 175,000 people have cancelled their
cover.

Dónal Clancy, managing director of Laya Healthcare, said that affordability was
the number one reason for people leaving the market, with primarily younger
people cancelling their policies. "This is a disaster for the future of the
healthcare industry, as young people are critical in helping underpin the
principle of community rating," he said.

"It's a vicious circle when more people choose to opt out of private health
insurance. They merely fall back into an already overstretched and overburdened
public health system. One of the better ways to make improvements is to
incentivise young people to enter or stay in the market," Clancy said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Day (New London, Connecticut)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 23, 2009 Wednesday

Study agrees: Health care insurance costs soaring

BYLINE: Judy Benson, The Day, New London, Conn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 610 words


Sep. 23--Connecticut employers have seen their health insurance premium costs
rise 135 percent over the past decade, the fourth-highest increase in the
nation, according to a new Kaiser Family Foundation report being highlighted by
the White House as part of its push for health care reform.

Nationwide, the average per-worker cost for family coverage has jumped from
about $5,000 per year in 1999 to about $13,375 this year. In the Northeast, the
2009 premiums are averaging about $700 higher than that.

"The rise in health insurance premiums is burdening families and threatening our
economy," the White House said in a statement on the Kaiser report. "Premiums
are rising in all states far in excess of wage growth or inflation."

It warned that without health reform, health insurance will become increasingly
unaffordable to businesses and families, and many will lose coverage.

To business advocates and employers, the report's findings are hardly
surprising. Tony Sheridan, president of the Chamber of Commerce of Eastern
Connecticut, said paying for health insurance for employees is "the costliest
part of running a small business."

In a survey of its 1,600 member businesses three years ago, he added, an
overwhelming number of respondents cited health insurance costs as a major
problem.

"Eight-two percent of businesses indicated that the system is broken and needs
fixing," Sheridan said.

While there are disagreements about how health insurance and health care should
be reformed, he said, there is widespread agreement that something needs to be
done, said Eric George, associate counsel at the Connecticut Business and
Industry Association. He noted that according to the Kaiser report, the share of
premiums being borne by employees and employers has been unchanged at
one-quarter to three-quarters, with both sides seeing steady increases.

The report, he said, "just highlights the fact that we've got to do something
now."

Controlling health insurance and health care costs, he said, have not received
enough attention in the reform debates. Every year, more businesses -- mainly
small ones -- drop coverage for employees, and health insurance costs are also
preventing employers from adding new employees, he said.

"Businesses are making hiring decisions on health care costs alone," he said.

But the costs of treatments, hospitalization, tests and overuse of the medical
care system also need to be addressed in any meaningful reform effort, George
said, along with more emphasis on programs that keep people healthy.

That is among the strategies being used at one large local employer, Lawrence &
Memorial Hospital, in the hopes that with fewer employee claims for medical
care, premium increases can be slowed. The nonprofit hospital spends about $20
million annually to cover about 2,000 employees, said Trish Wettlaufer, benefits
program manager. It is anticipating a 10 to 12 percent increase next year, she
added.

"It is continually more and more difficult as these increases come across," she
said. "We continue evaluating these every year."

During the recession, Wettlaufer said, more L&M employees have been adding
spouses to their health insurance coverage, after spouses have lost insurance
after layoffs or when employers canceled coverage.

To see more of The Day, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.theday.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Day, New London, Conn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090923-NL-Study-agrees-Health-care-insurance-costs-soaring-0923

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NL


                             Copyright 2009 The Day


                              197 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                             April 17, 2007 Tuesday

Business group: Cut state workers' health benefits  ;
 Civic Federation: Contain the cost

BYLINE: DANA HEUPEL STATE CAPITOL BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words


Benefits for state employees came under fire again Monday in a report that
targets health insurance costs.

The Civic Federation, an influential group of Chicago-area business leaders,
recommends reducing the options for health insurance plans and forcing employees
and retirees to contribute more to the cost of their coverage.

Those moves could save state government as much as $466 million a year, said
Laurence Msall, president of the organization. The Civic Foundation's report
comes just four months after a study by the Civic Committee of the Commercial
Club of Chicago that also pointed to reductions in state employee health
benefits, as well as pensions, as ways to cut state spending.

"It's important for policymakers in government and the legislature to understand
that not effectively managing your health-care costs is driving out your ability
to fund other priority areas," Msall said Monday.

But the executive director of the largest state employee union said the real
problem is that Illinois has a structural deficit.

"The state needs to generate more revenue in order to fund state services," said
Henry Bayer of Council 31 of the American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees.

"The business community doesn't want to recognize that. Their prescription for
everything is cut, cut, cut," Bayer said. "It would be nice if once in a while,
the business community would step forward with a positive program."

"We're not talking about taking away anyone's insurance benefits," Msall said.
"We're talking about managing the cost of those programs. We're talking about a
series of recommendations that other states and the private sector have long
since implemented."

Specifically, the study conducted by Civic Federation staff recommends:

* Eliminating the indemnity - or traditional - health insurance coverage for
state employees and retirees, placing them in HMOs or open access plans. The
study estimates that would save state government $176.6 million to $253.4
million per year.

* Increasing employee health insurance premiums to conform to national averages
for businesses and governments.

The study recommends charging state workers at least 1 percent more of the cost
of their health insurance, which could save the state $10.2 million. Workers
with single coverage now pay from 5.4 percent to 11.6 percent of the cost,
according to the study.

If premiums were raised to reflect the 15 percent national averages for large
plans, employees would pay 15 percent of the cost of individual coverage and 22
percent for family policies, the study says. That could save the state up to
$67.3 million.

* Ending free health insurance for state retirees. Retired employees with more
than 20 years' service now pay no health insurance premiums. The study
recommends charging retirees at one of three levels: 15 percent of the premium
cost, which would save the state $20 million; 25 percent, which would save $89
million; or 41 percent, which would save $146 million.

Msall said 41 percent is the average private-sector employee contribution to
health insurance costs.

Bayer said, however, that state workers "are already paying their fair share of
the premiums, both for family and for single coverage. The benefits they receive
are not out of line with what other people who work for a living for large
employers receive."

"The study doesn't recognize the fact that most employees are in managed care of
one form or another, in a PPO or in an HMO," Bayer said.

The report says about three-fourths of state workers are covered by managed-care
plans, compared with only 30 percent of state retirees. Added together, nearly
60 percent of current and former workers opt for managed-care plans. The rest
choose indemnity policies.

Msall said the Civic Federation decided to look at employee and retiree health
insurance as part of its annual analysis of the state's financial condition.

Over the past decade, health insurance costs have risen by an average annual
rate of 9.4 percent, he said, compared with 5.2 percent for overall state
spending. Employee and retiree health insurance now costs taxpayers $1.8 billion
a year, or 3.4 percent of state government's total appropriations, the study
says.

The Civic Federation report, Msall said, "provides independent evidence as to
the areas where the state of Illinois is out of line with other states and the
private sector in their costs and in their programs. And it provides an
actionable set of recommendations for reducing those costs."

He said the organization will distribute its findings to legislative and
executive policymakers before final deliberations on next year's state budget.

The report can be viewed in the "publications" section of the Web site
www.civicfed.org.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             July 24, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Patients and parents feel the strain;
INFLATION SPIKES - Services

BYLINE: Alexander Symonds

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 352 words


Health care and education costs, two key sources of domestic inflation, have
continued their rapid rise, pushed higher by increases in private health
insurance premiums and private school fees.

Health care costs rose by 2.4 per cent in the June quarter, according to the
consumer price index.

Education costs were stable in the June quarter but are now tracking at an
annual increase of more than 4 per cent, as fees have had to rise to cope with
teachers' increasing salaries and maintenance costs.

The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare's principal economist, John Goss,
said health costs tended to jump in the June quarter following approvals from
the federal health minister for private health funds to raise premiums.

Over the long term, he said, "it's been the premiums paid for private health
insurance that are quite a large portion of the total private expenditure on
health".

Furthermore, the CPI's calculation of health costs focused on private health
insurance premiums and individuals' out-of-pocket expenses.

The cost of hospital and medical services, which includes private health
insurance, increased by 4 per cent in the June quarter and 6.1 per cent year on
year.

In March, Health Minister Nicola Roxon granted an average increase in private
health insurance premiums of 4.99 per cent , compared with a rise of 4.52 per
cent last year.

Australia and New Zealand Banking Group economist Riki Polygenis said federal
government changes to the Medicare levy surcharge could slow demand for private
health insurance and push up the cost of premiums.

While education prices are typically stable in the June quarter, 5 per cent-plus
rises in such costs have been common in the March quarter, when increases in
school fees are felt. And over the year to the June quarter, secondary school
costs have risen by 6.6 per cent.

Australian Scholarships Group managing director Terry O'Connell said most of the
increase in costs had been driven by the "important recognition that teachers
should receive higher pay - teachers' salaries, more support staff and
technology, as well as maintenance and insurance costs".

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Profit no prescription for Medibank Private's future

BYLINE: Sandy Halley. Sandy Halley is an insurance industry consultant and was
the commissioner of the Private Health Insurance Administration Council between
1992 and 1998.

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Opinion; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 826 words


Government needs to think of other ways to minimise the cost of medical
coverage, writes Sandy Halley.

WITH the sale of Medibank Private moving up the Government's agenda, it is worth
asking what the benefits will be from the sale, especially since it would appear
to be a high-risk strategy for the Federal Government.

Medibank Private has nearly a third of the market, covering about 10 per cent of
the population. If the private health insurer is sold off to for-profit
companies, members' premiums will rise to cover the cost to its new owners of
their purchase, along with the cost of funding any planned expansion, plus the
cost of paying dividends to the new owners.

Sir Humphrey Appelby of Yes, Minister fame would call it "courageous" to risk a
large price rise that would create effects including a flight from the private
health insurance market.

The effect on prices would be lessened if Medibank Private was broken up and
sold to mutual health funds, although this is unlikely because Department of
Health officials have been pressuring governments for decades to break the
stranglehold of the mutually owned funds on the health insurance market - advice
that is consistent with the Government's philosophy.

When the sale of Medibank Private has been debated previously, an impediment has
been confusion about its ownership. Former health ministers had received advice
that Medibank Private belonged to its members and that it might not be the
Government's to sell. Until now, the opposition of the Senate to the sale has
made Medibank Private's provenance a moot point.

At present, close to 9 million Australians are covered by private health
insurance. Tax rebates have increased membership to 43 per cent of the
population from an all-time low of 30 per cent in 1999. At less than 27 per
cent, national private health insurance is not sustainable because the "pool" is
too small.

Strictly speaking, private health insurance is a social policy, not insurance.
Premiums are not based on risk; if they were, no one over 65 or the very ill
would be able to afford them. In effect, low-use health fund members pay for the
cost of high-use customers; healthy, younger members subsidise older members.

Health insurance premiums contribute more than $8.5 billion a year (before tax
rebates) to cover health costs. Opponents of the tax rebate do not take account
of the net contribution of about $5 billion a year of private health insurance
to the cost of health care, especially in hospitals. About a quarter of that is
spent on public hospital beds. State governments want the revenue from private
patients in public hospitals, and health funds prefer public hospital beds
because they can be a half to a third of the cost of private beds.

The price of private health insurance has risen by 40 per cent in six years, due
largely to more use of increasingly expensive technology, greater investment in
extending the last vestiges of life, greater use of services, especially by
people older than 65, longer hospital stays for severely and chronically ill
people (due to inadequate and insufficient alternatives), high private hospital
bed fees, private health fund members using public hospitals without disclosing
their private fund membership and the administrative costs of federal and state
government roles.

Since its inception, private health insurance has been supplied by funds owned
mutually by policyholders. Only five of the 39 funds are for-profit companies.
Mutually owned funds are run commercially and have to generate surpluses to
survive, but they do not distribute dividends. Rather, surpluses are used to
keep prices down, to offer additional services and to provide a margin for
solvency and liquidity purposes.

The Productivity Commission found the mutual funds to be operating efficiently,
with no economic benefit to be gained from reducing their number or encouraging
"for-profit" companies to enter the market. Since the rising price of health
insurance is not a product of inefficient management but of the rising cost of
health (especially for the aged), it makes no sense to add shareholder dividends
to the premiums of at least a third, if not all, of policyholders. In short,
Australia's health system cannot afford to privatise Medibank Private.

Cost-containment policies will require the co-operation of federal and state
governments. Policies could include encouraging health funds to obtain equity in
hospitals (but not manage them); making health insurance more attractive to the
over 65s and under 35s; connecting health insurance and nursing home policy;
increasing the supply, range and accessibility of convalescent, chronic and
palliative care facilities outside hospitals; rationalising Commonwealth and
state roles; regulating private hospital charges; creating efficiency in
home-based care for elderly people by making services demand- rather than
supply-driven; and policing private-insurance users in public hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                            October 18, 2005 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

Let cities and towns buy into state's health insurance pool

BYLINE: James B. Leary

SECTION: COMMENTARY; AS I SEE IT; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 748 words


Skyrocketing health insurance costs are negatively impacting organizations of
all types, from private business to governmental entities. Perhaps nowhere is
the impact as acute or as obvious as in the case of municipal governments.
Rapidly escalating health insurance costs have put cities and towns across the
commonwealth in the untenable position of either cutting municipal services or
increasing already high property taxes.

A recent Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation report reveals that the cost of
health coverage to municipal employees has skyrocketed by an average of 63
percent from 2001 to 2005. Though health insurance costs have increased in
virtually all sectors, the municipal increase is especially drastic: The
municipal health insurance growth rate was nearly double the rate of increase
for health coverage of state government employees over the same period.

Continued growth at this rate is simply unsustainable. Health insurance cost
increases far exceed the growth rate in municipal revenues. As a result, city
and town policy makers must make cuts elsewhere in their already strained
budgets in order to simply maintain the status quo in health insurance.
Reductions in staff levels in critical departments and cutbacks in basic
services such as street and sidewalk repair are the inevitable result.

A variety of proposals has been suggested in order to address this challenge,
but these ideas have a mixed chance of success at best. Notable among these is
the idea of removing health insurance completely from the collective bargaining
process and allowing municipal governments to unilaterally decide how to share
premium costs between employer and employee. This proposal has been met with
vigorous opposition from employee unions, who argue that concessions which they
received on the issue of premium splits were based upon concessions that they
made in other areas, such as wages or work rules.

As we debate this issue in the Legislature, I will advocate for an idea that
recognizes the concerns of both sides and has the potential to yield greater
savings than other proposals. I believe that we should allow municipalities to
purchase into the same health insurance plans that provide coverage for state
employees, and to do so as part of the same insurance pool as the state.
Currently municipalities may do so as separate, individual pools but no
community has ever done so because it would not yield significant savings. As
part of the larger state employee pool, on the other hand, the savings could be
enormous.

This idea can be adopted in either of two ways, both of which may result in
significant savings, while at the same time preserving the basic framework of
collective bargaining. The first would be to allow the municipality and the
union to agree through collective bargaining to enter into the state system.

The union would agree to do so under all the same terms and conditions as state
employees, including the premium share paid by state employees. The alternative
would be for the municipality and unions to agree to join the state pool while
still negotiating how to share the costs of the premium between employee and
employer. The municipality would forward full payment of the premium to the
state and would collect the employee's share directly from him or her.

In either case, the savings could be considerable. In the two municipalities
that I represent Worcester and West Boylston adoption of this plan could
immediately have a positive impact on their budgets. The cost of comparable
state health insurance plans is approximately 75 percent to 80 percent of the
cost in either of these municipalities. As a result, adoption of this plan could
yield significant savings for both communities, while still providing their
employees with comprehensive and highquality coverage. It is very likely that
this dynamic could be repeated in communities of all sizes throughout
Massachusetts. The money saved could alleviate the tax burden on homeowners and
enable communities to dedicate much needed funds to critical services such as
schools, roads and public safety.

The time has come to grapple with the developing municipal health insurance
crisis. Active involvement on the state level, by opening up our state health
plans to municipal employees, will serve everyone well municipal leaders,
municipal employees and, most important, the residents and taxpayers of our
communities.

State Rep. James B. Leary represents the 14th Worcester District.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            January 29, 1997, Wednesday, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR EDITION

BILL SEEKS CAP ON HEALTH PREMIUMS

BYLINE: Lesley Rogers; Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 02B

LENGTH: 274 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, ILL.


Health insurance premiums in Illinois would not be allowed to increase more than
5 percent a year under a new legislative proposal.

"We have to do something about the rising cost of health insurance in Illinois,"
said Rep. Lou Lang, D-Skokie, who will introduce the bill today.

Lang acknowledged the bill probably would not help people who cannot now afford
health insurance. But he said it would stop people from discontinuing insurance
because of sharp cost increases.

Fewer people can afford health insurance because premiums have risen an average
of 8.47 percent a year from 1981 to 1994, Lang said.

About 90.3 percent of Illinois residents had health insurance in 1987 as against
88.6 percent in 1994, the Legislature's Legislative Research Unit reported.
Premium increases should reflect the general inflation rate of 2 or 3 percent a
year, Lang said.

The president of the Illinois Life Insurance Council, Larry Barry, said the cost
of medical inflation is much higher than standard inflation.

"If medical inflation goes up, insurance premiums go up," Barry said.

Doctor, hospital and pharmaceutical costs are driving health insurance prices
up, Barry said. If these prices increase at 10 percent and insurance premiums
cannot increase by more than 5 percent, medical facilities will go bankrupt or
increase costs elsewhere, Barry said.

Lang said that health care costs are out of control and that a cap was needed to
make health insurance widely available.

Barry countered that managed care health systems may be the best way to ensure
that more people have access to affordable health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              202 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday

Eshoo, Thompson Reintroduce Legislation to Make Health Insurance More Affordable
for Families in High Cost Areas

LENGTH: 717  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of House of Representative Anna G.Eshoo, U.S Government has issued the
following news release:

U.S. Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Mike Thompson (CA-5) reintroduced today the
Fair Access to Health Care Act, legislation to expand the eligibility for
premium tax credits for people living in high-cost areas who purchase health
insurance through the federal and state exchanges set up by the Affordable Care
Act (ACA).

"The Affordable Care Act is helping low to middle-income Americans buy private
health insurance with subsidies adjusted to their income level," Eshoo said.
"While this is tremendously helpful to millions of individuals and families,
there are others in high-cost areas, like those in my home district of Silicon
Valley, who cannot benefit because the threshold to qualify for subsidies does
not account for the cost of living."

Eshoo continued, "The Fair Access to Health Act ties health insurance subsidies
to the cost of living of a geographic area instead of to the national federal
poverty level. In doing so, we can expand access to health insurance and improve
our nation's health."

"In many communities in our district the cost of living is far higher than the
national average," said Thompson. "A middle class income means different things
in different parts of the country and that's why the income thresholds set by
the ACA need to take cost of living into account. With qualifying income levels
set across-the-board, many hard working families in high-cost areas like ours
don't qualify for subsides and therefore can't get affordable insurance. This
bill will help make health insurance affordable, no matter where someone lives."

Currently the ACA allows those making between 138 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level (FPL) to qualify for premium tax credits to help them purchase
health insurance through the ACA's exchanges. At this level, an individual
making up to $45,960 and a family of four making up to $94,200 qualify for
premium tax credits.

However, the income threshold used to determine eligibility for these tax
credits doesn't take into account the cost of living for different geographic
areas. A family living in New York City or San Francisco is treated the same as
a family living in a small town in South Carolina or Texas. The Fair Access to
Health Care Act would allow the premium tax credits offered through the ACA to
be increased proportionally based on an area's cost of living.

Under the bill, the federal poverty level threshold will increase proportionally
based on an area's cost of living above the national average cost-of-living. The
cost-of-living is determined using the Census Bureau's Supplemental Poverty
Measure (SPM).

Based on available SPM data, using this calculation:

In the San Francisco-Oakland-Freemont, California Metropolitan Statistical Area
(MSA), a family of four earning up to $125,757 and individuals earning up to
$61,356 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance
through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Vallejo-Fairfield, CA MSA, a family of four earning up to $109,743
and an individual earning up to $53,543 could qualify for premium tax credits to
purchase health insurance through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Napa, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $116,808 and individuals
earning up to$56,990 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health
insurance through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Santa Rosa-Petaluma, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $113,746
and individuals earning up to $55,496 could qualify for premium tax credits to
purchase health insurance through the ACA's exchanges.

Precedent already exists in the ACA for such cost-of-living adjustments. The ACA
accounts for the cost-of-living differences in Alaska and Hawaii by using a
higher income threshold to determine subsidy eligibility. The Fair Access to
Health Care Act would provide similar adjustments to the other 48 states.

Individuals and families from low-cost geographical areas will not be impacted
by this legislation. Those earning up to 400 percent of the FPL would still be
eligible for subsides and no region would see a reduction from their current
subsidy level.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            October 13, 2009 Tuesday
                             Politifact.com Edition

STUDY FROM HEALTH INSURERS SAYS PREMIUMS WILL RISE, BUT IT'S NOT THE WHOLE STORY

BYLINE: ANGIE DROBNIC HOLAN

SECTION: POLITIFACT.COM

LENGTH: 918 words


A report by the health insurance industry "ignores some of the key policies that
are part of the Senate Finance Committee bill."

Nancy-Ann DeParle on Monday, October 12th, 2009 in an interview on "The
NewsHour"

THE RULING: TRUE

* * *

The day before an important vote in a Senate committee, the health insurance
industry group released a report saying that health care reform will
dramatically increase the cost of insurance.

The Obama administration attacked the report as a last-ditch effort to derail
reform.

"I was disappointed to see that the health insurance industry had contrived a
report like this at the last minute, right on the eve of a historic vote," said
Nancy-Ann DeParle, director of the White House Office of Health Reform.

The report "ignores some of the key policies that are part of the Senate Finance
Committee bill, such as the health insurance exchange, which is really a central
feature that allows people to be pooled together to save administrative costs
and to lower people's cost in achieving getting coverage," DeParle said.

For this item, we're checking DeParle's statement that the report ignores parts
of the bill that would reduce costs.

The 26-page report was put together by PricewaterhouseCoopers. It examined four
parts of a bill under consideration by the Senate Finance Committee.

The report examined four separate parts of the bill and found that all of them
would increase costs for health insurance companies and health care providers.
These increased costs would then most likely be passed on to consumers.

Among the report's complaints about the Finance Committee bill:

* Weak mandate. The legislation requires insurance companies to cover everyone
regardless of pre-existing conditions. The report says this might be all right
if everyone were required to buy insurance, but the rules requiring people to
buy coverage are weak and take too long to phase in. That means insurers would
have to raise rates overall to pay for coverage of sick people that they can
currently exclude from coverage.

* Excise taxes on "Cadillac" plans. Insurance companies would pay an extra tax
on the most generous health insurance plans people buy. The report said these
taxes would be passed directly to consumers, and they projected that more plans
would meet the definition of a "Cadillac" plan.

* Increased cost-shifting. The report claims that Medicare pays health care
providers below cost for treatment, so the providers have to charge people with
private insurance more. If the legislation reduces payments for Medicare, that
means people with private insurance will be charged more, according to the
study.

* Taxes on medical devices. The Senate Finance Committee bill raises taxes for
the makers of certain medical devices, particularly the more expensive devices
such as pacemakers and X-ray machines. The report says these taxes also would be
passed on to consumers and result in higher premiums.

DeParle's criticism is that the report doesn't consider other parts of the bill
that would lower costs for consumers. In particular, she points to health
insurance exchanges, online marketplaces where people could comparison-shop for
policies that meet their preferences for coverage and cost.

We read the report and found that DeParle is correct. The report does isolate
aspects of the bill without considering the overall effects. It does not appear
to consider how incentives or administrative efficiencies could result in
reduced costs. The report even acknowledges that.

"The reform packages under consideration have other provisions that we have not
included in this analysis," the report states. "We have not estimated the impact
of the new subsidies on the net insurance cost to households. Also, if other
provisions in health care reform are successful in lowering costs over the long
term, those improvements would offset some of the impacts we have estimated."

This caveat makes the report's findings incomplete, so we're skeptical that the
specific dollar figures it presents as cost increases will reflect actual
outcomes for consumers. However, it is reasonable to think that health insurance
companies will pass on increased costs to consumers to the extent that they are
able, which would drive up premiums. So the report isn't entirely off base, but
it does present its evidence selectively.

The report did not derail Democrats' hopes for a successful vote in the Senate
Finance Committee. The proposal was approved 14-9, with Republican Sen. Olympia
Snowe of Maine joining the Democrats. The next step is for the Senate Finance
bill to be combined with a bill from the Senate Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions (HELP) Committee.

Getting back to our ruling, DeParle criticized the health insurance industry
report on the grounds that it was an incomplete analysis. She said it "ignores
some of the key policies that are part of the Senate Finance Committee bill."
The report itself admits as much. We rate her statement True.

* * *

About this statement:

Published: Tuesday, October 13th, 2009 at 6:29 p.m.

Subjects: Health Care

Sources:

NewsHour, Health Reform Carries Heavy Price, Insurers Claim, Oct. 12, 2009

PricewaterhouseCoopers study, via New York Times, Potential Impact of Health
Reform on the

Cost of Private Health Insurance Coverage, Oct. 13, 2009

New York Times, Senate Panel Clears Health Bill With One G.O.P. Vote, Oct. 13,
2009

Written by: Angie Drobnic Holan

Researched by: Angie Drobnic Holan

Edited by: Bill Adair

Articles about this statement:

Health insurance hijinks!

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2009 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday

ESHOO, THOMPSON REINTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO MAKE HEALTH INSURANCE MORE AFFORDABLE
FOR FAMILIES IN HIGH COST AREAS

LENGTH: 719  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of House of Representative Mike Thompson, M.D., U.S Government has issued
the following news release:

U.S. Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Mike Thompson (CA-5) reintroduced today the
Fair Access to Health Care Act, legislation to expand the eligibility for
premium tax credits for people living in high-cost areas who purchase health
insurance through the federal and state exchanges set up by the Affordable Care
Act (ACA).

"The Affordable Care Act is helping low to middle-income Americans buy private
health insurance with subsidies adjusted to their income level," Eshoo said.
"While this is tremendously helpful to millions of individuals and families,
there are others in high-cost areas, like those in my home district of Silicon
Valley, who cannot benefit because the threshold to qualify for subsidies does
not account for the cost of living."

Eshoo continued, "The Fair Access to Health Act ties health insurance subsidies
to the cost of living of a geographic area instead of to the national federal
poverty level. In doing so, we can expand access to health insurance and improve
our nation's health."

"In many communities in our district the cost of living is far higher than the
national average," said Thompson. "A middle class income means different things
in different parts of the country and that's why the income thresholds set by
the ACA need to take cost of living into account. With qualifying income levels
set across-the-board, many hard working families in high-cost areas like ours
don't qualify for subsides and therefore can't get affordable insurance. This
bill will help make health insurance affordable, no matter where someone lives."

Currently the ACA allows those making between 138 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level (FPL) to qualify for premium tax credits to help them purchase
health insurance through the ACA's exchanges. At this level, an individual
making up to $45,960 and a family of four making up to $94,200 qualify for
premium tax credits.

However, the income threshold used to determine eligibility for these tax
credits doesn't take into account the cost of living for different geographic
areas. A family living in New York City or San Francisco is treated the same as
a family living in a small town in South Carolina or Texas. The Fair Access to
Health Care Act would allow the premium tax credits offered through the ACA to
be increased proportionally based on an area's cost of living.

Under the bill, the federal poverty level threshold will increase proportionally
based on an area's cost of living above the national average cost-of-living. The
cost-of-living is determined using the Census Bureau's Supplemental Poverty
Measure (SPM).

Based on available SPM data, using this calculation:

In the San Francisco-Oakland-Freemont, California Metropolitan Statistical Area
(MSA), a family of four earning up to $125,757 and individuals earning up to
$61,356 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance
through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Vallejo-Fairfield, CA MSA, a family of four earning up to $109,743
and an individual earning up to $53,543 could qualify for premium tax credits to
purchase health insurance through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Napa, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $116,808 and individuals
earning up to$56,990 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health
insurance through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Santa Rosa-Petaluma, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $113,746
and individuals earning up to $55,496 could qualify for premium tax credits to
purchase health insurance through the ACA's exchanges.

Precedent already exists in the ACA for such cost-of-living adjustments. The ACA
accounts for the cost-of-living differences in Alaska and Hawaii by using a
higher income threshold to determine subsidy eligibility. The Fair Access to
Health Care Act would provide similar adjustments to the other 48 states.

Individuals and families from low-cost geographical areas will not be impacted
by this legislation. Those earning up to 400 percent of the FPL would still be
eligible for subsides and no region would see a reduction from their current
subsidy level.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday

Eshoo, Thompson Reintroduce Legislation to Make Health Insurance More Affordable
for Families in High Cost Areas

LENGTH: 717  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of House of Representative Anna G.Eshoo, U.S Government has issued the
following news release:

U.S. Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Mike Thompson (CA-5) reintroduced today the
Fair Access to Health Care Act, legislation to expand the eligibility for
premium tax credits for people living in high-cost areas who purchase health
insurance through the federal and state exchanges set up by the Affordable Care
Act (ACA).

"The Affordable Care Act is helping low to middle-income Americans buy private
health insurance with subsidies adjusted to their income level," Eshoo said.
"While this is tremendously helpful to millions of individuals and families,
there are others in high-cost areas, like those in my home district of Silicon
Valley, who cannot benefit because the threshold to qualify for subsidies does
not account for the cost of living."

Eshoo continued, "The Fair Access to Health Act ties health insurance subsidies
to the cost of living of a geographic area instead of to the national federal
poverty level. In doing so, we can expand access to health insurance and improve
our nation's health."

"In many communities in our district the cost of living is far higher than the
national average," said Thompson. "A middle class income means different things
in different parts of the country and that's why the income thresholds set by
the ACA need to take cost of living into account. With qualifying income levels
set across-the-board, many hard working families in high-cost areas like ours
don't qualify for subsides and therefore can't get affordable insurance. This
bill will help make health insurance affordable, no matter where someone lives."

Currently the ACA allows those making between 138 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level (FPL) to qualify for premium tax credits to help them purchase
health insurance through the ACA's exchanges. At this level, an individual
making up to $45,960 and a family of four making up to $94,200 qualify for
premium tax credits.

However, the income threshold used to determine eligibility for these tax
credits doesn't take into account the cost of living for different geographic
areas. A family living in New York City or San Francisco is treated the same as
a family living in a small town in South Carolina or Texas. The Fair Access to
Health Care Act would allow the premium tax credits offered through the ACA to
be increased proportionally based on an area's cost of living.

Under the bill, the federal poverty level threshold will increase proportionally
based on an area's cost of living above the national average cost-of-living. The
cost-of-living is determined using the Census Bureau's Supplemental Poverty
Measure (SPM).

Based on available SPM data, using this calculation:

In the San Francisco-Oakland-Freemont, California Metropolitan Statistical Area
(MSA), a family of four earning up to $125,757 and individuals earning up to
$61,356 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance
through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Vallejo-Fairfield, CA MSA, a family of four earning up to $109,743
and an individual earning up to $53,543 could qualify for premium tax credits to
purchase health insurance through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Napa, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $116,808 and individuals
earning up to$56,990 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health
insurance through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Santa Rosa-Petaluma, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $113,746
and individuals earning up to $55,496 could qualify for premium tax credits to
purchase health insurance through the ACA's exchanges.

Precedent already exists in the ACA for such cost-of-living adjustments. The ACA
accounts for the cost-of-living differences in Alaska and Hawaii by using a
higher income threshold to determine subsidy eligibility. The Fair Access to
Health Care Act would provide similar adjustments to the other 48 states.

Individuals and families from low-cost geographical areas will not be impacted
by this legislation. Those earning up to 400 percent of the FPL would still be
eligible for subsides and no region would see a reduction from their current
subsidy level.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Seeks Shift in Health Coverage;
He Would Tax Those With Higher-Priced Plans, Give Breaks for Buying Cheaper Ones

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 1047 words


President Bush will propose a deep tax break for Americans who purchase their
own medical insurance and would finance it with an unprecedented tax on a
portion of high-priced health-care plans that workers receive from their
employers, according to the White House.

The initiative, which the president briefly previewed in his radio address
yesterday, has a dual purpose: It would create a financial incentive for the
estimated 46 million to 48 million Americans who lack health insurance to buy
it. And it would rein in the soaring cost of health insurance by encouraging
workers in high-priced plans to seek more modest coverage.

"Today, the tax code unfairly penalizes people who do not get health insurance
through their job," Bush said. "It unwisely encourages workers to choose overly
expensive, gold-plated plans. The result is that insurance premiums rise and
many Americans cannot afford the coverage they need."

The proposal, which Bush plans to fully unveil in Tuesday's State of the Union
address, marks a sharp departure for a president who has been criticized for
advocating tax cuts that disproportionately benefit higher-income Americans.

Administration officials familiar with the plan say it reflects the new
political order in Washington, where Democrats now control both chambers of
Congress. They refuse to characterize the plan as a tax increase because it
raises no new money for the federal government. Instead, it would add a new tax
on employer-provided health-care plans worth more than $15,000 to subsidize
those who buy modestly priced plans out of their pockets.

In addition, they say, the plan is consistent with the president's idea of
increasing access to health insurance through the private market while
encouraging people to be more cost-conscious as they purchase medical-care
coverage.

In his speech Tuesday night, the president will also propose increasing the
federal assistance to states that make private health-care plans available to
low-income or chronically unhealthy people who are uninsured. The administration
hopes to provide waivers under Medicaid  --  the government health insurance
program for the poor that is jointly funded by the federal government and the
states  --  to allow states to redirect money from hospitals and nursing homes
to individuals to help them buy health insurance.

Some states are already moving to offer health-care coverage to the uninsured.
California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) recently announced a plan to provide
coverage to about 6.5 million people, including many recent immigrants, who are
uninsured. If the plan is approved by the state legislature, California would
become the fourth state  --  along with Massachusetts, Vermont and Maine  --  to
offer near-universal health insurance.

Taken together, Bush's proposals are his most ambitious attempt to address the
health-care crisis. In the past, Bush had pushed for limited tax breaks to help
people buy health insurance, but those initiatives never gained traction. He has
also advocated health savings accounts, consumer-driven plans with higher
deductibles and lower premiums than those in traditional insurance.

The new tax measure would attempt to roughly equalize the benefits of people who
have health insurance, whether they buy it or receive it from employers.

The estimated 150 million people covered by employer-provided health insurance
are not taxed on the value of their health insurance, regardless of how much it
is worth. The average employer-provided family health insurance plan costs
$11,500 a year, administration officials said  --  three times what it cost 19
years ago.

Under the president's proposal, workers who receive employer-provided health
insurance would have to pay a tax on the cost of their benefit above $15,000,
the threshold proposed by Bush for the tax break. For instance, if a person's
health insurance costs $16,000, he would pay a tax on the $1,000 difference.

People with families who buy low-cost policies, meanwhile, would have their
taxable income reduced by $15,000, regardless of the cost of the plans and
whether they itemize deductions on their tax returns. The deduction would be
$7,500 for single individuals. The deduction, to be indexed to account for
inflation, would also be extended to those with employer-provided plans, to be
offset by the cost of their coverage.

"This is a huge incentive for the uninsured to get coverage, but, also, the vast
majority of people with employer-provided coverage will benefit as well," a
senior administration official said. "This is essentially a standard deduction
for health care, and the size of the deduction will be significantly higher than
the cost of an average policy."

The Bush administration estimates that 80 percent of people with
employer-provided plans would see their tax liability fall because the deduction
would be larger than the value of their insurance plans.

The idea of ending the taxpayer subsidy for what some in the health industry
call "Cadillac health insurance" policies and using the savings to subsidize
insurance for those who do not have it has been around for at least two decades,
experts said. Underlying the idea is the belief that the current tax structure
essentially adds to the inflationary pressure on health care by subsidizing
expensive health-care plans, making coverage even more unaffordable for those
who do not have it.

But now may be an interesting moment to resurrect the idea because the new
Democratic Congress has vowed not to initiate any new programs that cannot pay
for themselves. Additionally, the idea of imposing a tax on those with generous
coverage to help those without it has a progressive cast that could appeal to
Democrats. "It is being proposed by a Republican, but it's kind of a Democrat
idea," said Robert Laszewski, a health policy consultant. "It should be
something that will interest a lot of Democrats."

Still, some leading Democrats are skeptical of the plan. "It is good that the
president is finally talking about health care," said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.), chairman of the Senate committee that oversees health-care matters.
"I question, however, why the president thinks the way to solve this problem is
through the tax code."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              207 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

Health care costs assailed;
Insurers' lobbyist says true reform is still lacking

BYLINE: Steven H. Foskett Jr., TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. B12

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


A top lobbyist for the health insurance industry told the Worcester Economic
Club's annual meeting last night that while the recently passed federal health
care legislation succeeded in offering all Americans health care, legislators
failed to properly address health care costs.

Karen Ignagni, president and CEO of America's Health Insurance Plans, said that
once people realize that health care reform as it stands is not economically
feasible, politicians will be compelled to take more forceful action. She said
measures in the legislation that institute caps for the health insurance
industry are akin to selling a car at a fixed price, regardless of price
increases in the cost of tires or materials.

"Politicians have got to begin to develop the political will to look at rising
health care costs, what's driving them, and what we can do about it," Ms.
Ignagni told the packed ballroom at the Beechwood Hotel.

Ms. Ignagni said the health insurance industry and other health care groups made
a decision early in the legislative process not to fight change, but to look at
where there could be improvements.

She said the coalition of health care industry groups pledged to take 1 to 1.5
percent off future rates of growth that would have saved $2.2 trillion in health
care costs, but the ensuing Washington deal-making prevented true cost
containment. Ms. Ignagni said about halfway through the year, the health care
reform debate morphed from being about health care reform to being about health
insurance reform. She said it was a lost opportunity to take on the cost issue.

She said politicians may feel a backlash this fall, when cuts to the Medicare
Advantage program start to take effect. She said cuts to Medicare, combined with
new taxes included in the legislation, will come as a shock to some.

Ms. Ignagni said true health care reform will happen when costs are brought
under control.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
Karen Ignagni talks with Richard Burke, left, president of the Worcester
Economic Club, and Pat Hughes, CEO of Fallon Community Health Plan, at a
reception last night.
T&G Staff/STEVE LANAVA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday

ESHOO, THOMPSON REINTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO MAKE HEALTH INSURANCE MORE AFFORDABLE
FOR FAMILIES IN HIGH COST AREAS

LENGTH: 719  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of House of Representative Mike Thompson, M.D., U.S Government has issued
the following news release:

U.S. Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Mike Thompson (CA-5) reintroduced today the
Fair Access to Health Care Act, legislation to expand the eligibility for
premium tax credits for people living in high-cost areas who purchase health
insurance through the federal and state exchanges set up by the Affordable Care
Act (ACA).

"The Affordable Care Act is helping low to middle-income Americans buy private
health insurance with subsidies adjusted to their income level," Eshoo said.
"While this is tremendously helpful to millions of individuals and families,
there are others in high-cost areas, like those in my home district of Silicon
Valley, who cannot benefit because the threshold to qualify for subsidies does
not account for the cost of living."

Eshoo continued, "The Fair Access to Health Act ties health insurance subsidies
to the cost of living of a geographic area instead of to the national federal
poverty level. In doing so, we can expand access to health insurance and improve
our nation's health."

"In many communities in our district the cost of living is far higher than the
national average," said Thompson. "A middle class income means different things
in different parts of the country and that's why the income thresholds set by
the ACA need to take cost of living into account. With qualifying income levels
set across-the-board, many hard working families in high-cost areas like ours
don't qualify for subsides and therefore can't get affordable insurance. This
bill will help make health insurance affordable, no matter where someone lives."

Currently the ACA allows those making between 138 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level (FPL) to qualify for premium tax credits to help them purchase
health insurance through the ACA's exchanges. At this level, an individual
making up to $45,960 and a family of four making up to $94,200 qualify for
premium tax credits.

However, the income threshold used to determine eligibility for these tax
credits doesn't take into account the cost of living for different geographic
areas. A family living in New York City or San Francisco is treated the same as
a family living in a small town in South Carolina or Texas. The Fair Access to
Health Care Act would allow the premium tax credits offered through the ACA to
be increased proportionally based on an area's cost of living.

Under the bill, the federal poverty level threshold will increase proportionally
based on an area's cost of living above the national average cost-of-living. The
cost-of-living is determined using the Census Bureau's Supplemental Poverty
Measure (SPM).

Based on available SPM data, using this calculation:

In the San Francisco-Oakland-Freemont, California Metropolitan Statistical Area
(MSA), a family of four earning up to $125,757 and individuals earning up to
$61,356 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance
through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Vallejo-Fairfield, CA MSA, a family of four earning up to $109,743
and an individual earning up to $53,543 could qualify for premium tax credits to
purchase health insurance through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Napa, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $116,808 and individuals
earning up to$56,990 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health
insurance through the ACA's exchanges.
    In the Santa Rosa-Petaluma, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $113,746
and individuals earning up to $55,496 could qualify for premium tax credits to
purchase health insurance through the ACA's exchanges.

Precedent already exists in the ACA for such cost-of-living adjustments. The ACA
accounts for the cost-of-living differences in Alaska and Hawaii by using a
higher income threshold to determine subsidy eligibility. The Fair Access to
Health Care Act would provide similar adjustments to the other 48 states.

Individuals and families from low-cost geographical areas will not be impacted
by this legislation. Those earning up to 400 percent of the FPL would still be
eligible for subsides and no region would see a reduction from their current
subsidy level.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Japan News

                            October 30, 2015 Friday
                                   S Edition

Patients on welfare benefits receive costlier medical care

SECTION: SOCIETY; Pg. 2; No. 23366

LENGTH: 491 words


The medical costs of people on welfare benefits tend to be higher than those of
subscribers to the national health insurance program with the same diseases,
according to an Osaka University research group.

The group found, for example, that costs for welfare recipients are 1.5 times
higher in cases of treatment for high blood pressure. As people on welfare
benefits are not required to pay their own medical care expenses, some observers
suggest the possibility that medical institutions provide excessive medical care
when treating them. The survey results could impact discussions on proper use of
medical services.

The cost of welfare benefits in Japan exceeds 3.6 trillion yen, and medical
expenditures account for half of it.

The research group tallied and analyzed the medical bills of about 35,000
subscribers to national health insurance and about 5,000 people on welfare
benefits, all of whom live in one city in Osaka Prefecture, dating from 2011 to
May 2015.

The average monthly medical cost per patient on welfare benefits was about
81,000 yen per month, while patients with national health insurance spent about
71,000 yen on average.

By age, for those from 35 to 59, patients on welfare benefits spent 1.7 times as
much as patients with national health insurance, while among those aged 65 or
older there was no difference in spending among the two groups.

By disease type listed on medical bills as well, patients on welfare benefits
spent more on 27 diseases excluding dental and oral disorders and conditions
related to childbearing.

In cases of high blood pressure, the average monthly medical cost per patient on
welfare benefits was 79,000, yen or 50 percent more than the about 53,000 yen
per subscriber to national health insurance. Patients on welfare benefits with
heart diseases such as cardiac infarction spent about 100,000 yen per month on
average, or 30 percent more than patients with national health insurance.

For both diseases, patients on welfare benefits spent more on hospital stays,
examinations and home care than subscribers to health insurance did.

Though patients on welfare benefits had higher medical costs for kidney diseases
over all, there was no cost difference between the two types of patients for
treatments, including artificial dialysis, for which patients are eligible to
receive public subsidies even if they are not welfare recipients.

This finding has led the study group to conclude that the presence of patients'
out-of-pocket costs are likely to affect the amount of medical care
expenditures.

According to Prof. Tomoyuki Takura of Osaka University, who headed the survey,
the results reflect a situation in which medical services are provided without
deep consideration because medical institutions do not need to worry about
patients' out-of-pocket costs, including in cases where the illness is not
serious.

"It is necessary to closely examine and investigate the content of medical
data," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                              May 27, 1991, Monday

Q & A ON THE NEWS

BYLINE: Betty Parham and Tom Bennettpublic; education; business; births;
abortion; costs; health; care; canada; united/states; baseball; personalities

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; SECTION A; PAGE 02

LENGTH: 414 words


Do you have a question about the news - local, national or international? Staff
writers Betty Parham and Tom Bennett will try to get an answer for you? Call
222-2002 and follow the instructions.

Q: When Planned Parenthood refers a woman to a doctor or a clinic for an
abortion, do they get a referral fee from the clinic? - Carmen Spink, Lithonia

A: "Planned Parenthood counsels women free of charge and receives no fee from
any clinic or doctor they refer them to," according to a spokeswoman for the
Planned Parenthood Federation.

Q: I read where the Canadians seem much happier with their health care system
than we are with ours in the United States. What is the difference between
theirs and ours, and how does theirs work? - Kathy Broyles, Atlanta

A: Every Canadian citizen is covered by a government-supported universal health
insurance program, while there are an estimated 35 million Americans who have no
medical coverage. The Canadian system is totally government supported and is
administered by the provinces. The American "market system" is run mainly by
private insurers and supplemented by government-sponsored Medicare and Medicaid
programs. Canadians spend 11 cents of every dollar on health costs; Americans
spend 24 cents of every dollar.

The Canadian system has virtually eliminated costly administrative red tape and
paperwork. A recent study found that the administrative costs and red tape
generated by private American insurance companies will cost more than $ 135
billion in medical expenses this year - enough to cover the cost of providing
medical care to every one of the roughly 35 million Americans without health
insurance. With roughly 80 percent of Americans dissatisfied with the health
care system in the United States, the subject will be a topic in coming
elections. Any change in this country to another type of health care system
would be difficult because of astronomical transition costs and opposition from
the health insurance industry, which would be virtually eliminated under a
Canadian-style progr

Q: Why isn't the uniform number of Babe Ruth, who played for the Boston Braves,
retired along with those of Hank Aaron, Eddie Mathews, Phil Niekro and Warren
Spahn and displayed at Atlanta Stadium? - Ted Bazemore, Atlanta

A: Ruth played briefly with the Boston Braves in the last year of his career,
1935, going to bat only 72 times, and that team did not see fit to retire his
uniform number.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


                              211 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 30, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Small Businesses Also Need Full Health Insurance Deductibility

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 314 words


To the Editor:

How I wish we could accept the blame Prof. Alain Enthoven places on the business
community for paying for health insurance without concern for cost because of
unlimited tax deductions (''A 'Cost-Unconscious' Medical System,'' Op-Ed, July
13). But thousands, if not millions, of small-business owners do not enjoy the
same tax considerations provided corporations. Until just recently, the Treasury
Department was ready to eliminate the 25 percent deduction for health insurance
for sole proprietorships and partnerships. Corporations, on the other hand, are
permitted to deduct 100 percent of the cost.

For years, small-business owners have implored Congress to permit full
deductibility by sole proprietorships and partnerships so that they could, in
turn, afford to provide health insurance to employees and their families and,
indeed, to themselves and their own families.

But that plea has fallen on deaf ears. Indeed, Mr. Enthoven's article appeared
the day after Senator Edward M. Kennedy's Labor Committee approved his
one-size-fits-all mandated health-insurance proposal.

I agree with the professor's conclusion that a Government decree to provide
health insurance won't work. Instead, we should use incentives to provide health
insurance while moving to control health-care costs.

A good first step would be 100 percent deductibility of health insurance costs
for all businesses. Next, the focus should be shifted to the statehouses, where
lawmakers have so generously responded to special interests by mandating
Cadillac-style health-insurance coverage. Maryland, for example, mandates 32
separate coverages for all health plans, even as small-business owners
desperately seek an affordable, bare-bones plan.

JOHN SLOAN JR.
President and Chief Executive Officer
National Federation of Independent Business
  Washington, July 17, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                Copyright (c) 2006 Law and Contemporary Problems
                         Law and Contemporary Problems

                                   Fall, 2006

                          69 Law & Contemp. Prob. 103

LENGTH: 8247 words

WHO PAYS? WHO BENEFITS? DISTRIBUTIONAL ISSUES IN HEALTH CARE: ARTICLE: OF HEAD
TAXES, INCOME TAXES, AND DISTRIBUTIVE JUSTICE IN AMERICAN HEALTH CARE

NAME: Lawrence Zelenak *

BIO: * Pamela B. Gann Professor of Law, Duke University School of Law.

TEXT:
 [*103]

   I

   Introduction

 This response to Clark Havighurst's and Barak Richman's powerful indictment of
the distributional effects of the American health care financing system n1
addresses two respects in which they have somewhat overstated their claims.
First, they argue that the current system imposes an implicit head tax on all
persons with employer-provided health insurance, the proceeds of which are used
largely to provide health care for the uninsured, and that the result of this
implicit tax-and-transfer system is a regressive redistribution of income.
However, this response explains that once one considers the distribution of the
benefits financed by the tax, as well as the distribution of the tax burden, the
overall system is not necessarily regressive. Indeed, it may well serve to
decrease income inequality. Second, they criticize the income-tax exclusion for
employer-provided health insurance as "aiding the moral-hazard enemy." n2 This
response, however, argues that the core of the current income-tax treatment of
health insurance - the exclusion from the tax base of the value of basic
employer-provided health insurance - makes good sense from a tax-internal policy
perspective and is not a health-policy culprit. Other aspects of the current
income-tax treatment of health care expenditures - in particular, the exclusion
of the value of non-basic employer-provided health insurance, the tax bias
against non-employer-provided health insurance, and the tax bias against
health-insurance cost sharing - are both bad tax policy and bad health policy,
and should be reformed. The core of the exclusion, however, should be retained.

   Both of these comments are in the nature of friendly amendments. Even with
the view advanced here that the implicit head tax is not necessarily regressive
in its overall effect, the unmasking of the head tax suggests the transfers it
makes possible should be financed by a tax keyed to ability to pay. Similarly,
[*104]  even with the view that the core of the income tax exclusion is
justified, much of the income-tax treatment of health care costs is in dire need
of reform.

   II

   The Distributional Effects of the Health-Insurance Head Tax

 According to Havighurst and Richman, hospitals take advantage of their
insurance-enhanced market power by charging insurers substantially more than the
cost of caring for insured patients, and the insurers pass on the extra costs to
their insureds as "a "head tax,' which falls on individuals [with
employer-provided health insurance] without appreciable correlation to wealth,
income, or ability to pay." n3 The hospitals use these excess payments to
finance a range of unprofitable activities, most notably, research and
development, and providing uncompensated care to the uninsured. n4 Because
low-and high-income insureds pay (more or less) the same amount of this
quasi-tax, rather than paying in proportion to income or wealth, Havighurst and
Richman conclude that this system of financing health care for the uninsured is
regressive. n5

   Much of this analysis is correct. The identification of the disguised head
tax is persuasive, and it is almost certainly true that lawmakers designing an
explicit tax to finance health care for the uninsured would not have chosen a
head tax. n6 However, the implicit tax-and-transfer system they describe is not
necessarily regressive. It is, of course, common usage to describe an income tax
as regressive if taxpayers with higher incomes pay a lower percentage of their
income in tax than do taxpayers with lower incomes. It is also common to
describe a head tax as regressive with respect to an income base, because a head
tax expressed as a percentage of income obviously declines as income increases.
It is a doubtful practice, however, to apply a distributional label to a tax
system without regard to the distribution of the benefits financed by the tax. A
tax that would be labeled regressive under the usual tax-viewed-in-isolation
approach may look very different when considered together with the use of the
tax's proceeds. Even a head tax may be part of a progressive tax-and-transfer
program. Suppose, for example, a society of just two persons. Rich has annual
income of $ 100,000, and Poor has annual income of $ 20,000. Each person is
subject to a $ 10,000 head tax, the entire $ 20,000 proceeds of which are
transferred (as a cash transfer, as in-kind benefits, or both) to Poor. The
overall effect of the system is progressively redistributive, increasing Poor's
after-tax-and-transfer income  [*105]  to $ 30,000, and decreasing Rich's to $
90,000. Viewed in isolation, the head tax may be labeled regressive, but it is
part of an undeniably progressive system.

   Havighurst and Richman acknowledge that a complete distributional analysis
requires consideration of the benefits financed by the tax, but they summarily
conclude that "the manner in which the proceeds are used [does not] appear to
rectify the apparent regressivity" of the tax itself. n7 It is not clear,
however, that this conclusion is correct. Of course, the distributional effects
of the system described by Havighurst and Richman - in which an implicit head
tax on those with employer-provided health insurance finances health care for
the uninsured, as well as research and development (R&D) - are considerably more
complicated than in the hypothetical world of Rich and Poor. For the moment, set
aside the portion of the quasi-head tax used to finance R&D and consider only
the portion of the head tax used to finance health care for the uninsured.
Viewed in isolation, imposing a tax in the same dollar amount on low-and
high-income workers with employer-sponsored health insurance is indeed
regressive. On the other hand, transferring money from a higher-income group
(those with employer-provided health insurance) to a lower-income group (those
without health insurance) is progressive. n8

   How might one determine which effect predominates? The most common measure of
the degree of inequality of a distribution of income is the Gini coefficient. n9
The Gini coefficient is most easily explained graphically.

    [*106]
Figure 1: The Line of Equality and a Hypothetical Lorenz Curve

[SEE FIGURE 1 IN ORIGINAL]

 The horizontal (x) axis in Figure 1 represents percentages of the population,
while the vertical (y) axis represents percentages of the total income of all
members of the population. Any possible income distribution within a society can
be indicated by a Lorenz curve, showing for the lowest x% of the population the
y% of total income in the society belonging to that lowest x%. n10 The straight
line, running from the lower left to the upper right, is the Lorenz curve of a
perfectly equal distribution of income, under which the lowest x% of the
population always possesses exactly x% of the total income within the society.
Any inequality of income distribution will produce a convex Lorenz curve,
touching the line of equality at 0% and 100% of the population and below the
line of equality at all other points. The Gini coefficient is the area between a
society's Lorenz curve and the line of equality, expressed as a percentage of
the total area underneath the line of equality. Thus, if the area between the
line of equality and the Lorenz curve is A, and the area underneath the Lorenz
curve is B, the Gini coefficient is A/(A+B). The higher the coefficient, the
greater the inequality of the income distribution. At the extremes, the Gini
coefficient for a society with a perfectly equal distribution of income would be
zero, and the coefficient for a society in which all the income is possessed by
the single richest member would be one. Whether a tax-and-transfer system is
progressive or regressive can be measured by comparing the Gini coefficient of
the society in the absence of the tax-and-transfer system with the Gini
coefficient taking the tax-and-transfer system into account.

   Applying this sort of analysis to the implicit head tax identified by
Havighurst and Richman would be a massive undertaking. It would require detailed
[*107]  information on the income distributions of persons with and without
employer-provided health insurance, on the amount of the implicit head tax, and
on the distribution of the health care benefits funded by the head tax. However,
an extremely simplified model, not completely divorced from reality, can give
some sense of the possible distributional effects of the quasi-head tax and the
benefits it finances.

   Suppose society consists of eight people with employer-provided health
insurance and four without. In the absence of the quasi-head tax, the incomes of
the people with health insurance would be $ 200,000, $ 150,000, $ 100,000, $
75,000, $ 75,000, $ 50,000, $ 50,000, and $ 25,000. In the absence of benefits
funded by the head tax, the incomes of the people without health insurance would
be $ 50,000, $ 25,000, $ 25,000, and $ 10,000. n11 Taking all twelve people into
account, the society has a Gini coefficient of 0.405689. n12 Now suppose a $
4000 benefit for each of the four uninsured persons is financed by a $ 2000 head
tax imposed on each of the eight insured persons. After the tax-and-transfer
system has its effect, the insured persons have incomes of $ 198,000, $ 148,000,
$ 98,000, $ 73,000, $ 73,000, $ 48,000, $ 48,000, and $ 23,000, while the
uninsureds have incomes of $ 54,000, $ 29,000, $ 29,000, and $ 14,000. The Gini
coefficient of this new income distribution is 0.392515. The lower coefficient,
after tax and transfer, indicates that the head tax and the benefits it funds
have decreased the inequality in the overall distribution of income. On these
hypothetical numbers, the effect of a system of the type criticized as
regressive by Havighurst and Richman is mildly progressive. To be sure, the head
tax in isolation would be regressive. If the government took $ 2000 from each of
the eight insured persons and tossed the money into the ocean, the post-tax Gini
coefficient for the population consisting of just the eight insureds would show
an increase in the inequality of the income distribution. n13 This effect is
more than offset, however, by the equality-promoting effect of transferring
income from the more-affluent group to the less-affluent group.

   The implicit head tax-and-transfer system described and critiqued by
Havighurst and Richman does not necessarily reduce income inequality. With some
effort, it is possible to construct an income distribution of insured and
uninsured persons for which a particular head tax-and-transfer system would
increase  [*108]  inequality. n14 It is also possible that the portion of the
head tax used to finance R&D increases inequality. n15 However, Havighurst and
Richman too quickly assume that the quasi-head tax they decry is regressive.
When the head tax is considered together with the benefits it funds, it is quite
plausible that the head tax is part of a system that reduces income inequality.

   The above analysis assumes that the proper comparison to the current system
of implicit head taxes and health care transfers to the uninsured is a world in
which there are no head taxes and in which the uninsured receive no transfers,
either going without health care or somehow paying for it themselves. Of course,
starting from a different baseline would change the analysis. If the alternative
to the current system were financing the same health care transfers to the
uninsured by means of an income tax (with either a flat rate or graduated rates)
on persons with health insurance, then obviously head-tax financing is
regressive compared with that alternative. Havighurst and Richman adopt this
perspective when they claim that high-income insureds benefit from the head tax
"by having the needs of the uninsured ... met by means other than equitable
taxes." n16 It makes more sense, however, to perform the distributional analysis
of the current tax-and-transfer system by comparing it with the absence of any
such system, rather than by comparing it with an alternative system somehow
selected from among an infinite number of possible alternative systems.
Therefore, Havighurst and Richman's conclusion that the current system is
necessarily regressive is unwarranted.

   At a different level, however, their view of the public-policy implications
of their head-tax analysis is correct. Suppose the uninsured currently receive
no health care, but society has just now decided that persons with health
insurance are obligated somehow to finance health care for the uninsured. If the
financing took the form of an explicit tax, it seems overwhelmingly likely that
the public and Congress would think the burdens of the tax should be distributed
among insureds not simply on a per capita basis, but with some sensitivity to
their differing abilities to pay. n17 Based on how Congress has decided to
distribute other burdens, the explicit tax might take the form of a mildly
progressive income tax, or perhaps something less progressive than that but
still far from a head tax.

    [*109]  It is almost inconceivable that Congress would come any closer to a
head tax than the flat rate (2.9%) wage tax currently used to finance Medicare.
n18 The Medicare tax can itself be described, in isolation, as regressive with
respect to income. Although its rate is flat, and although it applies to all
wages (rather than only to wages up to the Social Security wage tax ceiling n19
), the exclusion of investment income from the tax base means the rate of tax as
a percentage of all income tends to fall as income rises. Nevertheless, income
inequality clearly would be reduced (that is, the Gini coefficient would fall)
if the benefits currently financed by the disguised head tax were financed
instead by a tax modeled on the Medicare tax - as might happen if the existence
of the head tax became common knowledge.

   Havighurst and Richman have performed an important service by unmasking the
implicit head tax. The consequence of their expose might be - and should be -
the replacement of the implicit head tax with an explicit tax falling more
heavily on those with more ability to pay. The accurate claim, however, is not
that the current tax-and-transfer system is clearly regressive in its overall
effects, but that even if it is progressive it is not progressive enough.

   III

   The Role of the Income-Tax Treatment of Employer-Provided Health Insurance

   A. The Treatment of Health Insurance Under an Ideal Income Tax

 Section 106 of the Internal Revenue Code excludes from an employee's gross
income the value of "employer-provided coverage under an accident or health
plan." Havighurst and Richman are critical of this provision for "aiding the
moral-hazard enemy." n20 Although it is true that some important aspects of the
current income-tax treatment of health insurance are difficult or impossible to
defend, excluding the value of basic health insurance from the tax base
constitutes sound tax policy and sound health care policy. Under an ideal (that
is, normative) income tax, the treatment of health insurance would differ from
current law in several significant ways, but it would retain the core of the
exclusion for employer-provided health insurance. Furthermore, a revised version
of the income-tax exclusion would not be vulnerable to the criticisms Havighurst
and Richman level at current law.

   Most tax-policy analysts agree that differences in individuals' tax
liabilities (and thus in their shares of the costs of government) should reflect
those individuals'  [*110]  differing abilities to pay. n21 That is, of course,
the beginning rather than the end of tax-policy arguments, because it is often
debatable how differences in individuals' situations affect their abilities to
pay tax. On one point, however, there is widespread agreement: no one has any
ability to pay tax on the amount of income necessary to support life at a level
of basic decency. Ability to pay is generated only by "clear income" - the
amount of income a person has in excess of subsistence needs. n22 If the poverty
threshold is, say, $ 15,000, then no one - not even Bill Gates or Warren Buffett
- should be required to pay tax on his first $ 15,000 of income. Historically,
Congress has agreed with this view. The combination of the standard deduction
and the personal and dependency exemptions is designed to approximate the
official poverty threshold, n23 thus excluding the cost of subsistence from the
tax bases of taxpayers at all income levels. Although in recent years Congress
has denied the benefit of personal and dependency exemptions to taxpayers near
the top of the income distribution, this appears to have been a matter of
political expediency - a technique for disguising a marginal tax-rate increase
for affluent taxpayers - rather than of changed principles. n24

   Clear-income analysis provides a non-subsidy justification for excluding the
individualized cost of basic medical care from each person's tax base. The costs
of basic medical care - both basic health-insurance coverage and necessary care
not covered by insurance - obviously are costs of subsistence. Thus, just as the
costs of basic food, clothing, shelter, and transportation should be excluded
from the tax base, so should the cost of basic medical care. In the same way
[*111]  that personal and dependency exemptions make the tax system sensitive to
differences in the cost of subsistence attributable to differences in family
size, a tax allowance for the cost of basic health insurance should be sensitive
to age-and sex-based differences in the cost of such insurance. n25 Such
differences in the cost of basic health insurance coverage are significant: the
cost of insurance for persons in some age-and-sex categories can be several
times the cost for persons in other categories. n26 If the cost of basic health
insurance for a twenty-five-year-old man is a small fraction of the cost of
basic coverage for a woman of childbearing age, or for a sixty-five-year-old of
either sex, then a universal allowance of a fixed dollar amount, akin to the
standard deduction, must be too generous to the young man or inadequate for the
others. n27 To the extent that the income-tax exclusion of employer-provided
health insurance removes the age-and sex-  [*112]  adjusted cost of basic
medical care from the tax base, it is - like the standard deduction and the
personal and dependency exemptions - part of the definition of the ideal income
tax base. n28 Thus, if a "subsidy" is a provision included in the Internal
Revenue Code to accomplish some goal other than adjusting tax liability to
reflect ability to pay (such as encouraging particular types of consumption
behavior), then because the health insurance exclusion is justified by
ability-to-pay concerns internal to the tax system, it should not be understood
as a "subsidy." n29

   B. Health Insurance and the Actual Income Tax

 Although the "clear income" approach provides a non-subsidy justification for
the exclusion of basic employer-provided health insurance, in some respects
current tax treatment of health insurance and other medical costs differs
significantly from the dictates of clear-income analysis. The implications of
clear-income analysis are (1) that all costs of basic health care should be
excluded from the tax base and (2) that no costs of more-than-basic care should
be excluded. Current tax treatment is insufficiently generous on the first count
and overly generous on the second.

   On the first count, current law is insufficiently generous because most costs
of basic health care not covered by employer-provided insurance are not excluded
from the tax base. People who purchase health insurance outside of the
employment context may, in theory, deduct their premiums as medical expenses
under section 213, but the deduction is allowed only to the extent total medical
expenses exceed 7.5% of adjusted gross income (AGI), and even that excess is
deductible only if the taxpayer itemizes rather than claiming the standard
deduction. n30 In addition, the 7.5%-of-AGI floor applies to basic medical
expenses not covered by insurance (co-payments, deductibles, expenses for
treatments  [*113]  not covered by a taxpayer's insurance, and all expenses of
uninsured taxpayers). Under an ideal income tax implementing the clear-income
concept, however, all such expenses should be deductible in full. n31 Although
clear-income analysis suggests that the tax favoritism for employer-provided
health insurance (that is, favoritism relative to other health insurance and
health costs not covered by insurance) is inappropriate, it does not follow that
the exclusion is a subsidy. Rather, the failure to provide equivalent treatment
for other health care costs is a sort of penalty, or anti-subsidy.

   On the second count, however, current law is overly generous because it
extends the exclusion for employer-provided health insurance beyond the value of
basic insurance. n32 Under current law, the entire value of employer-provided
health insurance is excluded from income, even if the insurance covers, for
example, the excess cost of a single-bed hospital room over a two-bed hospital
room, longer-than-medically-necessary hospital stays, the cost of experimental
treatments, or the cost of having a "concierge" primary-care physician. n33
Although drawing the line between basic and more-than-basic health care would
not be easy, the failure to make any attempt to do so under current law means
the existing exclusion for employer-provided health insurance cannot be fully
justified by clear-income analysis. n34

   C. Moving the Actual Toward the Ideal

 The ideal income tax treatment of health insurance and other health care costs
can be briefly stated: The costs of basic health care, and only the costs of
basic health care, should be excluded from the tax base. A person who receives
employer-sponsored health insurance should be able to exclude the value of basic
coverage (however high or low that value happens to be in light of the person's
age, sex, and any other relevant attributes n35), and should be able to deduct
any costs of basic health care not covered by insurance (including deductibles
[*114]  and co-payments). To the extent the employer-sponsored insurance goes
beyond basic coverage, that value should be included in the employee's tax base.
A person who purchases health insurance outside of the employment context should
be allowed to deduct the cost of basic coverage and the cost of any basic health
care not covered by insurance. Although a move to this regime certainly would
constitute a significant change from current law - enlarging the tax base in one
respect while shrinking it in another - it would retain the exclusion for basic
employer-provided health insurance at the core of current law.

   Would this revised tax treatment avoid the powerful criticisms aimed by
Havighurst and Richman at current law? One complaint - which, as Havighurst and
Richman note, has been made by many commentators - concerns the "greater
apparent value [of this tax subsidy] to higher-bracket taxpayers and those with
the costliest coverage - frequently one and the same." n36 There are two parts
to this complaint. First, when a high-bracket taxpayer and a lower-bracket
taxpayer receive identical health insurance and exclude the same amount from
tax, the tax reduction - and hence the subsidy - is greater for the high-bracket
taxpayer. Second, affluent taxpayers frequently receive better and costlier
employer-provided coverage, and thus are able to exclude more value from the tax
base. Havighurst and Richman do not place much emphasis on these criticisms, n37
but the criticisms merit attention here because of their popularity with other
commentators.

   The first part of the complaint is the "upside-down subsidy" critique of
health care tax policy, a critique closely associated with Stanley Surrey. n38
According to this critique, it is unfair that a $ 1000 exclusion or deduction
reduces the tax bill of a wealthy taxpayer in the thirty-five-percent bracket by
$ 350, while a $ 1000 exclusion or deduction reduces the tax bill of a
middle-class taxpayer in the fifteen-percent bracket by only $ 150. This is a
powerful objection when the deduction or exclusion in question is a subsidy, but
it has no application to deductions and exclusions that are an integral part of
the definition of the normative "clear income" tax base. Like the standard
deduction and personal and dependency exemptions, the exclusion of the value of
basic health-insurance coverage is not a subsidy at all, and so cannot be an
upside-down subsidy. n39 If one accepts the argument that basic health care is
not part of the normative  [*115]  tax base because it generates no ability to
pay tax, then it makes no more sense to say that the exclusion of such health
care from the base of a tax with progressive marginal rates disproportionately
benefits the rich than it would to say that the failure to tax people on
nonexistent income disproportionately benefits the rich. In a footnote,
Havighurst and Richman seem to agree with this view: "Characterizing the
exclusion ... as a "subsidy' might not be appropriate at all, since a taxing
authority might simply find it fairer to tax individuals' income only after
certain basic necessities were provided for. But the subsidy here is decidedly
not limited to ... only basic coverage." n40 Their point seems to be that any
exclusion for health-insurance coverage in excess of basic coverage is a subsidy
and so is vulnerable to the upside-down critique of tax subsidies embodied in
exclusions and deductions in an income tax with progressive marginal rates. This
is correct, but the point would be moot under the suggested revision of the
health-insurance exclusion. As for the second part of the first complaint - that
affluent taxpayers are able to exclude from income the entire value of the
luxury-style health insurance they receive from their employers, while others
are able to exclude only the lower value of their bare-bones insurance - this is
also true. n41 Again, however, the point would be moot under the proposed
limitation of the exclusion to basic health-insurance coverage.

   Havighurst and Richman emphasize a different criticism of current law: that
it "aids the moral-hazard enemy" n42 by discouraging cost sharing (that is,
deductibles and co-payments) which could combat moral hazard. The problem is
that employer-provided health insurance is excluded from the tax base no matter
how large its value, whereas cost-sharing payments generally must be made with
after-tax dollars. As noted earlier, cost-sharing payments are potentially
eligible for deduction as medical expenses under I.R.C. §213, but medical
expenses are deductible only to the extent total expenses exceed 7.5% of a
taxpayer's AGI, and even that excess is deductible only if the taxpayer itemizes
rather than claim the standard deduction. In practice, the vast majority of cost
-sharing payments do not qualify for deduction under I.R.C. §213. So, for
example, if an employer offers its employees health insurance worth $ 5000 per
year, with no cost sharing, each employee will exclude the entire $ 5000 from
gross income; but if the employer offered employees health insurance worth $
4000 per year, with expected annual cost-sharing payments of $ 1000, only $ 4000
of an employee's health care would be excluded from the tax base. The  [*116]
results are a tax-induced preference for health insurance with little cost
sharing, and increased moral hazard with all its attendant woes.

   As Havighurst and Richman note, the tax bias against cost sharing was
substantially reduced by the introduction in 2003 of favorable tax treatment for
"health savings accounts" (HSAs). n43 Under the new rules, a taxpayer with a
"high deductible health plan" (HDHP) may make tax-deductible contributions to an
HSA, and the contributions may be used to pay the taxpayer's cost-sharing
expenses. n44 Limiting these rules to taxpayers with HDHPs is significant
because an HDHP must feature an annual deductible of at least $ 1000 in the case
of self-only coverage. n45 With the introduction of HSAs and HDHPs, equally
favorable tax treatment is available for employer-provided health insurance with
no cost sharing and for employer-provided insurance with high cost sharing, n46
but insurance with moderate cost sharing remains disfavored. Of course, even
with the tax bias against HDHPs eliminated, non-tax resistance to high levels of
cost sharing may persist. In fact, employers and employees have not responded to
the 2003 legislation by rushing to adopt HDHPs and HSAs, and no rush is expected
in the next few years. n47

   Although not mentioned by Havighurst and Richman, there is another way in
which taxpayers may pay their cost-sharing expenses with before-tax dollars. At
the beginning of a year, an employee may agree to a salary reduction of a
specified number of dollars in exchange for the employer's agreement to
contribute an equal amount to the employee's "health flexible spending
arrangement" (health FSA). Cost-sharing expenses incurred by the employee during
the year can then be paid out of the health FSA, with before-tax dollars. n48
The  [*117]  health FSA is subject to a use-it-or-lose-it rule, however. If the
taxpayer is lucky (or unlucky) enough to incur lower cost-sharing expenses than
the amount of the salary reduction, the unused amount of the FSA is lost to the
taxpayer forever. Although hard data are not readily available, it is generally
assumed that utilization of health FSAs is not particularly high, in part
because taxpayers are deterred by the use-it-or-lose-it rule, n49 in part
because of the difficulty of jumping through all the required administrative
hoops, and in part because many employers (concerned about their own
administrative burden) do not offer the option. n50

   The bottom line is, although HSAs and FSAs significantly decrease the
traditional tax bias against cost sharing, they certainly do not eliminate it -
in particular with respect to insurance with moderate levels of cost sharing,
and employees who are put off by the risk and burdens associated with FSAs. The
simple and tidy solution, of course, would be to exclude from the tax base cost
-sharing payments incurred in connection with basic health-insurance coverage.
This would mean the exclusion of employer-paid cost sharing and, more
significantly, the deductibility - by itemizers and nonitemizers alike, and
without the application of any percentage-of-AGI floor - of all cost-sharing
expenses. That is what is called for by clear-income analysis, and it would
fully eliminate tax discrimination among various levels of cost sharing.

   Although eliminating the tax bias against cost sharing would lessen moral
hazard, Havighurst and Richman note that significant cost sharing may have
unattractive distributional effects. When rank-and-file employees and
higher-income employees are included in the same pool of employer-provided
insurance and provided with nominally the same insurance coverage, conditioning
eligibility for insurance benefits on a willingness to incur cost-sharing
expenses  [*118]  is likely to disproportionately discourage rank-and-file
employees from seeking medical care, with the result that they receive fewer
dollars of benefits than do higher-income employees. n51 This suggests a
damned-if-you-do-damned-if-you-don't cost-sharing dilemma for employer-provided
health insurance. With low cost sharing there is severe moral hazard, but with
higher cost sharing there is inequity in the distribution of insurance benefits.
Havighurst and Richman offer a way out, however: combine significant cost
sharing with the separation of employees into different insurance pools by
income groups. n52

   Another route to the same goal would be to combine significant cost sharing
with income-homogenous health-insurance pools outside of the employment context.
That approach is not currently practical because of the tax favoritism for
employer-provided health insurance over health insurance from other sources, but
that favoritism would be removed under the normative approach to the taxation of
health insurance proposed here (that is, creating a deduction, available to both
itemizers and nonitemizers, and not subject to a percentage-of-AGI floor, for
the cost of any purchased basic health insurance). Adoption of this proposal
would be sufficient to rescue the tax system from Havighurst and Richman's
indictment. The tax system would no longer create a bias in favor of
employer-provided insurance, and thus would provide no particular encouragement
to the creation of income-heterogeneous, employment-related insurance groups.

   Of course, eliminating the income tax as part of the problem would not
necessarily make it part of the solution. Merely removing the income-tax bias in
favor of employment-related groups might not cause a flowering of
income-homogenous insurance groups, especially considering that inertia would
favor the existing income-heterogeneous, employment-related groups. Some
additional governmental push might be needed if income-homogenous groups are to
flourish. One possibility would be to deny the exclusion of basic health
insurance (employer-provided or otherwise) from the tax base in the case of
income-heterogeneous insurance groups. Various non-tax regulatory solutions are
also imaginable.

   The remaining count in Havighurst and Richman's indictment of the health
insurance exclusion is that it encourages rank-and-file workers to devote too
much of their overall consumption opportunities to health care. n53 Because of
the tax laws, health insurance is received as a fringe benefit of employment,
implicitly paid for by a reduction in cash wages. Because the wage reduction is
almost invisible to the typical worker, the worker does not realize how much he
is really paying for health insurance, and so he purchases (so to speak) more
insurance than he would choose if he received all his compensation in cash and
had to buy his health insurance with cash. As Havighurst and Richman explain,
[*119]  "Precisely because their costs are hidden from them, employees are more
likely to demand and expect expensive health care even when their true interest
would be served by economizing." n54 The culprit here is not the exclusion of
employer-provided health insurance from the tax base; rather, it is the
inconsistency between the tax treatment of employer-provided insurance and
insurance obtained from other sources. By providing equivalent treatment for all
basic health insurance regardless of source, the proposed revision of the tax
laws would eliminate the problem identified by Havighurst and Richman - and it
would do so without changing the current tax treatment of employer-provided
basic health insurance.

   To sum up, Havighurst and Richman offer a powerful critique of the current
income-tax treatment of health insurance as the cause of many of the worst
problems with American health care today. It does not follow from their
critique, however, that the income-tax exclusion for employer-provided health
insurance should be repealed. An ideal income tax, designed to align tax
liability with ability to pay, would exclude the cost of basic health care from
the tax base. Implementing this ideal would broaden the tax base in one way (by
eliminating the exclusion for more-than-basic employer-provided insurance) and
narrow it in another (by allowing deductions for purchased insurance and for
cost-sharing expenses), but it would retain the core of the current exclusion.
This revised version of the exclusion also would eliminate all the features of
current law responsible for the effects to which Havighurst and Richman object.
Interestingly, the recent report of the President's Advisory Panel on Federal
Tax Reform would reform the income-tax treatment of health insurance very much
along the lines of the ideal income-tax model. n55 In order to eliminate the
favorable tax treatment of more-than-basic employer-provided health insurance,
the Panel would limit the exclusion to $ 5000 of insurance value in the case of
self-only coverage and to $ 11,500 in the case of family coverage. n56 And to
eliminate the tax bias in favor of employer-provided health insurance over
[*120]  health insurance purchased in the individual market, the Panel also
would allow a deduction (not subject to any percentage-of-AGI floor) of the cost
of such insurance (up to $ 5000 or $ 11,500). n57

   IV

   Conclusion

 Havighurst and Richman have made an important contribution by uncovering hidden
ways in which the current system of health care financing, including the
income-tax treatment of employer-provided health insurance, has disturbing
distributional effects. Their analysis deserves to play a leading role in the
national health care financing debate. As stated at the outset, the two caveats
offered here are in the nature of friendly amendments. Viewed together with the
health care for the uninsured that it finances, the implicit head tax on those
with employer-provided insurance may not be regressive, but it is certainly not
progressive enough. And although the exclusion for employer-provided basic
health insurance would not be objectionable under a new-and-improved version of
the income tax, the treatment of health insurance under the current income tax
is indeed in need of reform.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewTax LawFederal Income Tax
ComputationDependent & Personal Exemptions (IRC secs. 151-153)Tax LawState &
Local TaxesIncome TaxGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Clark C. Havighurst & Barak Richman, Distributive Injustice(s) in American
Health Care, 69 Law & Contemp. Probs. 7, 7-82 (Autumn 2006).





n2.  Id. at 36.





n3.  Id. at 28.





n4.  Id. at 22-25. Other important instances of subsidized activities include
providing services under Medicare and Medicaid (to the extent the costs of
rendering services exceed allowable payments) and complying with the unfunded
federal mandate imposed on any hospital that maintains an emergency room and
accepts Medicare payments to treat emergency room patients without regard to
ability to pay. 42 U.S.C. §1395dd(a) (2000).





n5.  Havighurst & Richman, supra note 1, at 26-27.





n6.  Id. at 28-29.





n7.  Id. at 28.





n8.  On the higher income levels of those with health insurance, as a group,
than those without health insurance, see U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population
Reports, P60-229, Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance Coverage in the United
States: 2004, at 25 tbl.7 (2005) (reporting that of persons living in households
with less than $ 25,000 of income, 24.3% lacked health insurance coverage in
2004; that percentage fell to 20.0% for persons in households with income of $
25,000 to $ 49,999, to 13.3% for persons in households with income of $ 50,000
to $ 74,999, and to 8.4% for persons in households with income of $ 75,000 or
more).





n9.  Corrado Gini, Measurement of Inequality of Incomes, 31 Econ. J. 124 (1921).
For a description of alternative measures of inequality (including the Theil
index), with a discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of the various
measures, see Julie A. Litchfield, World Bank PovertyNet, Inequality: Methods
and Tools (1999), www1.worldbank.org/prem/poverty/inequal/methods/ litchfie.pdf.
The example in the text employs the Gini coefficient because it is both the most
commonly used and the most intuitive of the inequality measures.





n10.  See Max Lorenz, Methods of Measuring the Concentration of Wealth, 9 Pub.
of the Am. Stat. Ass'n 209, 217-18 (1905).





n11.  Although those without health insurance are poorer as a group, as in the
real world there is some overlap in the income ranges of those with and without
insurance. See Census Bureau, supra note 8, at 25.





n12.  All Gini coefficient calculations in this paper were done by the author,
with the use of the Resa Corporation's Gini coefficient calculator. P. Wessa,
Office for Research Development and Education, Free Statistics Software Version
1.1.18 (2006), http://www.wessa.net.





n13.  The Gini coefficient for an eight-person population with incomes of $
200,000, $ 150,000, $ 100,000, $ 75,000, $ 75,000, $ 50,000, $ 50,000, and $
25,000, is 0.323276. The Gini coefficient for an eight-person population with
incomes of $ 198,000, $ 148,000, $ 98,000, $ 73,000, $ 73,000, $ 48,000, $
48,000, and $ 23,000 is 0.330571.





n14.  For example, suppose a society has three insured persons with initial
incomes of $ 200,000, $ 25,000, and $ 20,000, and one uninsured person with an
initial income of $ 30,000. The Gini coefficient of the four-person society is
0.495455. If each insured person is taxed $ 2000 in order to finance a $ 6000
benefit for the uninsured person, the resulting Gini coefficient (for incomes of
$ 198,000, $ 23,000, $ 18,000, and $ 36,000) is 0.502727. The example is a bit
rigged, however, because $ 4000 of the $ 6000 in the tax-and-transfer system is
taken from people who are poorer - even before the transfer - than the person to
whom that $ 4000 is transferred.





n15.  This depends, of course, on the assumptions one makes about the
distribution of the benefits of R&D.





n16.  Havighurst & Richman, supra note 1, at 29.





n17.  Havighurst and Richman are of this view: "Any projects that public
lawmakers would be willing to support would almost certainly be financed in less
regressive ways [than a head tax]." Id.





n18.  The 2.9% rate is the sum of the 1.45% tax imposed on employees, I.R.C.
§3101(b)(6) (2005), and the 1.45% tax imposed on employers, I.R.C. §3111(b)(6)
(2005).





n19.  See I.R.C. §3121(a)(1) (2005) (limiting the imposition of the employer and
employee taxes to finance Social Security benefits to the "contribution and
benefit base").





n20.  Havighurst & Richman, supra note 1, at 36.





n21.  See, e.g., Joel Slemrod & Jon Bakija, Taxing Ourselves 62-64 (3d ed.
2004). But see Liam Murphy & Thomas Nagel, The Myth of Ownership (2002) (arguing
that distributive justice should be concerned with the distribution of after-tax
income, rather than with the distribution of tax burdens relative to pre-tax
income).





n22.  See, e.g., Harold M. Groves, Federal Tax Treatment of the Family 10
(1963); Gerard M. Brannon & Elliott R. Morss, The Tax Allowance for Dependents:
Deductions Versus Credits, 26 Nat'l Tax J. 599 (1973); Theodore P. Seto & Sande
L. Buhai, Tax and Disability: Ability to Pay and the Taxation of Difference, 154
U. Pa. L. Rev. 1053, 1083 (May 2006) ("There appears to be widespread consensus
that ... some initial portion of every taxpayer's income should not be subject
to income tax."); Lawrence Zelenak, Children and the Income Tax, 49 Tax L. Rev.
359, 361-72 (1994) (discussing the history and implications of the clear-income
concept).





n23.  See S. Rep. No. 99-313, at 31-33 (1986), as reprinted in 1986-3 C.B. 31-33
(indicating that one goal of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 was to prevent the
imposition of the income tax on families at or below the poverty level). Since
1986, the dependency exemption amount has been nearly identical with the
increase in the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) poverty threshold
caused by the addition of one family member. For 2006, for example, the $ 3300
exemption amount differs by only $ 100 from the $ 3400 amount in the HHS
guidelines. Rev. Proc. 2005-70, 2005-2 C.B. 979, §3.17; Annual Update of the HHS
Poverty Guidelines, 71 Fed. Reg. 3848 (Jan. 24, 2006).





n24.  The phaseout of personal and dependency exemptions for high-income
taxpayers is contained in I.R.C. §151(d)(3) (2005). In 2006, the phaseout begins
for married couples filing joint returns at an adjusted gross income (AGI) of $
225,750, and is completed at an AGI of $ 348,250. Rev. Proc. 2005-70, 2005-2
C.B. 979, §3.17. The denial of exemptions to high-income taxpayers is scheduled
to be gradually phased out, with the phaseout beginning in 2006 and to be
completed in 2010. I.R.C. §151(d)(3)(E), (F) (2005). The complete repeal of the
phaseout is effective for only one year, however. As with all the provisions of
the 2001 tax legislation, the repeal of the phaseout is subject to sunset at the
end of 2010. Economic Growth and Tax Reconciliation Act of 2001 §901, Pub. L.
No. 107-16, 115 Stat. 38, 150.





n25.  The exclusion of employer-provided health insurance does not extend to
insurance provided to an unmarried domestic partner of an employee unless the
domestic partner qualifies as a dependent of the employee. Treas. Reg. §1.106-1
(2004).

   Because many employers now provide such non-excludable coverage, the IRS has
been required to explain, in private letter rulings, how taxable
employer-provided insurance is to be valued. In its first ruling in this area,
the IRS stated that the taxable value of a non-excluded fringe benefit is "the
amount that an individual would have to pay for the particular fringe benefit in
an arm's length transaction" and that, in the health-insurance context, it is
"the amount that an individual would have to pay for the particular coverage in
an arm's-length transaction (i.e., at individual policy rates)." I.R.S. Priv.
Ltr. Rul. 90-34-048 (May 29, 1990) (citing and applying Treas. Reg.
§1.61-21(b)(2)). The IRS soon changed its position, however. In Private Letter
Ruling 91-09-060, the IRS stated that in the case of group health insurance "the
amount includible ... is the fair market value of the group medical coverage,
notwithstanding that the fair market value of the group coverage may be
substantially less than the fair market value of individual coverage or the
subjective value of the coverage to the employee." I.R.S. Priv. Ltr. Rul.
91-09-060 (Dec. 6, 1990). The IRS has adhered to this position ever since. See,
e.g., I.R.S. Priv. Ltr. Rul. 92-31-062 (May 7, 1992); I.R.S. Priv. Ltr. Rul.
97-17-018 (Jan. 22, 1997); I.R.S. Priv. Ltr. Rul. 2003-39-001 (June 13, 2003).

   Although the rulings are not explicit on the point, it is reasonably clear
that the IRS contemplates that coverage within a particular group has the same
value for each covered individual, regardless of an individual's age, sex, or
other attributes. See William V. Vetter, Restrictions on Equal Treatment of
Unmarried Domestic Partners, 5 B.U. Pub. Int. L.J. 1, 7 (1995) (reading the
rulings in this way). If this is the correct way to value employer-provided
health insurance, then I.R.C. §106 does not actually feature sensitivity to
age-and sex-based differences in the cost or value of health insurance excluded
from gross income, because there are no such differences in the group-insurance
context. The later private letter rulings, however, are clearly inconsistent
with general tax principles of valuation and are best understood as an IRS
retreat in the face of political and administrative objections to the
application of general valuation principles in this context. It is reasonable
for the valuation of taxable employer-provided insurance to reflect the lower
cost of group coverage than individual coverage, but it is not reasonable to
pretend that group coverage has the same value for a twenty-five-year-old male
as for a sixty-five-year-old (of either sex).





n26.  Insurers use indices to express how the cost of health insurance coverage
varies according to age and sex. An index number of one for a particular age and
sex indicates that the cost of coverage for a person of that age and sex is the
same as the average cost of coverage for the entire insured population. For
example, the index for a thirty-year-old man is 0.574, so if the average cost of
coverage for the entire population is $ 2000, the cost of his coverage would be
$ 1148. The index for a fifty-year-old woman is 1.762, so the cost of her
coverage would be $ 3524 - more than triple the cost of coverage for the younger
man. Lawrence Zelenak, A Health Insurance Tax Credit for Uninsured Workers, 38
Inquiry 106, 108 (2001).





n27.  Similarly, a fixed allowance cannot distinguish between the person who
remains healthy all year and so incurs no cost-sharing expenses (that is,
co-payments and deductibles) and the person who incurs several thousand dollars
of such expenses.





n28.  Of course, if the cost of basic health insurance were built into the
standard deduction and the exemptions, also providing an exclusion for the
actual value of health insurance received from one's employer would amount to
two tax-free allowances for the same cost. It does not appear, however, that the
cost of basic health insurance is built into the standard deduction and the
exemptions because the standard deduction and the exemptions do not feature the
age-and sex-based adjustments which would be required to reflect the cost of
basic health insurance. But see I.R.C. §63(f)(1) (2005) (allowing a larger
standard deduction to taxpayers sixty-five or older).





n29.  To be sure, the Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation (Staff) lists the
exclusion for employer-provided health insurance, I.R.C. §106 (2005), as an item
in the tax-expenditure budget, thus indicating a view of the exclusion as a
subsidy. Staff of the J. Comm. on Taxation, JCS-1-05, Estimates of Federal Tax
Expenditures for Fiscal Years 2005-2009, at 37 tbl.1, (Comm. Print 2005). This
contrasts with the Staff's "clear income" view of personal and dependency
exemptions, as well as the standard deduction, as part of "the normal structure
of the individual income tax." Id. at 3. Although the Staff's treatment of the
entire exclusion as a tax expenditure is dubious, two points are worth noting.
First, under current law the exclusion is not limited to the cost of basic
insurance, and the Staff is correct that the exclusion of the cost of
more-than-basic insurance should be classified as a tax expenditure. Second, the
Staff has an announced bias in favor of tax expenditure classification in
debatable cases; the Staff categorizes an item as a tax expenditure whenever
there is "a reasonable basis for such classification." Id. at 2.





n30.  I.R.C. §213(a) (2005) (imposing 7.5% of AGI floor). Under I.R.C. §162(l)
(2005), however, self-employed taxpayers may deduct their health-insurance costs
in full, whether or not they itemize, and without the application of any
percentage-of-AGI floor.





n31.  As described later in this article, under some circumstances health
savings accounts (HSAs) and health flexible spending arrangements (health FSAs)
permit the exclusion from the tax base of cost-sharing expenses, without regard
to the limits imposed on deductions under I.R.C. §213. See infra notes 43-50 and
accompanying text. As also described later in this article, however, in many
cases HSAs and FSAs are not adequate substitutes for an unrestricted deduction
for basic health care costs not covered by insurance.





n32.  Havighurst and Richman make this point. See Havighurst & Richman, supra
note 1, at 36-37 n.86.





n33.  See Abigail Zuger, For a Retainer, Lavish Care by "Boutique" Doctors, N.Y.
Times, Oct. 30, 2005, §1, at 1 (describing the trend toward "concierge" personal
physicians).





n34.  Although the exclusion of insurance coverage for more-than-basic health
care is objectionable under clear-income analysis, the exclusion for insurance
coverage featuring little or no cost sharing is not. As explained in the text,
the entire cost of basic health care should be excluded from the tax base,
whether that cost consists of (1) the higher cost of insurance with no cost
sharing or (2) the sum of the lower cost of insurance with high cost sharing and
the deductibles and co-payments paid by a person with such insurance.





n35.  But see I.R.S. Priv. Ltr. Rul. 91-09-060, supra note 25 (taking the
unreasonable position that the value of taxable employer-provided health
insurance does not depend on any attributes of the covered individual).





n36.  Havighurst & Richman, supra note 1, at 36.





n37.  Id. at 37 (describing them as "providing, at best, only weak evidence of
the pervasive injustice we observe in U.S. health care"). In downplaying the
significance of these criticisms, they note that "the regressive consequences
would be entirely offset if, as is arguably the case, the government replaces
the revenue it loses through such tax expenditures by taxing other income at
higher progressive rates." Id.





n38.  Stanley S. Surrey, Pathways to Tax Reform 134-38 (1973) (expressing this
view of deductions and exclusions); see also Harvey E. Brazer, The Federal
Income Tax and the Poor: Where Do We Go from Here?, 57 Cal. L. Rev. 422, 441
(1969) (noting that the tax benefit from a dependency exemption of any given
dollar amount is greatest for a taxpayer in the highest bracket).





n39.  For criticisms of other attempts to apply the upside-down subsidy critique
to adjustments to the tax base designed to measure ability to pay, see Zelenak,
supra note 22, at 363-65 (regarding dependency exemptions), and Seto & Buhai,
supra note 22, at 1093 (explaining that a deduction or an exclusion, rather than
a credit, is the proper tax mechanism if the goal is "to adjust for differences
in ability to pay").





n40.  Havighurst & Richman, supra note 1, at 37 n.86.





n41.  Notice, incidentally, that this part of the complaint does not depend on
the existence of progressive marginal rates; even under a flat tax it would be
inappropriate to subsidize extravagant health-insurance benefits for the
well-to-do.





n42.  Havighurst & Richman, supra note 1, at 36.





n43.  Id. at 38; see also I.R.C. §223 (2005) (allowing a deduction for
contributions by the taxpayer to the taxpayer's HSA).





n44.  If the taxpayer's employer makes contributions to the taxpayer's HSA to
cover the taxpayer's cost-sharing expenses, including contributions made under a
salary-reduction agreement, those contributions are excluded from the taxpayer's
gross income. I.R.C. §106(d) (2005). However, the sum of deductible and
excludable annual contributions may not exceed an inflation-adjusted ceiling
amount, which is $ 2700 (self-only coverage) or $ 5450 (family coverage) in
2006. I.R.C. §§223(b), 106(d) (2005); Rev. Proc. 2005-70, 2005-2 C.B. 979,
§3.22.





n45.  The minimum deductible increases to $ 2000 in the case of family coverage.





n46.  As Havighurst and Richman note, in one respect taxpayers with HDHPs and
HSAs receive better tax treatment than taxpayers with employer-provided health
insurance with little or no cost sharing - contributions may accumulate within
an HSA, and no tax is imposed on the HSA's resulting investment income. They
accurately characterize this as a "new tax shelter for the well-to-do."
Havighurst & Richman, supra note 1, at 39 n.96.





n47.  In a recent survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation, only 2.3% of employers
reported offering HSA-qualified HDHPs, and only 15% of employees offered that
option selected it; the Foundation estimated that a total of 810,000 workers
were enrolled in HSA-qualified HDHPs nationwide. Kaiser Family Foundation,
Employer Health Benefits 2005 Annual Survey §8 (2005), available at
http://www.kff.org/insurance/7315/upload/7315.pdf. In the same survey, 2% of
employers not currently offering HSA-qualified HDHPs (including 7% of employers
with 1,000 or more employees) indicated they were likely to do so next year.
Id.; see also Staff of the J. Comm. on Taxation, supra note 29, at 37
(estimating expected tax-expenditure amounts for the five-year period 2005-2009,
and indicating only $ 2.7 billion for HSAs over the five years, compared with $
493.7 billion for exclusions under I.R.C. §106 and $ 44.1 billion for deductions
under I.R.C. §213).





n48.  See I.R.C. §125 (2005); Prop. Treas. Reg. §1.125-2, Q&A (7) (Mar. 7,
1989); I.R.S., Dep't of the Treasury, Publ'n No. 969, Health Savings Accounts
and Other Tax-Favored Health Plans 12-13 (2004), available at
http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p969.pdf (describing health FSAs).

   Arguably, Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs) constitute a third means
of paying cost-sharing medical expenses with before-tax dollars. If, pursuant to
an HRA, an employer reimburses an employee (up to a maximum annual amount
specified in the HRA plan) for cost-sharing medical expenses, the reimbursement
is excluded from the employee's gross income. See generally I.R.S. Notice
2002-45, 2002-2 C.B. 93 (describing in detail the rules applicable to HRAs). HRA
reimbursements must be financed solely by the employer; they may not be made
pursuant to a salary-reduction agreement. (Any excess of the ceiling on annual
reimbursements over actual reimbursements during the year may be carried forward
for reimbursements in later years.) From the employee's perspective, having cost
sharing covered by an HRA is the equivalent of having health insurance with no
cost sharing at all. For this reason, HRAs are not discussed in the text as a
means of obtaining favorable income tax treatment for cost-sharing expenses.





n49.  On the complexities of how a fully rational taxpayer should balance the
tax savings from health FSAs against the use-it-or-lose-it risk, see Franklin
Lowenthal and Phillip Storrer, Medical FSAs: An Expected Value Analysis, 100 Tax
Notes 521 (2003).





n50.  In a 2003 national survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 42% of
employees surveyed indicated their employer or their spouse's employer offered a
health FSA option, 49% indicated the option was not available, and 9% did not
know. Of those with the option, 34% indicated they participated, 65% indicated
they did not participate, and 1% did not know. Kaiser Family Foundation, The
Kaiser Family Foundation Health Insurance Survey (2004), available at
http://www.kff.org/insurance/upload/2003-health-insurance-survey-toplines.pdf.





n51.  Havighurst & Richman, supra note 1, at 43.





n52.  Id. at 45.





n53.  Id. at 55-57.





n54.  Id. at 38.





n55.  The President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform, Simple, Fair and
Pro-Growth: Proposals to Fix America's Tax System 78-82 (2005). The Panel's
stated reasons for its proposal resonate with Havighurst's and Richman's
critique of current law:



   Because of the tax-preferred status of health insurance, people are more
likely to buy health insurance that provides more coverage than they would in
the absence of the incentive. Workers who purchase more health insurance may, in
turn, use more health services, thereby increasing overall health spending.
Estimates are imprecise, but removing subsidies for employer-provided health
insurance could lower private spending on healthcare by 5 to 20 percent... .



... .



The Treasury Department estimates that the Panel's recommendation to cap the
health-insurance amount at the average premium and provide an equal deduction to
all taxpayers would reduce the number of uninsured Americans by 1 to 2 million
people.

 Id. at 80, 82.





n56.  Id. at 81. These are "the national average amounts projected to be spent
on health insurance premiums in 2006."





n57.  Id. at 82. Given the purpose of equalizing the tax treatment of
employer-provided and individually purchased health insurance, there appears to
be a technical error in the proposal. In applying the $ 5000/$ 11,500 ceiling to
the exclusion of employer-provided insurance, the proposal seems to contemplate
valuing the coverage in the manner currently used by the IRS in valuing taxable
coverage provided to the domestic partners of employees - by disregarding the
effect of the age and sex of an insured person on the value of her coverage. See
I.R.S. Prvt. Ltr. Rul. 91-09-060, supra note 25; see also supra text
accompanying note 25. Thus, the proposal would exclude the entire value of
employer-provided coverage for all members of an employer group as long as the
average cost of coverage within the group was within the dollar ceilings, even
if the value of coverage for some members of the group would exceed the ceilings
if the valuation of the coverage reflected age-and sex-based differences. This
is reasonable, as it approximates the results that would be achieved under the
more theoretically proper approach of (1) valuing the coverage taking the age
and sex of the insured into account and (2) adjusting the ceiling on the
exclusion to take age and sex into account. The problem arises with respect to
the treatment of individually purchased coverage, where a
twenty-five-year-old-male might be able to deduct the entire cost of
more-than-basic coverage under the $ 5000 ceiling, whereas a sixty-five-year-old
of either sex subject to the same ceiling might not be able to deduct much of
the cost of even bare-bones coverage. The solution, of course, would be to
adjust the deduction ceilings to reflect differences in the cost of basic
insurance for taxpayers in different age and sex categories.


                              213 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              July 25, 2011 Monday
                                   C1 Edition

Self-funding health plans for small business

SECTION: BIZ LEDGER; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 537 words


We had the opportunity to sit down with Liz Smith, employee benefits practice
leader from Assurance in Schaumburg to discuss the shift of smaller employers
moving to a self-funded financial arrangement for their health insurance plan.

A. There are several unknowns right now with regards to health insurance, so
employers are seeking creative solutions to lower costs long-term, improve their
employee's health and well-being and increase overall morale within their
organizations.They are looking for solutions that will provide them the
opportunity to stabilize their renewal increases and are seeking a better
understanding how their health insurance costs are calculated and how they can
influence this item in their budget.

Employers that have invested in improving the health of their staff have
benefited from improved financial results through lower health insurance costs.
These results, however, can only be accomplished by gaining control of health
insurance plans and moving to a self-funded approach.

A. Self-funding provides organizations the opportunity for more transparency
with regards to claims costs and overall utilization.There is greater
flexibility with plan design and employers are able to determine which benefits
they will offer their employees.The renewal calculation for an organization is
based off their claims experience and therefore, employers have greater control
of influencing the overall costs.Self-funded plans give employers the
opportunity to have the lowest cost and reap the benefits of low claims years.

A. As organizations strive to increase profitability, better managing health
care costs through a strategic wellness program will help accomplish this
goal.We believe an organization can have a great impact on the overall
well-being of their employees, therefore driving better financial results.The
healthier the employee, the greater the productivity, the lower the health
insurance costs, which creates increased profitability for the organization and
most importantly, improved morale.

A. Incorporating consumerism within the plan encourages employees to become more
knowledgeable and take greater control of their health care dollars by making
better buying decisions.Not only will this give them more "bang for their buck",
but it will ultimately impact the employer's costs.A self-funded employer has
the opportunity to enjoy costs savings due to cash flow.There is greater
flexibility with specific benefit offerings that would lower costs as
well.Self-funding your health insurance plan also reduces your costs through
premium tax savings.It's important to know the key metrics of the program and
monitor the results on a quarterly basis.

A. Each organization needs to evaluate their risk tolerance.A fully insured plan
provides consistent budgeting with little fluctuation from
month-to-month.However, a self-funded plan provides the opportunity for much
lower costs at the risk of potentially higher costs depending on the claims.An
in depth analysis of fully insured options versus self-funded options should be
done at renewal time as well as a review of the long-termgoals of the
organization, making sure they are aligned with the structure of the health
insurance plan.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              214 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             August 3, 2007 Friday
                                  City Edition

Healthy lifestyle becomes a policy

BYLINE: Paul Monies, Business Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 427 words


Increased use of employee wellness programs and network doctors likely limited
higher health insurance premiums in Oklahoma this year even as workers shoulder
more of the burden, according to a survey of regional employers.

While 59 percent of the 134 employers surveyed in Oklahoma and Arkansas said
they paid higher health insurance premiums, the rate is lower than in 2006,
Compdata Surveys found. More than 63 percent of employers experienced higher
premiums last year. Companies responding to the survey employ more than 353,000
workers across the two states.

"Health insurance continues to be a concern for both employers and employees
across the United States," said Amy Kaminski, Compdata's manager of marketing.
"And as the presidential election approaches, candidates' health care plans will
remain a primary focus of debate. However, most companies are concerned with how
to contain costs now, and in response, some states are exploring legislative
measures."

In Oklahoma, about 700,000 people lack health insurance. State legislators
passed bills earlier this year to mitigate the rising cost of health insurance.
One bill expanded the income eligibility for a voucher program to help parents
buy private health insurance for their children. The other bill increased
eligibility for Insure Oklahoma, the program that helps businesses buy health
insurance for their workers.

Compdata said health insurance premiums have been increasing recently at a
slower rate, although they still outstrip inflation and gains in wages. Health
insurance premiums in Oklahoma and Arkansas rose 9.2 percent in 2007, compared
with 11.1 percent in 2006 and 12.3 percent in 2005, Compdata found.

Employers cited wellness programs and doctor-network plans among the most-used
options to contain rising premium costs. Also ranking high was better
coordination of benefits.

Meanwhile, 33 percent of employers in Oklahoma and Arkansas increased the
portion workers pay for health insurance. That is down from 40 percent of
employers in 2006 and 49 percent in 2005, Compdata said.

On average, employers contribute 11 percent of payroll costs to providing health
benefits - about the same as it costs to provide dental, pension, life,
disability and other benefits combined.

Separately, a Wall Street Journal/NBC poll on the economy found 44 percent of
Americans were very concerned about rising health care costs. That level was
higher than concerns about jobs going overseas (34 percent), the gap between
rich and poor (22 percent) and the cost of higher education (17 percent).

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           August 21, 2013 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Family insurance premiums rise 4 percent again Wages continue to grow far more
slowly than the costs of health coverage. BUSINESS

BYLINE:  By JULIE APPLEBY Kaiser Health News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 432 words


For the second year in a row, health insurance premiums for job-based family
coverage rose a relatively modest 4 percent, reflecting slowed health spending.

Nonetheless, workers are likely to feel an increased pinch from health care
costs: More than a third have annual deductibles of at least $1,000 this year
before their insurance kicks in, while wages continue to grow far more slowly
than health insurance costs.

The average family plan premium topped $16,000 for the first time, with workers
paying on average $4,565 toward that cost, not counting co-payments and
deductibles, according to a survey of about 2,000 employers released Tuesday by
the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research & Educational Trust.

The average cost of a single employee's insurance premiums rose 5 percent, to
$5,884, with workers paying an average of $999, the survey found.

Workers' wages increased 1.8 percent on average, while general inflation rose
1.1 percent. The survey was done between January and May of this year.

"The premium increase this year is very moderate, but the pain factor for health
insurance cost has not disappeared," said Drew Altman, president and CEO of the
foundation. "Over time, what people pay for health care has dramatically
eclipsed both their wages and inflation."

The increases documented in the report, moderate by historic standards, come
amid ongoing debate over the federal health law's ability to rein in health care
costs. In July, the Obama administration granted a one-year delay, until 2015,
in the requirement that employers with 50 or more workers offer coverage or face
a fine, prompting Republicans to call for a similar delay in the rule requiring
most individuals to carry coverage.

---

KEY FINDINGS

o The average family health plan premium topped $16,000 for the first time, with
workers paying on average $4,565 toward that cost, not counting co-payments and
deductibles.

o Workers pay 18 percent of the premium costs for single coverage on average,
and 29 percent of the premium cost for family plans.

o Health insurance premiums have risen 196 percent since 1999, with worker
contributions growing 182 percent. Meanwhile, wages have grown an average of 50
percent since 1999.

o Thirty-eight percent of all workers with single health insurance had at least
a $1,000 annual deductible, the amount they pay before most insurance coverage
kicks in.

Sources: Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research & Educational Trust

---

The Post-Dispatch is part of a consortium of five news organizations working
with Kaiser Health News to cover the Affordable Care Act.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                         September 25, 1999, Saturday,

HEALTH INSURANCE COST TOP ISSUE;
 RISING PREMIUMS ARE THE LEADING CONCERN OF SMALL-BUSINESS OWNERS IN MAINE AND
THE NATION.

BYLINE: CLARKE CANFIELD Staff Writer

SECTION: SATURDAY BUSINESS, Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 644 words


Health insurance costs have roughly doubled for Doug Bauer's company since the
early '90s.

With numbers like that, it is no surprise that the rising cost of health
insurance premiums is the No. 1 concern of small-business owners in Maine,
according to a survey by the National Federation of Independent Businesses. The
survey found that 70 percent of small-business owners are "extremely concerned"
about insurance premiums.

Bauer's business, The Moir Co., exemplifies why small businesses have reason to
fret over rising health-care costs. The company, located in the town of Denmark,
installs new wiring and insulation in electric motors.

The health insurance premiums for Bauer's 14 employees have risen steadily for
most of this decade, and last year cost about $ 44,000. Disability insurance
premiums ran an additional $ 6,000. Nowadays, health insurance costs are about
eight times greater than worker's compensation premiums.

And with insurance premiums ready to go up again, Bauer is worried about the
costs in the future.

"Every increase comes out of the bottom line," Bauer said. "And at this point,
there's not much left on the bottom."

The National Federation of Independent Business is a small-business advocacy
group with 600,000 members nationwide and 6,300 in Maine.

It conducted a national study earlier this year to determine the top issues
among small businesses. In Maine, 487 small-business owners participated.

The top concerns behind health insurance were punitive damage awards in court
cases, worker's comp insurance, estate taxes, state income taxes and business
liability insurance. Rounding out the top 10 were capital gains taxes, finding
qualified workers, unemployment insurance costs, and federal workplace safety
and health regulations.

The cost of health insurance was also the top concern of small businesses
nationally.

David Clough, the NFIB's director in Maine, said worker's comp costs were the
top concern among small businesses in the early '90s. But he is not surprised
that health insurance premiums are now the top issue.

He said premiums are on the rise, and business owners fear that new laws may be
passed that will place a greater financial burden on them.

"Maine small-business owners think health-care reforms are needed," he said.
"But they want reforms that will make coverage more affordable, not reforms that
will price health care out of their reach and leave more people without any
insurance whatsoever."

The rising price of health insurance is not just a cost issue. Bauer said when
prices go up, he has to shop around for the best insurance deal -- which takes
time and effort. And when companies bounce from one plan to another, employees
have to familiarize themselves with the costs and benefits of the new plan.

Terry Skillin, president of the family-owned Skillin's Greenhouses in Falmouth,
said his company is also constantly comparing rates among insurance companies
and changing plans when rates go up. Skillin's work force ranges from 60 to 115
employees through the year.

"Those are the kind of things we're constantly wrestling with, not only to stay
in business but also to treat our employees well," he said.

Insurance costs rose rapidly in the early 1990s, but stabilized somewhat in the
middle of the decade.

But they are again on the rise, and appear poised to go up even more. The impact
of those price increases will vary widely because companies have different
packages and arrangements for sharing costs with employees.

Whatever the case, many health maintenance organizations have raised premiums
over the past couple of years -- and probably will again soon -- because of
financial losses. Six of the seven HMO plans in Maine ended 1998 with losses:
The overall loss was $ 70 million. In 1997, the HMOs lost a combined $ 21.5
million.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1999 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                              217 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Indianapolis Business Journal

                                 April 1, 2013

OBAMACARE: CRUNCHING THE NUMBERS;
How much will health insurance for part-timers cost? How much more will our
premiums rise? Should we offer health insurance or pay fines?

LENGTH: 1663 words


OBAMACARE: CRUNCHING THE NUMBERS How much will health insurance for part-timers
cost? How much more will our premiums rise?

Should we offer health insurance or pay fines?

The biggest changes from President Obama's 2010 health reform law take effect
nine months from now, which means the time most Hoosier workers will choose
their health insurance plan for next year is only about six months away.

That means Hoosier employers have to make decisions about how to handle the
health reform law right about now.

Many have started crunching detailed numbers to cost out their options.

Some are weighing how much they would save by not offering health insurance.
Instead, they would pay new federal penalties and pay to help employees find

ANSWERSINSIDE...

Each business has to run its own numbers to find the most cost-effective future
in the new world of health insurance.

Scotty's Brewhouse

Give part-timers health insurance: $206,000 Don't and pay penalties: $244,000

Sun King Brewing Co.

Add health insurance: $250,000 Don't and pay penalties: $60,000

F.A. Wilhelm Construction Co.

Six-year rise in premiums before: 50 percent Six-year rise in premiums after: 70
percent

Note: Figures are company projections for 2014. For Wilhelm, projections are for
2014-2019.

Sources: the companies individual insurance policies in a new federally run
health insurance exchange.

Others are wrestling with whether to extend their health plan to their part-time
workers to avoid the federal penalties.

Still others are just trying to understand whether their premiums will go up or
down once most of Obamacare takes effect on Jan. 1, 2014.

"It is truly a new landscape when you look ahead to 2014, and a lot of that is
unknown," said Katy Stowers, advisor general counsel at First Person Inc., a
benefits consultancy in Indianapolis.

But now, three years after the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act, enough is known that most employers can make decisions about what to
do for next year.

A key hurdle was crossed on Jan. 2, when the Internal Revenue Service published
its proposed regulations on how it will assess penalties on employers that don't
offer health insurance to at least 95 percent of their workers or who fail to
offer coverage that is affordable for their employees.

"I came back to work on Jan. 2, and it was like everyone was paying attention,"
Stowers said.

Below, three Indianapolis-area employers share the analyses they have done on
how Obamacare will affect them and how to respond.

Scotty's Brewhouse

Either way Scotty's Brewhouse cut it, it looked like President Obama's health
reform law would sap more than half the annual cash flow from the
seven-restaurant chain based in Indianapolis.

The company has 800 employees, but it provides health insurance to only 65
salaried staff members. As at many restaurants, hourly employees aren't eligible
for Scotty's health plan.

So Scotty's faced paying the health law's $2,000 penalties for every hourly
employee that averaged at least 30 hours a week during the year, which it
figured would cost it $244,000 annually.

Or else Scotty's could offer health insurance to those employees, which it
figured would cost about $206,000 a year-including the cost of an additional
administration person to oversee the larger health benefits program.

Both options would hammer Scotty's annual profit-after debt payments and capital
purchases-of about $400,000, leaving the $20 million operation running on
margins of less than 1 percent.

"We would definitely have to slow down our expansion," said Wendy Hantelman,
chief financial officer at Scotty's, which had once hoped to open six to eight
new restaurants this year and next.

"We're going to have to slow down either way," she added.

Scotty's still plans to open restaurants in Mishawaka and Fort Wayne. But all
other new restaurants are on hold, Hantelman said, as are the 500 to 850 jobs
those new restaurants would have created.

Scotty's also worked with First Person to come up with a plan to mute the impact
of the health reform law.

They scrutinized more closely the 154 employees who worked roughly 30 hours per
week. Of those, it found that 31 already worked 35 or more hours per week. So
Scotty's decided to offer them health insurance.

Scotty's store managers identified another 30 employees who worked 31 or 32
hours per week, but who were deemed critical to keeping Scotty's kitchen and
hosting operations ahead of its competition. So Scotty's will also offer those
employees health insurance.

The other 93 who work about 30 hours per week will now be "managed down" to just
under 30 hours per week, and will not be offered health insurance.

Scotty's estimates that this plan will cost it $90,000 to $100,000 in extra
spending next year, which is more manageable than offering insurance to all its
workers.

Sun King Brewing Co.

Four-year-old craft brewer Sun King has never offered health insurance to its
employees, but it has always planned to do so once it could afford it.

The health reform law is forcing the company to make a decision now.

Sun King has 36 full-time employees and 60 part-timers, most of whom are in
their 20s or early 30s, and who don't typically use a lot of health care.

The company expects to have 60 fulltime-equivalent employees by 2014. And if it
chooses not to offer health insurance, Obamacare will require it to pay $2,000
for each full-time-equivalent employee over the number 30.

So that's a cost of $60,000 for the year.

That's significantly less than what Sun King would pay if it starts a health
insurance plan. President Omar Robinson estimates a health plan will cost Sun
King $250,000 to $300,000 per year-although he acknowledges those figures are a
"SWAG-a scientific wild-assed guess."

Costs are difficult to estimate because not all employees who are offered health
insurance will take it. Even though in 2014 most adults will face fines if they
do not buy health insurance, some could be covered by their spouse's health
insurance, and workers 26 and younger could remain on their parents' plan.
Others may simply pay the fine, which starts out at only $95 per year.

Robinson budgeted $300,000 for health insurance for 2014, but Sun King will
bring in a benefits consultant in late April to begin detailed analysis.

Sun King already spends $2,000 to provide yoga classes to its employees and
$50,000 to serve healthful lunches at its offices four days a week. But offering
health insurance will force Sun King to put off other major purchases.

The company could buy six brewing tanks or three delivery trucks for the same
amount of money it will spend-even after figuring in tax benefits-on health
insurance.

"We will grow at a slower speed because of health care reform," said Robinson,
sitting behind his desk in a former auto manufacturing facility east of
downtown. He estimated Sun King's growth would drop from 20 percent to about 17
percent or 18 percent if it adds a health insurance plan.

But with revenue projected to hit $8 million next year, Robinson said he's
committed to adding health benefits.

F.A. Wilhelm Construction Co.

As soon as President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act in March 2010,
executives at Indianapolis-based contractor Wilhelm Construction decided they
would end their company-sponsored health plan.

The 1,500-person company, which built the headquarters for the NCAA and is
building the new Eskenazi Hospital, figured it could use the health insurance
exchanges created by the law to help employees find equivalent health
coverage-and for less money.

That's because the exchanges offer federal subsidies to cover some of the cost
of health insurance.

But an analysis by Wilhelm's benefits adviser, Apex Benefits Group, found it
would actually cost the 200 non-union employees that are covered by Wilhelm's
health plan about 33 percent more to buy coverage via the exchanges than they
were already paying via Wilhelm's existing plan.

"Our goal was to get out of this game," said Joe Cathcart, Wilhelm's secretary
and treasurer. But, he added, Apex's calculations took that option off the
table.

There are a slew of factors that will drive up costs in 2014. The health law
taxes health insurers, who will likely pass that on to employers as a 2-percent
to 3-percent premium increase. There are per-employee taxes employers must pay
to help the federal government pay for "transitional reinsurance" and new kinds
of medical research.

Taxes on drugs and medical devices will also boost health care prices higher.
And the penalties on individuals who don't buy insurance will push more people
into employer plans, also driving up overall costs.

"I'm just concerned there are employers out there who are going to be staring a
substantial increase in the face who are not ready for it," said John Gause,
president of Apex Benefits.

Late last year, Apex did a long-range projection for Wilhelm's health insurance
premiums, which found they are likely to rise 20 percent in the next year and a
total of 70 percent over the next six years.

That's quite a bit higher than the 50-percent increase Wilhelm experienced
during the last six years.

While Wilhelm would not disclose how much it spends per employee on health
benefits, the average company in Indiana spends $6,500 per worker.

If Wilhelm were consistent with that number, its current health benefits
spending of $1.3 million per year would be set to grow to $2.2 million by 2019.
About $260,000 per year of that increase-or about 29 percent-could be attributed
to Obamacare.

Those rising health care costs immediately affect the wages of Wilhelm's
unionized workers, because Wilhelm pays a flat rate to the union health plan,
which doesn't rise until the next contract negotiation.

But higher health insurance costs could also hurt Wilhelm's ability to hire and
move into new markets, said President Phil Kenney.

"The Affordable Care Act was supposed to drive the line down," Kenney said of
projected health insurance costs. "But what we're seeing is that it's not
reducing estimates."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 IBJ Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 THIRD EDITION

Runaway overhead

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 511 words


Americans spent more than twice as much on insurance company overhead in 2005
than they did in 2000. Yet 2.2 million fewer people were covered by private
health insurance.

That's a big part of the reason that the United States spends dramatically more
than any other country on health care - and still has 46.6 million people
without health insurance.

In 2000, the cost of administering private health insurance was $81.2 billion.
At the time, about 201 million people were enrolled in those plans. By 2005,
just under 199 million people were covered by private health insurance.
Insurance company overhead consumed $143 billion that year, a 140 percent
increase over five years. Meanwhile, overall spending on health care rose 47
percent.

At the same time, the average cost of group health insurance coverage rose by 73
percent, according to the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. The cost of
job-based family coverage went from an average of $6,351 a year per family in
2000 to $10,880 in 2005.

If this sounds absurd, it is. And wasteful. And inadequate. Competition is
supposed to reduce inefficiency. It shouldn't cost 140 percent more to
administer health insurance for 1 percent fewer people, but it did.

What's even crazier is that the most popular current solutions to reducing the
number of uninsured Americans involve signing them up for private insurance.
Massachusetts and Vermont have passed bills that require all citizens to obtain
health coverage; those who can't afford it are supposed to get a subsidy to help
buy a health policy. President George W. Bush has proposed changing tax
incentives so that companies wouldn't provide health insurance that costs more
than $15,000 a year for family coverage. Individuals would be encouraged to buy
such pricey policies on their own. But because they would no longer be part of a
large group, their premiums for the same coverage would be substantially higher.

One reason overhead grew so fast is that insurance companies hired so many
people. Employment at health insurance companies grew by 31 percent between 2000
and 2005. Many of those employees were brought on to screen out high-risk
patients, such as those likely to contract an expensive illness. That makes
sense to companies because the more healthy people they insure, the less they
pay out and the higher their profits. But it's inefficient for the health care
system - as any doctor can attest - not to mention cruel to people who can't get
coverage.

A study published this month in the journal Health Affairs compared health
spending increases in the United States to those in other developed countries
that cover all their citizens. It found health spending grew about twice as fast
here between 1970 and 2002 as it did in other countries with universal health
care. Since 1985, the difference was even greater.

It's better for people to have inefficiently administered coverage than no
coverage at all. But getting people into private health plans isn't the
long-term solution to America's health care problem. It is America's health care
problem.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW | HEALTH CARE COST OPINION

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2007



CORRECTION: An editorial Tuesday incorrectly characterized the growth in
insurance company overhead between 2000 and 2005. It grew by 76 percent during
that time.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - (DOLLAR ON A STRING) DEAN ROHRER | NEWS ART

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Investor's Business Daily

                                  June 7, 2000

Why Uninsureds Are Growing In Boom Times

BYLINE: By M. Susan Basas, Investor's Business Daily

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 852 words


Investor's Business Daily The number of Americans without health insurance has
soared in the past decade - 44 million were uninsured in 1998, up from 34
million in 1988. Many think the uninsured are people without jobs. But this
surge in the uninsured comes amid a red-hot economic expansion and the lowest
jobless rate in decades. The fact is, being employed does not guarantee
insurance. More than eight in 10 uninsured Americans are workers or dependents
of workers, according to a study by NewsHour With Jim Lehrer and Kaiser Family
Foundation. IBD spoke with Diane Rowland of the Kaiser Family Foundation, an
independent philanthropy that focuses on health care issues, about the rising
number of uninsured during the best times - and what could happen if the economy
turns down. IBD: Why are we seeing a growing number of uninsured during an
economic expansion? Rowland: The nature of our economy is changing. The kinds of
jobs that have traditionally offered health insurance coverage are no longer the
places where new jobs are being created. We have a lot of new jobs in small
business and people becoming self-employed. And those are places in the work
force that are less likely to offer health insurance coverage. IBD: Why aren't
the employed uninsured buying their own coverage? Rowland: We haven't had much
of an increase in real wages, so insurance has not become more affordable. More
people are working, but the cost of insurance is still a major problem for
people unless they get help from their employer. IBD: Is the cost of insurance
rising? Rowland: Actually, the rate of growth has slowed a lot over the last few
years. What has happened, however, is the share of the premium paid by workers
has increased over time from about 20% of the premium cost in 1977 to about 27%
of the cost in 1998. So the cost of insurance to employees has outpaced their
real increases in wages. IBD: Why are insurance costs rising? Rowland: The cost
of caring for people has gone up with advances in technology and services, and
people live longer. There are surgical procedures, like elderly having cataract
surgery and being able to see many more years than they would have 30 or 40
years ago. It's progress, but it's also increased the utilization of services by
large segments of our population. Many health insurance plans now cover a
broader array of care; for example, prescription drugs are now a major benefit
in health insurance plans. IBD: Does that mean higher costs as technology and
services continue to improve? Rowland: As people ask for a loosening of the
requirements of managed care, and one-time savings for managed care erode, we'll
continue to see that health insurance is a major cost item. It may not go up at
a double-digit pace, but it's likely to continue to increase over time. IBD:
Will we see more uninsured because of higher costs? Rowland: We'll undoubtedly
see more uninsured people in part because of rising health insurance costs, but
most significantly if we see a downturn in the economy. At this point we're
seeing, this is almost as good as it gets. Some project we could end up with
over 60 million uninsured with a modest downturn in the economy five or 10 years
from now. We have a job-based health insurance system, and if people lose their
jobs they tend to lose health insurance. Very few are able to pay 100% of the
premium, which is what you get with COBRA extension if you leave or lose your
job for a year. We'll see increased pressure on the Medicaid program, which
helps the very lowest income earners provide some coverage for children and
pregnant women. IBD: With the job market so tight today, why aren't job-seekers
demanding health insurance? Rowland: Health coverage is a difficult issue to
negotiate one-on-one. Organized groups, not individuals, do the best at getting
coverage as a negotiated benefit. IBD: Will we see more companies drop health
insurance as a benefit? Rowland: It isn't that a lot of companies are dropping
health insurance coverage. A lot of new companies just aren't offering it. Also,
people are working in different kinds of situations. They're in temporary work
pools, consulting or working from home. Those who have offered it continue to
offer it. But many want their employees to pay a higher share of the premium
cost. Some employees decline coverage. Also, the nature of our economy is
shifting. Fewer employees are offered insurance. We've moved away from these big
manufacturing firms to smaller retail and service firms. Ninety-nine percent of
large firms - 200 workers or more - offer health insurance, but only 60% of
small firms do. IBD: How do you see this affecting the economy in the long run?
Rowland: Very little is understood about the cost of having 44 million people -
16% of our overall population - without health insurance. We do know that we
don't have as healthy and productive a society as we could. And those who have
insurance help to pay for the costs to the health care system for uninsured
people, who arrive at the door for care often sicker than if they had gotten
early care.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2000 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.


                              220 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Camden Haven Courier

                          February 15, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Print Edition

Easing the concern of health insurance

BYLINE: Laura Polson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 434 words


CHANGES are being considered that could save up to $800 million a year on health
insurance, according to Assistant Minister for Health and Federal Member for
Lyne Dr David Gillespie.

Dr Gillespie said the rising costs of health insurance is a source of concern
for many Australians. He said the federal government was looking at ways to cut
health insurance costs with 'a review into prosthesis'.

A committee was looking into prices, as there appeared to be a 'arbitrage'
between the market price and the government listed price of artificial body
parts.

"If everyone was paying market price rather than what the government say the
price is, health insurers estimate they could save $800 million a year - and
that's a lot," Dr Gillespie said.

Dr Gillespie confirmed the rising cost of health insurance concerns the
government and that the 'value judgement issue is critical'.

"Health insurance costs are going up and there is a concern within the industry
and within government. The previous health minister [Sussan Ley] had initiated
reviews and ways to help. [Minister for Health] Greg Hunt is now looking at
these."

Dr Gillespie said Ms Ley was considering gold, silver and bronze systems to make
it easier for people to understand and compare what they get.

"There are a lot of junk policies. These are health insurance policies that
exclude most of what people need to have covered and just pay for easy things,
rather than the expensive things."

Dr Gillespie said the 'existential problem' with health insurance was the
community rating which is challenged by low numbers.

"Around 35 years ago, everyone had health insurance and it was relatively cheap
because everyone had it. Now only 47 per cent of people have health insurance.

"Imagine how expensive your car insurance would be if only half the cars on the
road were insured and the ones that held insurance were the ones likely to
crash.

"That's sort of what's happening - if health insurance doesn't remain affordable
for the average family and the average worker, less people will hold it, so the
premium will have to go up."

Within weeks the Federal Government will inform health insurers whether their
requested premium rate increases from April 1 this year had been approved.

In an interview with Citi analyst Nigel Pittaway, the Herald Sun reports health
insurance premiums could grow this year by the smallest amount in a decade, as
the government tries to "score a win" for consumers.

The article stated former Minister for Health Sussan Ley last year made insurers
resubmit applications to raise rates where the increase was on average 5.59 per
cent.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday

Cabinet agrees universal health plans

BYLINE: Martin Wall

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 314 words


The Government has agreed in principle to the introduction of universal health
insurance by 2019 on condition it does not involve any additional costs to the
exchequer.

Universal health insurance - which has been championed by Minister for Health
James Reilly - would involve a radical reform to the way the Irish health
service is structured and funded.

However the Minister's plans have faced strong criticism over recent months from
within the Government. The Minister will publish a White Paper on his plans
today but there will be further extensive planning and costing carried out in
the months ahead and the issue will return to Cabinet for further key decisions
next year.

Highly placed sources said last night that the Cabinet agreed earlier in the day
to publish the Minister's White Paper with a view to universal health insurance
being introduced in 2019.

Cost containmentSources said this was agreed by the Government on condition the
costs of the health system in 2019 could not exceed those under the arrangements
in place before universal health insurance was introduced.

The Cabinet also set a condition that cost-containment measures proposed in the
plan were approved by the Attorney General. These involve a gradually escalating
series of provisions potentially culminating in a cap being placed on the
profits of insurance companies.

Under Dr Reilly's proposals, universal health insurance would be compulsory for
everyone, with the State paying or subsidising the cost of premiums for most
people.

His proposals were strongly criticised by the Department of Public Expenditure
and Reform several weeks ago. It argued in a letter that the plan could threaten
the financial stability of the State.

It also suggested the cost of the standard package of health insurance under Dr
Reilly's proposals could cost EUR 1,672. The Department of Health strongly
rejected these claims.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

Health-insurance system wrong target

BYLINE: Editor: Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: LETTERS TO EDITOR

LENGTH: 227 words


Everywhere you turn these days, it seems like everyone involved has his own idea
of how to solve the problem of rising health-insurance premiums.  Unfortunately,
many of these proposed plans address only the insurance aspect of health-care
reform and do not address the root causes of what makes health care so expensive
in the first place.

What is often overlooked is the fact that the pricing of health insurance is in
direct response to the cost of paying for health care and that by trying to
reform the health-care system by addressing it solely from an insurance
perspective flies in the face of logic. It only makes sense that if the cost of
providing health-care services increases at a rate of 25 percent a year, then
the costs associated with paying for these services will increase accordingly,
thus resulting in a proportionate rise in health-insurance premiums.

Therefore, until real cost-control measures such as tort reform, limiting new
mandated benefits, cracking down on fraudulent providers and improving the
technology so as to more efficiently share information and reduce costs, I'm
afraid that dismantling the current health "insurance" system without first
reforming the health "care" system will only end up being a short-term solution
at best.

Jeffrey DeMatteo

legislative chairman

Central Pennsylvania Association

of Health Underwriters

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            February 14, 2016 Sunday

Health benefits only issue for Upland teachers

BYLINE: Debbie Glenn

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 620 words


The Upland Unified School District and the Upland Teachers Association are at a
negotiations stalemate. The issue, however, is not about salary, as UUSD would
seem to indicate in recent communications to parents and community members. The
sticking point is actually health benefits.

The Upland Teachers Association and the Upland Unified School District have
offered almost identical proposals that include a 10 percent salary increase and
a one-time 6 percent bonus payment. The 10 percent increase would bring UUSD
teachers to the salary mid-range of surrounding school districts. There are no
longer any significant differences in salary proposals.

The main difference in the parties' proposals is in regard to health insurance.

UTA's proposal sets up a health benefits committee that would use a neutral
facilitator to look at the interests of both sides and explore all possible
options to contain health benefit costs. UTA proposes to work with UUSD to find
a solution to health benefit cost increases that both parties can accept.

The UUSD proposal imposes one immediate and final solution now to contain health
benefit costs and that solution is to the sole benefit of UUSD. The UUSD
proposal would have teachers pay increasing costs on health insurance with no
consideration for cost of living, inflation or salary adjustments. UUSD refuses
to take into consideration any other options that could contain health insurance
costs while also providing some protection for employees from unlimited
escalating costs.

The UUSD proposal states that UUSD is willing to work with UTA on a health
benefits committee. However, the committee only comes into effect after UTA
accepts the UUSD condition to put a health benefits cap into permanent contract
language. The UUSD proposal states that once their preferred health insurance
option is locked into the teachers' contract, they will then be willing to talk
with UTA about other possible options - options that would then be irrelevant. A
conversation after the deal has been closed is meaningless.

UTA simply wants an honest and collaborative conversation about health care
costs up front. UTA does not believe it is fair to force teachers into a health
insurance deal that is to UUSD's sole advantage before teachers are even allowed
to participate in the conversation.

In order to assure UUSD that UTA is serious about working with UUSD to contain
health benefit costs, UTA's proposal offers to take 2 percent of the teachers'
bonus money - which is close to $1 million - and give that back to UUSD as a
guaranteed sum of money to offset health insurance cost increases in 2017-18
while we spend the next six to eight months working together to come up with a
permanent, long-term solution to the problem of health insurance cost increases.

The issue of how to control long-term health care costs is the only major
sticking point left in negotiations. UTA believes our proposal on this point is
very reasonable and fair.

UUSD is holding up a deal because they are unwilling to work with UTA to look at
all possible health benefit cost containment options up front and arrive at a
solution together that everyone can live with. UTA is willing to look at all
options. UTA wants to work collaboratively so that both sides can walk away with
a health care agreement that not only solves the problems but moves us forward
together.

For more detailed information, including actual proposals from both sides,
please go to www.uplandteachers.org and click on negotiations. If anyone has any
questions regarding UTA's proposals and position, feel free to contact me
directly at uplandteachers.info@gmail.com

Debbie Glenn is the negotiations chairperson for the Upland Teachers
Association.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           February 1, 2014 Saturday

Health insurance crux

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 336 words


Every rise in the cost of health insurance means more people abandon private
policy cover, and rely on the public health service to meet their treatment
needs. The VHI's announcement of a 3 per cent average price increase on
premiums, followed by even larger increases by Laya (20 per cent on average) and
GloHealth, will accelerate that process. It will add further pressure to a
public health system struggling to cope, as demand rises for its increasingly
overstretched services. In the past four years the cost of some health insurance
plans has gone up by more than two-thirds. And since 2008, the number with
private health insurance has fallen steadily - from 51 per cent of the
population to under 45 per cent. That number will fall further, as health
insurance costs continue to rise.

VHI's latest increases are to cover the higher charge for private patients
occupying beds in public hospitals. VHI says the full impact of this major
change, which came into effect on January 1st, remains uncertain. Nevertheless,
this year the Government expects to raise EUR 30 million from the charge. And
that, most likely, means further price increases under this heading, both from
VHI and the other health insurance providers, later in the year.

Holders of private health insurance have been particularly hard hit in recent
months. In the budget, the tax relief on health insurance payments was further
reduced, while the charge for private patients occupying public hospital beds
was raised to bring the price closer to economic cost.

Whatever the Government's intention, the net effect has been to make private
health insurance a much less affordable option, as the declining numbers of
policyholders clearly indicate. Minister for Health James Reilly has
acknowledged private health insurance costs are "simply unsustainable". Equally,
the Government's two recent budget decisions have only served to magnify the
difficulties of the sector - something the Minister, it would seem, has been
reluctant to recognise.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Topeka Capital-Journal (Kansas)

                           February 3, 2007 Saturday

Health insurance plan just shifts the burden

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 672 words


Nearly everyone knows that employer provided health insurance valued at $15,000
is much more valuable for an employee than an additional $15,000 in his/her
paycheck, because $15,000 in the paycheck is subject to payroll and income
taxes, and the health insurance benefit, whatever its value, isn't.

People buying private health insurance currently pay with after tax dollars and
get no tax deduction.

This tax anomaly has existed since World War II when employers, limited by wage
and price controls, began providing a health insurance benefit to attract
workers. So, driven by this tax break for employees and union demands, employers
now provide of health insurance for more than 160 million Americans.

Medicare pays most of costs for medical care for 40 million aged and disabled,
and Medicaid pays for the medical care of another 40 million low-income
Americans.

Of the remaining 60 million Americans, 46.6 million are without health insurance
at any one time.

In predictable Republican fashion, the Bush administration proposes to use the
federal tax code to make privately purchased health insurance more affordable by
giving each individual a $7,500 deduction and each family a $15,000 deduction,
regardless of the source or value of the insurance.

Conversely, employees will pay payroll and income taxes on the value of their
employer provided insurance. If the family benefit is valued at more than
$15,000, they lose, because they pay taxes on the excess. If the value is less
than $15,000, they come out ahead.

This equalization of health insurance tax deductions makes sense and smacks of
fairness; but it also analogous to pushing the huge balloon of health care
expenditures one place and seeing if it bulges in another. And where?

The administration believes with the limited deduction, employers will provide
less expensive, less comprehensive policies. And that skinnier policies - those
with more copays and deductibles - will make consumers prudent buyers who will
get more health care for their buck.

The administration also expects tax deductibility of privately purchased
insurance will result in a 3 million to 5 million reduction in uninsured over
the next 10 years.

This is the Pollyanna perspective that the balloon will bulge in good places.

The downside is that employers, especially those with fewer and/or older and
more infirm employees, will simply drop a health insurance benefit or, at least,
accelerate employee cost-sharing by increasing deductibles and copays.

Secondly, the number of uninsured has increased at a pretty steady 1 million per
year since early in the Reagan administration. So the 3 million to 5 million
expected to use the new tax break to buy insurance over the next 10 years is 5
million to 7 million less than those who historically have lost coverage over a
decade. Add dropped employer programs, and the number of uninsured may increase
more rapidly.

Thirdly, prudent buyers with less coverage may not effectively slow rising
health care costs. The Kaiser Family Foundation reports costs of employer
sponsored programs have increased 87 percent since 2000. In the same period,
wages have increased 20 percent.

The Bush administration recommendations certainly would stir things up, but to
what end?

Will the number of people will use their tax deduction to purchase private
policies exceed the number who lose their employer based insurance? And what, if
any, effect will deduction limits and less comprehensive policies, have on
utilization and cost of care?

And how will families fare when they must go one-on-one both on costs and
benefits with hundreds of voracious private health insurance companies that make
money by avoiding the ill and paying providers as little as possible?

And, of course, Bush's proposals do nothing to lower private health insurance
companies' administrative costs closer to public health insurance administrative
costs.

Dr. Bill Roy is a retired physician and former member of Congress. He has a law
degree and lives in Topeka. He may be reached at wirroy@aol.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The Topeka Capital-Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            January 4, 2014 Saturday

The Swiss experience on health insurance

BYLINE: Marcel Bilger For The Straits Times

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1131 words


THERE is no better time than the current public consultation on MediShield Life
to look at how and why other countries have implemented mandatory health
insurance. The Swiss experience is especially interesting, not only because of
the similarities that exist between Singapore and Switzerland, but also because
this experience illustrates the key questions and trade-offs involved when
making reforms.

When implementing change, it is good to lay down exactly what one wants to
achieve.

The first objective of the Swiss reform was to increase solidarity between
genders, young and old, healthy and sick, and rich and poor. In the Singapore
context, one can think of collective responsibility as a close equivalent to the
Swiss view of solidarity.

The second objective of the Swiss reform was to provide quality health care to
the entire population. The third objective was to contain increases in health
care costs.

Before health insurance became mandatory in Switzerland in 1996, most citizens
had health insurance, just like in Singapore today thanks to MediShield. In
Switzerland, the main reason to mandate health insurance was to ensure full
coverage of the population. An additional consideration was to prevent healthy
individuals from opting out and leaving the scheme, insuring only the sick at a
high cost.

Despite being an important point of the reform, mandating health insurance in
itself only affected an extremely small percentage of the population. What
affected everyone was a change in the insurance system. Before the reform,
premiums were set according to the financial risk posed by the insured to the
insurer. It included factors such as gender and age.

Under the new community rating, everyone living in the same region paid the same
premium. An adverse consequence of setting per capita premiums is that they
automatically lead to premiums that are too high for lower-income people. A
system of government subsidies was therefore put in place to reduce their
premiums.

In order to ensure quality health care, Switzerland also increased the benefits
package covered by health insurance. It now includes a wide range of goods and
services for curative and rehabilitative care. By law, to be included in the
benefits package, new goods and services need to be appropriate, effective and
yield value for money.

The importance of the last condition cannot be over-emphasised as a more
generous coverage will also be reflected in higher premiums. In practice,
however, this was only systematically done for pharmaceuticals. Many services
were added with little proven scientific value.

In an effort to contain the increase in health-care costs, the reform introduced
a minimum deductible (below which the insured fully bear the costs) and a
co-insurance rate of 10 per cent on most goods and treatments, up to a cap so as
to limit excessive payments. As is well-known in Singapore, cost-sharing aims at
reducing the overconsumption of health care due to its apparent lower price to
users. At the same time, cost-sharing retains most of the benefits of risk
pooling that health insurance provides.

In addition, the Swiss reform introduced a highly regulated competitive
framework involving decentralised health insurers. This is similar to the reform
currently taking place in the United States known as "Obamacare". The idea is to
curb costs by giving insurance companies an incentive to reduce their
administrative costs, exercise strict control over health-care providers and,
most importantly, introduce new and innovative models of care.

Were the objectives met by the Swiss reform? Social solidarity arguably
improved, both in terms of health financing and access to care due to the
mandatory aspect of health insurance and community-based determination of
premium levels. However, health financing remains very regressive, with
insurance premiums representing a far greater burden to lower-income
individuals. Government subsidies for premium reductions were insufficient and
failed to target the neediest.

As for provision of care, the adoption of an extensive benefits package brought
Switzerland close to the ideal of universal health coverage, which is now
actively promoted by the international community. Clearly, the greatest
shortcoming of the reform was to contain the steady increase in health-care
costs. Cost-sharing and competition between insurers proved unable to cancel out
the combined effect of extensive benefits package with ageing and the rising
burden of chronic diseases. Health insurance premiums are very high and have
been increasing at a rate of almost 5 per cent a year on average since the
reform.

Interestingly, the mandatory aspect of health insurance was never seriously
questioned in Switzerland. Most criticisms were aimed instead at how insurance
premiums are set. In Singapore too, I think that mandating health insurance
through MediShield Life is a good solution. With family sizes shrinking,
individuals without insurance would find it increasingly difficult to access
care otherwise.

Perhaps the most important lesson that can be drawn from the Swiss reform is
that a more cost-sensitive and progressive expansion of the benefits package is
needed. However, with the emergence of new diseases, the development of new
treatments and growing expectations of health insurance, the benefits package is
bound to expand. When designing MediShield Life, it will be important to
anticipate this dynamic and determine the exact conditions under which new
treatments will be added into the benefits package.

When improving the coverage for large bills, MediShield Life should also not
overlook the coverage of low-cost but highly cost-effective care. For instance,
the insurance deductible might have the adverse effect of discouraging the use
of preventive care. Targeted government subsidies could be needed to cancel out
the dissuading effect of MediShield Life co-payments.

In any case, offering comprehensive health care to an ageing population will
never come cheap. I believe that, given the demographic challenge ahead,
innovative solutions will be needed. One idea would be to tie insurance premiums
to modifiable health-risk factors such as healthy eating, physical activity, or
adherence to health treatments. If one thinks that premiums should be set
according to risk, why not set them according to risks that individuals can act
upon? This would not only reduce costs, but it would also promote healthy
ageing.

It would be quite remarkable to find a solution to the problem of health-care
financing in the most unlikely place - in health-care financing itself.

stopinion@sph.com.sg

The writer is Assistant Professor in the Health Services and Systems Research
Programme at the Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MIDDLE CLASS STRUGGLING WITH HEALTH CARE COSTS, REPORT FINDS

BYLINE: DAVID TEMPLETON, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 818 words


Health-care costs are taking a toll on America's middle class.

The East Liberty Family Health Care Center has seen a 26 percent increase in
uninsured patients coming through its doors each of the past two years.

"The face of the uninsured seeking care is changing," said care center interim
Executive Director Eileen Boyle. "They are not just the poor, but are
increasingly the working class."

Even for its own staff, the center experienced a 30 percent jump in health
insurance premiums, some of which was passed on to employees.

"Because we could not absorb the additional 8 percent increase quoted to us for
2008 and 2009, we were forced to offer insurance with decreased coverage and a
substantial deductible," Dr. Boyle said. "We anticipate these trends with
patients and staff to continue as the economy continues to stagger."

What's occurring at the health care center is occurring nationwide.

A report from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation released Wednesday found that a
growing percentage of America's middle class has no health insurance, creating a
crisis destined to climb the economic ladder.

The foundation in Princeton, N.J., said stagnant incomes coupled with soaring
health insurance costs have caused the uninsured middle-income ranks in
Pennsylvania to grow from an average of 249,000 people in 2000 to 381,000 in
2008, which represented 37 percent of the 1,025,000 uninsured in the state. The
rate of uninsured middle-income Americans has risen by more than 2 million since
2000 to a total of 12.9 million in 2008.

That has brought the total number of uninsured Americans, as estimated by the
U.S. Census Bureau, to 46.3 million -- a number compiled before the economic
downturn in the last quarter of 2008.

"Experts assume millions more have become uninsured since the 2008 data, due to
job loss and rising costs of health insurance since that time," according to the
foundation's report, "Barely Hanging On: Middle-Class and Uninsured," released
as part of its eighth annual "Cover the Uninsured Week." The study also comes
coincidently, according to the foundation, as Congress prepares to vote this
week on controversial health-care reform legislation.

Cover the Uninsured Week each spring supports health coverage for all Americans.

While uninsured low-income Americans long have been the traditional focus of
concern, the foundation says America's middle class now "is shouldering the
brunt of health insurance crisis" made all the worse by two recessions in the
first decade of the 21st century.

Employers who try to cover rising health care premiums have been passing those
costs on to employees, who must decide whether to bear higher costs with flat
incomes or go uninsured.

The study, available at www.rwjf.org, provides state-by-state details of health
coverage trends.

"The report shows that the number of middle-income earners who obtained health
insurance from their employers dropped by 3 million people from 2000 to 2008,"
the foundation said. "Just 66 percent of people in families earning roughly
$45,000 to $85,000 are now insured through their employer -- a drop of 7
percentage points from 2000 to 2008."

The total cost for family insurance policies statewide have risen by 56 percent
since 2000, to $12,339 in 2008. Nationally, the cost of family health insurance
policies rose 81 percent over the same time period, while median household
income fell 2.5 percent, after adjusting for inflation.

People whose employers provide health insurance coverage also have faced rising
costs.

"Even though employers still pay most of the tab for their workers' health
insurance, the amount employees in Pennsylvania pay for family premium increased
96 percent from 2000 to 2008," the report states. "Over the same period, the
median income in the state increased just 0.2 percent."

As costs continue to climb, more businesses are passing on those costs to
employees or dropping health care coverage all together.

While business owners no longer can afford to shoulder more of the burden of
health care costs, states cannot afford to accept the influx of laid-off workers
in public programs.

Aaron Billger, Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield spokesman, noted that the
Pennsylvania Insurance Department's 2008 survey found 8.2 percent of
Pennsylvanians to be uninsured -- a low rate when compared with the national
average of 15.8 percent. Highmark, health insurance provider for 3.2 million
people in Western Pennsylvania, has budgeted $121 million to expand health-care
coverage, while also administering the Children's Health Insurance and Adult
Basic programs that cover the uninsured, he said.

Still, the foundation report says, the number of uninsured middle-class
Americans will continue to rise.

Brian C. Quinn, a research and evaluation officer with the foundation, said the
issue of uninsured Americans, which doesn't always resonate with people, becomes
"a stark tale once you see it on paper."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David Templeton: dtempleton@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1578./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              228 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            August 11, 2009 Tuesday

Elderly account for 30% of nation's spending on health

BYLINE: Lee Ji-yoon

LENGTH: 240 words


Senior citizens accounted for 31.7 percent of healthcare costs covered by the
National Health Insurance Corporation in the first half of the year.

Due to the nation's rapidly aging population, the report said, the total
provision for senior citizens also continued to increase, driving up total costs
.

According to a government report, the state-run health insurance agency spent
more than 19 trillion won ($15 billion) to cover healthcare costs in the first
six months of the year, a 12 percent increase from 17 trillion in the same
period of last year.

Of them, medical costs for those aged 65 or older amounted to 6 trillion won, up
15.4 percent from last year.

The number of elderly people covered by the nation's health insurance system
made up 9.8 percent of the total.

According to the report, the average senior citizen was subsidized 212,384 won
per month for healthcare, also up 12.4 percent from 188,985 won in the same
period last year.

"Along with the growing number of people who use medical services, the increase
in the costs for elderly people has pushed the total costs up in the first half
of the year," said Park Moon-kyu, a senior official at the NHIC.

As of June, the total number of citizens who have health insurance coverage was
48.43 million. Of them, 64.6 percent were covered by their employers.

The report also found the monthly household spending on health insurance
averaged 70,104 won in the period.

(jylee@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            September 7, 1990 Friday

Health insurance rates

LENGTH: 500 words


BARRY Hailstone's thoughtful article on health insurance costs (The Advertiser,
29/8/90) identifies nurses' wage rises as the principal reason for health
insurance contribution rates increasing in the near future. He also forecasts
South Australians may be hit with two hefty rises in private insurance
contributions in the next seven months.

I suggest the increasing cost of private health insurance needs to be seen in a
broader perspective. Undoubtedly, wage rises have an effect on private
hospitals' costs. But we have been expecting another round of private hospital
increases in any event.

Some private hospitals have increased their charges over recent months and
others are proposing to do so from October 1. Broadly speaking, this has
resulted in a rise in their charges of about 35 per cent since 1987. There has
been a 28 per cent increase in private hospital income from health insurance
funds in South Australia in the March quarter this year compared with the same
time last year, with only a 14 per cent increase in occupancy during the same
period.

Health insurance costs are a direct reflection of private hospital charges. In
common with other health funds, Medibank Private is a non-profit organisation.
We operate for the benefit of our members to cover, to the greatest extent
possible, fees charged by private hospitals.

The fees charged by private hospitals reflect their cost structures, the
viability of special service facilities, levels of patient occupancy,
administrative efficiency, wages, debt servicing for capital developments and a
host of other things.

Private hospital charges are not subject to any external scrutiny, price
surveillance or control, other than the limited influence which can be brought
to bear on them by health funds such as Medibank Private.

Medibank Private, as Hailstone has reported, is reviewing its tables in the
light of proposed increases in private hospital costs. As the major health
insurer in Australia we are fortunate to be able to draw on our experience in
the other States to try to persuade private hospitals to moderate their
proposals for increased fees and new facilities. After all, the private hospital
industry is almost entirely funded by people with private insurance, who are our
principal concern.

Increased private hospital fees, for whatever reason, will inevitably affect the
cost of health insurance and health care generally. It is notable that, despite
declining numbers of people with health insurance in South Australia in recent
years, many private hospitals have undertaken significant refurbishments and
capital expenditure programs, the cost of which is ultimately borne by people
who pay health insurance contributions.

Private hospitals may cite nurses' wage rises as the reason for hefty health
insurance contribution rates increases, but that evades the broader issue of
their accountability to the community.

JOHN M. EVERED,

Medibank Private,

State Manager, SA and NT.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              230 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            September 7, 1990 Friday

Health insurance rates

LENGTH: 500 words


BARRY Hailstone's thoughtful article on health insurance costs (The Advertiser,
29/8/90) identifies nurses' wage rises as the principal reason for health
insurance contribution rates increasing in the near future. He also forecasts
South Australians may be hit with two hefty rises in private insurance
contributions in the next seven months.

I suggest the increasing cost of private health insurance needs to be seen in a
broader perspective. Undoubtedly, wage rises have an effect on private
hospitals' costs. But we have been expecting another round of private hospital
increases in any event.

Some private hospitals have increased their charges over recent months and
others are proposing to do so from October 1. Broadly speaking, this has
resulted in a rise in their charges of about 35 per cent since 1987. There has
been a 28 per cent increase in private hospital income from health insurance
funds in South Australia in the March quarter this year compared with the same
time last year, with only a 14 per cent increase in occupancy during the same
period.

Health insurance costs are a direct reflection of private hospital charges. In
common with other health funds, Medibank Private is a non-profit organisation.
We operate for the benefit of our members to cover, to the greatest extent
possible, fees charged by private hospitals.

The fees charged by private hospitals reflect their cost structures, the
viability of special service facilities, levels of patient occupancy,
administrative efficiency, wages, debt servicing for capital developments and a
host of other things.

Private hospital charges are not subject to any external scrutiny, price
surveillance or control, other than the limited influence which can be brought
to bear on them by health funds such as Medibank Private.

Medibank Private, as Hailstone has reported, is reviewing its tables in the
light of proposed increases in private hospital costs. As the major health
insurer in Australia we are fortunate to be able to draw on our experience in
the other States to try to persuade private hospitals to moderate their
proposals for increased fees and new facilities. After all, the private hospital
industry is almost entirely funded by people with private insurance, who are our
principal concern.

Increased private hospital fees, for whatever reason, will inevitably affect the
cost of health insurance and health care generally. It is notable that, despite
declining numbers of people with health insurance in South Australia in recent
years, many private hospitals have undertaken significant refurbishments and
capital expenditure programs, the cost of which is ultimately borne by people
who pay health insurance contributions.

Private hospitals may cite nurses' wage rises as the reason for hefty health
insurance contribution rates increases, but that evades the broader issue of
their accountability to the community.

JOHN M. EVERED,

Medibank Private,

State Manager, SA and NT.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              231 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           September 29, 2008 Monday

Way off on health care reform

BYLINE: By Susanne L. King, M.D.

SECTION: OTHER OPINIONS

LENGTH: 894 words


LENOX

You would think that John McCain would have gotten it right on his health care
plan for the country, after his own experience with four malignant melanomas and
multiple surgeries. You would think that experience would have inspired him to
propose a plan that covers everyone, and do so affordably, both for the
individual and for our country. You would think that health care would be a high
priority for him, and that even if economics is not his strong suit, he would
have done his homework.

McCain's central idea for health care reform is his solution for every issue:
let the markets determine the outcome, with unfettered competition as the
driver. Ironically, he continues to tout this philosophy even as Wall Street
crumbles around us, and financial companies look for bailouts from the
government.

McCain would raise taxes for working people, by taxing their health insurance
benefits. This would lead to younger healthy workers opting out of employer
insurance, which would raise employer health insurance costs for the remaining
workers, leading to more and more employers terminating coverage for their
employees. Working individuals would be thrust into the private insurance
market.

Navigating the private insurance market is not only daunting, but it can be
dangerous for your health. Age and health status are factors the insurance
companies look at to determine whether they will take the risk of insuring an
individual, and they try to weed out anyone who is sick or likely to get sick.
They want your premiums, but they don't really want to pay out any money for
health care. So workers who now have insurance in group plans through their
employers will have to fend for themselves in the private market, and may not be
able to get insurance.

McCain wants "to restore control over our health care system to the patients
themselves," and he thus proposes a tax credit of $2,500/ person for the
purchase of health insurance. When cheaper policies cost $6,500/person and carry
deductibles of $1,000, with co-payments every time you try to access benefits,
$2,500 is a paltry sum if you actually have to use your insurance. This is
health insurance in the private market: increasing costs for fewer benefits.

McCain also proposes decreasing the regulation of health insurance, allowing
people to buy insurance from companies that don't operate in their states. This
would benefit only the insurance companies, who would be able to avoid state
legislation requiring certain necessary health benefits, like mammograms. And
doctors would have even more paperwork, more administrative costs, and more
headaches than they do now, as they try to deal with even more insurance
companies.

Health care costs would rise because of increased administrative costs for
private insurance companies, as it is more expensive to underwrite policies for
individuals than it is for groups. We already spend $350 billion in unnecessary
administrative costs because of the private insurance industry.

Four economists reported their analysis of the McCain plan in the journal
"Health Affairs," concluding that it would radically transform the U.S health
insurance landscape, with little impact on the number of the uninsured, while
raising costs, reducing benefits, and leaving people with fewer consumer
protections.

The problems with our health care system are extremely serious. Projected health
care spending for 2008 is almost $2.4 trillion, which is close to $8,000 per
person. This represents 16.6 percent of the gross domestic product in the United
States. In spite of our spending on health care, which is twice that of any
other industrialized country in the world, 46 million Americans remain
uninsured. Many more are underinsured and have to pay so much in out-of pocket
costs that they forego needed health care, even though they have health
insurance.

According to a Commonwealth Fund study, there was a 60 percent increase in the
number of the underinsured between 2003 and 2007. The underinsured tend to defer
preventive care, choosing not to get mammograms or have their cholesterol
checked. Underinsured adults with chronic conditions are not filling their
prescriptions. Being underinsured affects personal health, as well as the cost
of providing health care in our country, since not getting needed health care
only means bigger health care bills down the road when the problems are more
serious.

I agree with Senator McCain that it is time for a radical change in our health
care system, and I agree that health insurance should be divorced from
employment. But radical reform is useful only if it addresses the problems in
our current health care system, and McCain's plan does not do that.

A national single-payer health program, administered by the government rather
than private insurance companies, would cover everyone, provide more
comprehensive benefits, and do so without raising health care costs. With the
$350 billion saved in administrative costs, everyone could have health insurance
coverage. And national health insurance has a proven track record in other
countries, where health care costs are lower and people live longer.
Single-payer health care reform is the only meaningful reform, and is now
supported by 15,000 members in Physicians for a National Health Program (
www.pnhp.org ).

Susanne L. King, M. D., is a Lenox-based practitioner.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                              July 13, 2015 Monday

Avoid a big headache - With the high cost of medical care and youngsters
vulnerable to infections, health insurance is a worthwhile investment

LENGTH: 902  words


Patchaporn Charoenkhuntham was taken aback when she saw the medical bill for
chickenpox treatment of her four-month-old son. Two nights at a private hospital
cost her almost 25,000 baht.

"The cost of treatment was very high. The hospital charged for everything, down
to every single pill," she recalls.

Just as well that she had health insurance for him. It paid 20,000 baht of the
bill, leaving only 5,000 for her to cough up.

With the high cost of medical care, it is worthwhile to take out health
insurance for children, who can easily get infected with diseases, bugs or
diarrhoea from kindergartens and schools, she says.

Mrs Patchaporn paid 12,000 baht for her son's health insurance last year and
about 14,000 this year.

"I will continue to buy health insurance for my son to prevent us from being
drawn into a financial mess from the medical bills," she says.

As her son's health insurance is part of her company's group health insurance
plan, it is cheaper and also covers outpatient treatment.

Healthcare costs in Thailand are rising at breakneck speed. Flu treatment at a
private hospital costs around 1,500 baht, while a room is charged at more than
3,000 baht a night.

According to Bangkok Hospital's website, inpatients need to pay 6,390 to 8,650
baht a night for a standard room, 13,250 to 14,550 for a deluxe room, and 12,950
to 18,550 for a superior room. The rates cover costs of the ward, nursing care,
hospital services and meals.

If you can afford it, a health insurance policy that provides both inpatient and
outpatient cover is recommended.

However, this kind of insurance is more expensive. For instance, annual premiums
of Bupa's crystal health insurance policy for children aged one to six are
31,713 baht covering a 2,000-baht room and 700-baht outpatient treatment costs.
Premiums rise to 37,011 baht for a 3,000-baht room and 45,052 baht for a
4,000-baht room.

For those who want a cheaper policy, adding a health insurance rider to a life
insurance policy is a choice. This policy covers only the cost of inpatient
treatment, however.

Children aged one and above can be covered by single health insurance, while
life insurance bundled with health insurance is available to those aged from one
month old.

There are two types of life insurance - whole life insurance and savings life
insurance.

Whole life insurance is a savings policy that returns savings to insurance
beneficiaries when the child dies or reaches the age of 90. This insurance type
provides longer-term protection and the premiums are low. Its disadvantage is
that the chances of parents getting the savings back are lower, as the child
will almost certainly outlive them.

Savings life insurance is a long-term savings scheme in which children receive
the money when the policy is due. The terms of the policy range from five to 30
years. The most popular are for 20 and 25 years, as they cover healthcare costs
of children until they graduate and start working.

Insurance companies have the right to deny some health coverage for children
with poor health or with a congenital disease.

Premiums depend on hospital room rates and types of riders. The annual premium
for savings insurance plus a health insurance rider is around 20,000 baht for
children, with coverage of 5,000 baht per room a night.

Natthapong Apinankul, an independent certified financial planner, recommends
that parents pay as little as possible for life insurance for their children but
pay more for health insurance to cover as much as possible.

Parents should also consider riders for income compensation. Even though
children do not work, parents often need to take time off work when their
children are is hospital. Income protection will also compensate when medical
expenses are higher than health insurance cover.

If parents' companies offer healthcare cover for their children, they could pay
less for individual medical care insurance premiums.

The health condition of children is another factor that has to be considered.
The more often children get sick, the higher the premium parents will pay.

The reputation of insurance companies and agents is another concern, as money
locked in an insurance policy is not guaranteed by the Deposit Protection Agency
in cases where insurers go bust.

Mr Natthapong recommends people buy medical and health insurance policies from
professional agents who are able to help when problems emerges during the claims
process.

"If buying from a bank, you must ask how to claim medical expenses, whether the
bank has an expert or a specialist to help when problems occur, and how many
days the expert will come to the bank and how to contact them," he says.

Before taking out health insurance for children, Mr Natthapong suggests that
parents, especially those earning an income, should be insured first to avert
financial hardship when any unexpected incident happens.

"You [the income generator] are the most important person among the family
members and you should have protection coverage before buying insurance for
children," he says.

To make sure other family members will not slip into financial stress, the
insured sum should be enough to cover expenses for at least two years.

Moreover, family money reserved for an emergency should cover family expenses
for at least three to six months.

"A cash reserve for an emergency is really important because remedies for some
illnesses can cost a lot," says Mr Natthapong.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Deming Headlight (New Mexico)

                            November 16, 2014 Sunday

Hospital seeks to educate, enroll uninsured

BYLINE: By Headlight Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1413 words


DEMING &GT;&GT; As part of the Affordable Care Act, most U.S. citizens were
required to have health insurance beginning in 2014. In 2015, there is a penalty
if you're not excluded for a particular reason. Wondering why health insurance
is so important, the Headlight sat down with Steve Westenhofer, CEO of Mimbres
Memorial Hospital to find out.

DH: What is health insurance?

Westenhofer: Health insurance is a contract between you and an insurance
company. When you buy a plan or policy, you pay a monthly fee and in return, the
company agrees to pay part of your medical expenses when you get sick or hurt.

DH: Why is it important that citizens have health insurance?

Westenhofer: While no one plans to get sick or hurt, most people need medical
care at some point. Did you know the average cost of a three-day hospital stay
is $30,000? Or that fixing a broken leg can cost up to $7,500? Having health
insurance helps protect you from unexpected costs like these. Your insurance
policy will outline what types of care, treatments and services are covered,
including how much the insurance company will pay for different treatments in
different situations.

DH: Is having health insurance mandatory?

Westenhofer: Yes, with few exceptions, most U.S. citizens are required to have
health insurance under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was
signed into law in 2010. Those who do not have minimum essential health coverage
like through an employer   and don't qualify for an exemption, will have to pay
a penalty fee if they don't get health insurance.

DH: What is that penalty?

Westenhofer: If you can afford health insurance coverage in 2015, but don't sign
up, you will have to pay a penalty ($325 per adult, $162.40 per child   up to
$975 per family or 2 percent of income whichever is higher). And without
insurance, you'll be financially responsible for all of your medical costs.

DH: Who is exempt from having to get health insurance?

Westenhofer: The list is long, but here are a few reasons why a person might be
exempt:

Coverage is unaffordable coverage (more than 8 percent of household income)

You are a member of federally recognized tribe

You are below tax filing threshold and not required to file taxes

You have been uninsured for less than three consecutive months during the year

DH: When can a person purchase health insurance?

Westenhofer: For the Health Insurance Marketplace, enrollment periods are only
for a specified time during the year. The next enrollment period is from
November 15, 2014 through February 15, 2015. You can only purchase insurance
outside of that time period if you have a qualifying life event, such as a
marriage, divorce, new baby, and change of income, to name a few.

You are considered covered if you have Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, any job-based
plan, any plan you've purchased yourself, COBRA, retiree coverage, Tricare, VA
health coverage.

DH: How much does health insurance cost?

Westenhofer: Each plan varies in terms of overall cost and depends on the amount
of premium and deductible you choose. The premium is the amount of money charged
for a certain amount of insurance coverage each year. You may also have an
annual deductible. This is the amount you must pay out of your pocket before the
insurance company will pay any expenses. For example, let's say you have a plan
with a $200 deductible. You go to the doctor and the total cost is $250. You pay
the first $200 to cover the deductible, and then your insurance pays its share.
How much you pay for your premium and deductible depends on the type of
insurance you have and whether you're purchasing individual or family coverage.

DH: What types of plans are there?

Westenhofer: There are four levels of qualified health plans on the Health
Insurance Marketplace: platinum, gold, silver, and bronze. Each category has a
different monthly premium costs, as well as deductible. There are a lot of
affordable options on the Health Insurance Marketplace and you can compare each
plan side by side so you can find the plan that meets you and/or your family's
needs.

DH: Is there any help available if you can't afford health insurance?

Westenhofer: The federal government can assist some individuals and families
with their premiums costs by providing subsidies to those who qualify based on
their income. For example, if a family of four had an income of about $40,000 in
2014, they may be eligible for subsidy assistance on premium costs that exceed 5
percent of their income. If that same family of four purchases a Silver plan
that might cost them around $9,400 per year, they could eligible to receive
subsidy assistance of up to almost $7,400; which means they would only be
responsible for about $2,000 of the insurance premium costs themselves.

DH: What if you have a preexisting condition like a previous cancer, a diabetes
diagnosis or are pregnant?

Westenhofer: You cannot be excluded from coverage for any preexisting condition.
And, equally important, parents can cover their children up to age 26 on their
insurance plan.

DH: What do I need to do if I enrolled last year and have coverage?

Westenhofer: The federal government has announced that for those consumers who
are already enrolled in a Marketplace plan in 2014, they will have an automatic
enrollment option to select the same health plan coverage in 2015. Of course,
these individuals and families have the option to shop for other coverage
choices, as well. The Marketplace enrollment tools spell out the steps consumers
will need to take for either the option to auto-enroll in the same health
insurance coverage, or to shop for other choices.

DH: What else does a health insurance cover?

Westenhofer: In addition to pre-existing conditions, all qualified health plans
must offer:

Ambulatory patient services

Hospitalization and emergency services

Maternity and newborn care

Mental Health and substance use disorder

Prescription drugs

Lab services

Preventive and wellness services

Chronic disease management

Pediatric services, including dental and vision care

Of course, you have to meet your deductible before insurance pays.

DH: I've also heard that qualified health plans cover preventive care services
at no charge.

Westenhofer: Yes, qualified plans cover many preventive care screenings, tests
and services such as vaccinations that can help adults and children stay
healthy. And the best news is, they're free   no copays or deductibles.
Depending on your age, gender and other risk factors, your doctor may tell you
it's time for a mammogram, colonoscopy or other screening that can detect cancer
or disease in its earliest, most treatable stages. Or, it may be time to screen
for high blood pressure or high cholesterol to give your doctor information that
can help prevent a stroke or heart attack.

For women, many preventive care screenings, tests and supplies that can help
with family planning and pregnancy are now covered, along with services such as
these:

Well-woman checkups

Contraceptives and birth control counseling

Screenings during pregnancy for a variety of conditions

Breastfeeding supplies, support and counseling

DH: Besides a health insurance plan on the Health Insurance Marketplace, what
other types of health insurance are available?

Westenhofer: Many families with limited income will qualify for Medicaid or
Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and they can enroll any time of the
year. Medicaid provides health coverage for some low-income people, families and
children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people with disabilities. In some
states the program covers all low-income adults below a certain income level.
CHIP provides low-cost health coverage to children in families that earn too
much money to qualify for Medicaid. In some states, CHIP covers parents and
pregnant women. Each state offers CHIP coverage, and works closely with its
state Medicaid program.

DH: How can local, uninsured residents find help with enrollment?

Westenhofer: As a service to our community Mimbres Memorial Hospital can help
uninsured residents review coverage options on the Health Insurance Marketplace,
or determine eligibility for Medicaid. We can also assist with re-enrollment or
with special enrollment if someone has had a life change, such as a marriage,
divorce, job loss, etc.

All they need to do is schedule an appointment with one of our application
coordinators by calling 546-5890. We also have Spanish-speaking representatives
available to assist.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Westenhofer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2014 Deming Headlight, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               July 24, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

COUNTY WORKERS FACE HIGHER DEDUCTIBLES, OTHER HEALTH CARE COSTS;
INSURANCE WILL KEEP SAME PRICE

BYLINE: Phil Sutin Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: WEST POST; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 549 words


St. Louis County employees generally will continue to pay the same amount for
their health insurance but will face more out-of-pocket costs for medical care.

Last week, the council ordered changes in the county's coverage.

In the most used county health-insurance plan, employees would have to pay a
$250 deductible for medical services except for doctor's office visits; the
current plan has no deductible. The insurance then would pay 80 percent of the
cost up to $5,000 and all the cost above that amount. Currently, the insurance
covers 100 percent of the cost.

The cost of prescription drugs would increase to $10 from $6 for generic ones;
$25 from $20 for preferred brand drugs; and $40 from $35 for nonpreferred brand
drugs.

The county would continue to pay for health insurance for employees. Coverage
for family members would remain at $337 a month for the most popular plan.

The county would offer a new option of employee plus one other person at a cost
of $204 a month for the most popular plan. The county is providing a
catastrophic health insurance plan that is less expensive than the most-used one
but offers fewer benefits.

The county also would switch insurance companies with Group Health Plan
replacing Cigna. Group Health said the county would save 4 percent in health
insurance costs under the new plans, Kirk McCarley, personnel director, said in
a memorandum. Group Health also agreed to limit any rate increase to 17.2
percent in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, 2004.

James Baker, director of administration, said 95 percent of county employees
could keep the same doctors when the county switches insurance companies.

People who use health insurance more often would pay more under the new plan,
Baker said. About 75 percent of county employees had county health insurance
only on themselves, he said. The rest pay for family coverage and very few
employees have no county insurance.

On other matters, Councilmen Charlie Dooley, D-Northwoods, and Skip Mange,
R-Town and Country, introduced a bill that would allow solicitors for charity to
seek donations at designated major intersections in the unincorporated area from
sunrise to sunset. They recently persuaded the council to limit the hours to 9
a.m. to 5 p.m., but received a complaint that the limit hindered fund raising in
rush hours. Mange said the complaint made a good point.

The council had cut to three from six the number of days solicitors can seek
donations at designated major intersections in the unincorporated area.

Recently, County Executive George "Buzz" Westfall told the council he had
appointed William Sneed of Oakville to the planning commission. The term of
Sneed, who is retired, would end on Dec. 31, 2005. He would replace Patricia
Ottoline, whose term expired.

The county council must confirm the appointment before Sneed can join the
commission.

The council recently also granted Metro permission to construct a three-level
parking structure with 650 spaces on part of the current parking lot for the
North Hanley MetroLink station. Eventually, a developer may build a conference
center on top of the parking garage.

The council started its three-week summer break. The next council meeting is
scheduled for Aug. 12.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phil Sutin:; E-mail: psutin@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-863-2812; * Note: The North Post, page 4, used GHP instead of Group Health
in paragraph 7. GHP said . . . and GHP also agreed . . .

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              235 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                    April 04, 2001 Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

City predicts insurance woes in '02

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos; TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 580 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER



- The good news is the health insurance rate caps the city negotiated with its
insurance carriers three years ago will save $6.8 million for the fiscal year
beginning July 1.

That is in addition to an estimated savings of $4.7 million for the current
fiscal year.

The bad news, however, is the rate caps will expire in June 2002.

City Manager Thomas R. Hoover last night said the city can then expect premium
rates to escalate significantly because of rising health care costs, coupled
with having such artificially low premiums the last three years.

Mr. Hoover informed the City Council last night that the city's health insurance
costs for fiscal 2003 could increase by as much as $16 million, raising its
total health insurance costs to $51.7 million.

If premium rates increase as projected, then various plan alternatives, payment
options and benefits will need to be reviewed to minimize premium costs,'' Mr.
Hoover wrote in a report to the council.  Health insurance rates this high will
severely impact upon other city services -- this is something that I intend to
work diligently to avoid.''

The manager's warning caught the attention of several city councilors, who said
the city should start planning now for the future.

Councilor-at-Large Dennis L. Irish called the health insurance report
sobering.'' He said if the city does not make changes or modifications to its
health insurance benefits, those costs could end up exceeding more than 5
percent of the total city budget.

This is truly a budget buster,'' Mr. Irish said.  Steps have to be taken to
control these costs. They could be painful steps if we have to modify our
benefits or ask employees to pay a greater share of those costs. Otherwise, we
could be looking at some serious reductions in other areas of our budget.''

District 1 Councilor Stephen T. Patton said the projections made by the manager
are highly speculative, but he acknowledged that the trend in health care is a
dramatic increase in costs, especially in the area of prescriptions.

We are looking at a potentially dreadful scenario and that is why we have to
begin to take a look at how we are going to deal with this,'' Mr. Patton said.

Mr. Hoover said it is important for city employees, through their
representatives on the Insurance Advisory Committee, to work with the city
administration to look at benefits design, employee contributions, and all other
aspects of the city's health insurance programs to find a way to reduce those
costs.

The council referred the manager's report to its Health and Finance committees.

In other business, the City Council:

Asked the city manager for a report on whether other cities in the state allow
their employees to serve on municipal boards and commissions. The council, led
by Councilor-at-Large Timothy P. Murray, would like to see the city manager
adopt a policy allowing municipal employees to serve on those boards and
commissions where their employment would not present a conflict of interest.

Mr. Hoover said he opposes such a policy because he would like to get as many
people as possible involved in their city government, whether it be through
employment with the city or by serving on a board or commission.

Approved the filing and acceptance of Federal Aviation Administration and
Massachusetts Aeronautics Commission grants totaling $1.9 million to fund
projects in the Worcester Regional Airport's capital improvement plan.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              236 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                            November 13, 2006 Monday
                           BLACKSTONE VALLEY EDITION

Northbridge has big insurance tab Officials try to control deficit

BYLINE: Linda Bock, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1085 words

DATELINE: NORTHBRIDGE


In a town that is still facing a huge deficit this year and that owns 90 percent
of the health care costs for its employees, officials are beginning to take a
look at what was described as the "Cadillac" of health insurance benefits in
light of dramatically escalating costs.

The intense health-care discussions were fueled by a still-unbalanced fiscal
2007 budget. Town officials warned taxpayers that even if the town uses $2.1
million in one-time revenues to help balance the budget at the Nov. 21 annual
fall town meeting, the town is now looking at a $1.9 million deficit for fiscal
2007, which began July 1.

Part of the deficit is attributed to health insurance costs, and officials
recently had their health insurance consultants give a presentation to get a
better idea of the growing costs, including an additional $464,000 or more in
health insurance costs for the fiscal year that ended June 30, in the incurred
but not reported account. Officials learned a couple of months ago of the need
to raise $464,000 more as the result of the yearly audit.

Kenneth Lombardi, Jack Dolan and Edward Byrnes of South Dennis-based EBS Foran
Insurance and Advisory Services Inc. met with town officials on Nov. 2.

"You need to take corrective action to ensure the health insurance plan remains
financially solvent,'' Mr. Lombardi said.

In May 2002, the town established a Health Claims Trust Fund allowing the town
to self-insure for health insurance only, a move that was taken in hopes of
saving money. The plan took effect July 1, 2002, and Mr. Lombardi said the
self-insurance plan continues to challenge the town's budget. The town pays the
health insurance claims of town employees.

Employees of Northbridge pay 10 percent and the town picks up the other 90
percent in the cost of health insurance benefits for current employees, and
employees pay a $5 co-pay per visit to a doctor's office. The plan also includes
retirees until they reach age 65 and qualify for Medicare. The retirees pay 32
percent, and the town picks up 68 percent of the cost of the health insurance
benefits. Those benefits are negotiated as part of schools, police, fire and
Department of Public Works union contracts; the School Department is currently
in negotiations.

For the first year, the town expected to pay about $3.1 million for about 40
employees who opted for the plan, and their families. By fiscal 2005 and fiscal
2006, the plan started to run into a large number of claims and increased
enrollments, according to Mr. Lombardi. The recent message was clear: The town
definitely has increased claims costs, and with the first four months of fiscal
2007 on the books, "We've trended $4.75 million in claims and administrative
costs," Mr. Lombardi said. There are approximately 1,000 members in town, with
three to five large claims of over $100,000.

"We have a responsibility to talk about this,'' Mr. Lombardi said. He said the
average trend of rising costs has been about 13 percent per year. "The revenue
numbers will have to grow dramatically to cover costs."

Projecting those trends, it will cost taxpayers $7 million to fund health
insurance benefits for town employees by fiscal 2010. Mr. Lombardi said, "You
have one of the best contribution arrangements in the area."

Mr. Lombardi said, considering the immediate concerns, the town may need to
modify its rates and may have to charge a surcharge if there is a deficit.

Additionally, he said the town may wish to see if it could get a lower health
insurance proposal through a bid process. Mr. Lombardi said the town offers some
of the best health care plans in the country.

"We need to bring employees health plans into a contemporary health care plan,"
Mr. Lombardi said.

The co-pays employees contribute here are far lower than for most people,
according to Mr. Lombardi. Later in his presentation he said, "As enrollment
increases, 90/10 is pretty extreme."

"Most health plans today are $25 for an office visit," Mr. Lombardi said, not
the $5 co-pay employees now pay. He said the town should consider taking a look
at co-pays. Mr. Lombardi said, "You've got the Cadillac of health plans."

To stem the tide of double-digit inflation, Mr. Lombardi suggested that the town
increase the co-pays for office visits, encourage employees to take advantage of
flexible spending accounts and encourage the use of mail-order drug programs.
For example, instead of an employee paying a co-pay every month for prescription
drugs, an employee could pay one co-pay for a 90-day supply of prescription
drugs through a mail-order plan. Mr. Lombardi said part of solution is to make
employees better consumers.

Years ago, Mr. Lombardi said, there was a positive fund balance, but the recent
problem occurred in part because of new state Department of Revenue regulations
approved in 2005. As part of the regulations, an estimate of the incurred but
not reported liability (INBR) must be included in the basic financial statements
and the amount of any deficit, if not otherwise provided for, must be raised on
the subsequent year's tax rate or provided for in the appropriate budget. For
Northbridge, that means for fiscal 2006 and later, any deficit in the health
claims trust fund must be eliminated, or the town must raise the deficit amount
the following fiscal year.

Selectmen allowed questions and comments at the end of the presentation.

Russell H. Vanderbaan of Chipper Hill Road had both.

"I think we're in a crisis,'' Mr. Vanderbaan said. "The benefits are too rich,
too robust, too out of line with private employees."

Mr. Vanderbaan said the health insurance costs are crippling the town, and he
asked officials to consider the impact when they are in collective bargaining.

"I think my recommendation is: No other issues on the table except health
insurance,'' Mr. Vanderbaan said. "There has to be an increase in co-pays, and
prescription drugs are unreasonably low. The town needs to act now. In my
opinion, (health insurance benefits) are a silent wage increase every year."

He also questioned why the town could not institute some initiatives, such as
charging extra premiums for smokers and paying a bonus to employees who don't
take advantage of the health insurance benefits.

"You have to do it now,'' Mr. Vanderbaan said. "It absolutely can't wait."

Selectman William J. Audette, who served as a police officer in town for a
number of years, said, "Health insurance is burying us. Employees have to be
aware; the community is in big trouble. It's up to the employees to help us
out."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPH
Estimated health insurance premium costs, town of Northbridge

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Columbus Telegram (Nebraska)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday

Expect higher health insurance premiums, speaker says

BYLINE: Julie Blum, Columbus Telegram, Neb.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 441 words


Oct. 02--COLUMBUS -- Don't expect the cost of health insurance to decrease
anytime soon.

Some might have already seen an increase in their premiums. Others still could.
Delays in the Affordable Care Act are pushing back some of the higher prices
people might pay for coverage.

"The politicians in Washington do not want America to incur the full wrath and
the pain and suffering of the premium increases right around election time. That
is how it would have happened if it wasn't for the delays," said Scott Stevens,
president of NP Dodge Insurance in Omaha.

Stevens, who has been in the health insurance business for about 30 years, spoke
about the rising cost of health insurance Wednesday at a Leadership Columbus
event at the Columbus Area Chamber of Commerce.

He was speaking as part of the nonprofit Nebraska Healthcare Alliance, a group
of health providers, businesses and individuals that advocated for the
establishment of a state-based health insurance exchange.

The increases are coming because of the new fees, taxes and requirements of the
new law, like insurers having to cover people with pre-existing conditions.

"It's hard to argue that when you add all that to the insurance industry (that)
they are not going to react by raising the rates. We have already seen that,"
Stevens said.

Stevens said he wasn't giving a presentation to push a political agenda.
Instead, he said he wanted people to understand why their premiums could be
going up and what employers can do to deal with the increased cost of offering
insurance to workers.

He gave his own situation as an example. His premiums have gone up from $630 a
month to $770 in the last year, and his out-of-pocket costs rose from $5,000 to
$12,700 for his health insurance plan.

Employers do have a few options to deal with the increase by offering employees
a Health Reimbursement Arrangement, Health Saving Account or Flexible Spending
Account. Those accounts help employees cover out-of-pocket costs for health
insurance plans.

Some areas of the country aren't expected to see increases, like those on the
East Coast, because some of those states already had various aspects of the
Affordable Care Act in place. Those areas are actually expected to see decreases
in premiums. But for states in the Midwest, premium costs are projected to rise
significantly.

Citing a study by the Society of Actuaries, Stevens said there could be
increases as much as 80 percent over three years.

"We are in that realm for Nebraska," he said.

___ (c)2014 the Columbus Telegram (Columbus, Neb.) Visit the Columbus Telegram
(Columbus, Neb.) at www.columbustelegram.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141002-CU-Expect-higher-health-insurance
-premiums-speaker-says-1002-20141002

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CU


                        Copyright 2014 Columbus Telegram


                              238 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 27, 2004 Sunday
                               WASHINGTON EDITION

THE BURDEN OF BENEFITS;
HEALTH INSURANCE BEDEVILS SCHOOLS AT BUDGET TIME

BYLINE: MARY NIEDERBERGER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. W-1

LENGTH: 1485 words


School boards throughout the region share a major problem contributing to tax
increases as they adopt 2004-05 budgets.

Directors in nearly every district have been trimming in other budget areas or
raising taxes to pay employee health insurance premiums that continue to rise at
double-digit rates.

Unlike some other health insurance consortiums, the one serving Washington,
Fayette and Greene counties is healthy and has offered its members rebates in
recent years.

However, Peters faces a 21 percent rise in health insurance costs this year, or
roughly $3.2 million, Business Manager Dan Solomon said.

With 1 mill of taxes in Peters generating $250,000 in revenue, it takes 13 mills
of taxes to pay for health care costs, he said.

At roughly $1,000 a month for a family plan, health care totals more than half
of some employees' salaries, he said.

"You can't continue to absorb these kinds of costs," said Ken Gorton, Bethel
Park's finance and operations director, whose comment was echoed by school
finance officials throughout the area.

Among districts surveyed in Allegheny County, the increases range from 15
percent to 36 percent.

In Bethel Park, Gorton said the nearly 20 percent increase this year, coming
atop other increases the previous two, has created a 75 percent increase in
health care costs for the district in three years.

Bethel Park raised taxes by 2.59 mills and made significant personnel cuts to
balance its budget.

The situation isn't limited to school districts, of course. But employers in
private industry have been passing some increased costs to employees via higher
co-pay contributions to health insurance premiums.

School districts bound by labor contracts can't impose employee contributions
toward health insurance premiums. And both school and union officials expect
employee contributions toward health care to be on the table during the next
round of contract negotiations.

Contributing to steep increases in Allegheny County districts has been the
deficit experienced in recent years by the Allegheny County Schools Health
Insurance Consortium, through which most of the county's school districts
jointly purchase their insurance.

Because the deficit occurred during a time health care costs soared, premium
costs have spiked dramatically in the past several years.

However, steady increases in the costs charged by health care providers loom as
the major factor for the spikes in health insurance premiums.

That's according to Walt Michalski, chairman of the Allegheny County Schools
Health Care Consortium's 22-member board of trustees and also a staff
representative and health care adviser for the Pennsylvania Federation of
Teachers.

Early retirement packages offered to school employees also contribute to higher
health care costs for schools, said Gwen Walker, director of fiscal services for
the Keystone Oaks School District.

Keystone Oaks will see a 17 percent increase in health care costs this year atop
a 20 percent increase last year, she said. In dollar amounts, that means a
$450,000 increase in health care costs that will total $3.2 million.

The Chartiers Valley School District is seeing a 16 percent increase in its
health insurance cost, which is $1.1 million more than it paid last year.

But a tight budget and increases in real estate and earned income tax revenue
allowed the district to avoid a tax increase this year, Fiscal Management
Director Charles Koch said.

In Mt. Lebanon, the increase in health insurance premiums is $1.9 million, or a
36 percent increase, accounting for nearly 1 mill of taxes, Fiscal Affairs
Director Jan Klein said. And that follows a similar increase last year.

The Mt. Lebanon board raised taxes 2.6 mills for 2004-05. Bethel Park also chose
to raise taxes to fund increased costs of health insurance and other items.

But that's a luxury not afforded to the Duquesne City School District, which is
financially distressed and under the direction of a state-appointed board of
control.

The 15 percent increase in Duquesne's health insurance costs requires an
additional $400,000 in the district's $12 million budget. That would take a tax
increase of 5 mills, a leap that residents of the district simply can't afford,
Business Manager William McNamee said.

Some school officials worry that taxpayers will think the current round of tax
increases in districts are the result of poor management.

"But when you face a 26 percent increase and hundreds of thousands of dollars
and that represents half of a budget increase, it looks like you are not
managing well," Quaker Valley School Superintendent Gerard Longo said.

His is one of the few local school districts where employees pay part of the
cost of their health insurance, thanks to a contract negotiated four years ago.

For a family plan, teachers pay about 5 percent of the $13,000 annual premium,
which amounts to about $600 a year, Longo said. "We've done more than anybody to
get this under control. Still we are faced with a $701,000 increase."

Longo said he had realized the value of health insurance since being diagnosed
with lymphoma several years ago. "I am currently doing OK, but the cost of my
treatments would have bankrupted my family if we did not have insurance," he
said.

Claims for cancer treatments, cardiac bypass surgery and transplant surgeries
are among the highest claims paid by the Allegheny County Schools Health
Insurance Consortium.

The Allegheny County Health Care Consortium, which covers 18,000 employees and
about 45,000 people, offers health insurance through the Highmark networks. But
it is self-insured and pays its own claims.

The consortium has debated whether to carry underwriters insurance for
catastrophic claims, Michalski said. But in recent years, the trustees have
found that paying the claims costs about the same as the annual premium on such
an insurance policy.

As a union negotiator, Michaski expects school district officials to raise
co-payments on premiums as a negotiation issue in upcoming contracts.

Historically, school employees have not paid anything toward their health care
because unions have negotiated that, said Wayne Smith, assistant executive
director for insurance services for the Pennsylvania School Boards Association.

But with health insurance costs rising faster than any other cost incurred by
school districts, it's certain that co-payments on premiums will be an issue for
negotiations in upcoming contracts, he said.

Michalski argued that forcing school employees to share the costs isn't the
answer. "Passing on the costs whether half or 5 percent doesn't do anything to
control the costs. Labor and management should join together to fight these
costs in health care."

The consortium, he said, is working on a variety of efforts to cut costs,
including changes to co-payments on office visits and prescriptions.

The changes will require people who see a specialist to pay a $15 co-pay when
they now pay nothing.

For prescription drugs, the changes will offer lower costs to members who accept
generic drugs and mail order their prescription drugs in larger numbers,
Michalski said.

He said union leaders had led the charge in making changes to the prescription
drug components of benefits plans rather than seeing members make payments
toward their premiums.

These changes can be imposed immediately on employees in districts where
contract wording states that employees will receive the health plan that is
offered by the consortium.

But contracts written to spell out specific benefits that employees will receive
cannot be changed unless the changes are negotiated.

The consortium also is auditing all of the charges against the programs to make
sure it is paying only for those services charged and to make sure that the
school districts have only people included in their health plans who are
supposed to be included.

Auditors also are checking to make sure that claims by people older than 65 are
being charged to Medicare, not to the consortium plan.

Another cost-saving goal of the program is to have just one plan offered
eventually by the consortium and employees of all districts that are part of the
consortium enrolled in that single plan.

Perhaps the most cost-saving and life-saving effort undertaken by the consortium
is development of a wellness program to offer nutrition, exercise and
preventative medical advice to its members.

Highmark and pharmaceutical companies are working with consortium officials on
this effort.

Michalski said the programs could encourage teachers to form lunchtime groups in
which they monitor each other's eating habits and, perhaps, walk on the school
track for regular exercise. They also could offer blood pressure screenings to
identify people at risk for strokes and heart attacks and do osteoporosis
screenings.

The goal is to have employees lead healthier lives, to provide support, services
and programming and change their lifestyles and result in fewer claims in the
future.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mary Niederberger can be reached at mniederberger@post-gazette.com or
412-851-1866.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Daniel Marsula/Post-Gazette

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              239 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           November 14, 2015 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Health fund crisis a generational issue;
The economy

BYLINE: Alan Mitchell

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 824 words


This could be the first really nasty battle of the long-predicted generation
wars. According to Health Minister Sussan Ley, Australians dumped or downgraded
half a million "all-inclusive" private health insurance policies last year as
record numbers switched to cheaper cover with exclusions and deductibles.

With premiums growing at 6 per cent to 7 per cent a year and with the health
insurance rebate means-tested and declining in real terms, people are trading
down or opting out of private health insurance. The young and healthy are
increasingly unwilling to pay the premiums needed to cover the healthcare costs
of the funds' elderly members.

Ley is trying to find a solution, but it won't be easy. To contain the budget
costs of Medicare, governments have pushed middle-income households into private
health insurance.

But the health funds have failed to curb cost inflation in private
fee-for-service healthcare.

The funds have always relied on young, healthy members to cross-subsidise the
old and infirm. The promised pay-off is that, eventually, it will be their turn
to be subsidised. But in the meantime they are paying premiums well in excess of
the immediate value of their membership.

With premiums rising at three times the rate of private-sector wages, the young
and healthy have also become restless.

To attract and keep younger members, the funds have offered cheaper policies
with exclusions and deductibles, and highly insured members are voting with
their feet.

Ley faces two problems. The low-cost policies have been problematic because
people have not fully understood the consequences of their decisions.

The more difficult problem for the government, however, is the impact on
healthcare finances.

Payouts by the insurance funds for hospital treatment rise dramatically with
members' age. The average annual payout for members in their early 20s is $400.
For those in their early 70s it is $3360.

The cost burden on younger members has grown and will continue to rise as the
population ages.

There are only four possible sources of the money needed to fund the healthcare
of the aged and infirm. It can come from the younger and healthier health fund
members, from taxpayers, from the aged themselves, and from the healthcare
suppliers.

The government could increase the health insurance rebate, which currently costs
$6 billion a year and is forecast to grow by almost 5 per cent a year over the
next three years. A large part of any increase would flow to the funds in higher
premiums.

However, the government has its own budget problems, and is unlikely to be a
willing volunteer.

The aged and infirm are also not good prospects because they can dump their
insurance and become public patients. They also vote, and after a lifetime of
cross-subsidising elderly patients themselves, they might not take kindly to
being "cheated" of their turn.

There is no sign of the healthcare professionals being ready volunteers. The
ophthalmologists strongly resisted the Labor government's efforts to adjust
their remuneration in line with technological change, and Ley has just signed
another five-year agreement to overpay the pharmacists for dispensing drugs
under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme.

That leaves the young and healthy.

Ley, who has launched a raft of reviews since she became the Health Minister, is
now surveying the public to see what they want from private health insurance.
The two questions that have created most interest relate to the extension of
private health insurance to cover the general practitioner consultations -
something that Ley now rules out - and the future of "community rating", which
effectively mandates the cross-subsidies.

However, the minister currently seems to be thinking in terms of directing the
health insurance rebate purely at hospital treatment, with the government
offering some kind of savings vehicle to help people cover non-hospital costs
such as dental care. About $2 billion of the $6 billion health insurance rebate
is now used to subsidise non-hospital costs.

That is a stop-gap measure, but since the government is about to launch into
ambitious tax and competition policy reform, it is hard to see it attempting
anything more ambitious in healthcare in the immediate future.

However, it is also hard to see how any government can keep the current system
going without both taking over more of the cost of elderly patients and
seriously reforming health insurance.

The health funds cannot contain costs because, unlike ordinary insurers, they
pay out on the first, rather than the last, part of their members' healthcare
bills.

That leaves the patient rather than the insurer to argue with the doctors about
the size of the bills - which is how the doctors like it.

Moreover, for those who want it, the health funds should have both the power and
incentive to purchase services on behalf of their members, along the lines of
the health maintenance organisations in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The cost burden of health insurance is falling on healthy young
people. PHOTO: ISTOCK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday

Soaring health care costs a challenge // More people insured, but treatment
costlier

BYLINE: Linda Bock

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


WORCESTER - It's no secret to Massachusetts health officials that the Obama
administration based its recent federal health care reform on what has happened
in the Bay State.

The Massachusetts experience includes having the highest percentage in the
nation (98 percent) of citizens with health care coverage but also the highest
health care costs in the country.

"This is the most expensive state in the country for delivering care," said Eric
H. Schultz, president and chief executive officer of Harvard Pilgrim Health
Care.

At a Research Bureau forum yesterday, regulators and providers debated the
merits of health care reform locally and nationally.

Mr. Schultz said the state's answer was to deal with insurance coverage first,
and then confront escalating costs. The panel agreed the time has come to figure
out how to make health care reforms sustainable.

"The health care, and health insurance discussion is significant on both
professional and personal levels," Mr. Schultz said. In 2006 between 500,000 and
700,000 people of the approximately 7 million residents were not covered by
health insurance. Today, between 140,000 and 150,000 are still not covered,
according to Mr. Schultz.

Massachusetts mandates all residents have health care and requires employers of
11 or more full-time employees to contribute toward health insurance. The
landmark legislation also expanded Medicaid coverage and created the
Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector.

More than 400,000 Massachusetts residents are newly insured over the past five
years. Over half obtain coverage through the Health Connector in either
subsidized or unsubsidized programs.

Lynn Nicholas, president and chief executive of the Massachusetts Hospital
Association, said the health care industry, legislators, employers and residents
must work to tackle the enormous problem of reining in unsustainable health care
costs. She said 57 percent of the state's health insurance costs are funded by
the federal government.

"We do have to get the cost base down," Ms. Nicholas said. She said the health
care industry, including major hospital systems, are in the process of revamping
and reworking health insurance plans.

The panel said medical and technological innovation, as well as consumer
transparency, are some initial ways to try and contain costs.

Lora M. Pellegrini, president and chief executive of the Massachusetts
Association of Health Plans, said the state is doing an amazing job of health
insurance coverage. "The problem is can we afford it?" she said.

Ms. Pellegrini said the recession is severely impacting the state's economy. She
said there is a current study that shows 40 percent of mortgages in the state
are under water.

Those harsh economic realities present a huge challenge to sustaining health
care as health care costs continue to rise.

"The future of health reform depends on whether Massachusetts can sustain health
care reform," Ms. Pellegrini said. She said the state is the health care reform
incubator and the Obama administration is watching.

The No. 1 reason for the state's high health care costs is the market power of
some providers in the region, Ms. Pellegrini said.

State officials have been studying what is driving health care costs, and
payment reform.

Ms. Pellegrini said there is a good chance there will be some sort of government
intervention to fix the unsustainable costs of health care.

"Does the government just take it over and try to fix it?" Mr. Schultz asked.

"Does the market fix it? Or somewhere in between?"

ART: GRAPH

CUTLINE: Uninsured in Mass.

PHOTOG: T&G Staff

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORCESTER - It's no secret to Massachusetts health officials that the
Obama administration based its recent federal health care reform on what has
happened in the Bay State. The Massachusetts experience includes having the
highest percentage in the nation (98 percent) of citizens with health care
coverage but also the highest health care costs in the country.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Deming Headlight (New Mexico)

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday

Program seeks to educate, enroll uninsured

BYLINE: By Headlight Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1445 words


DEMING &GT;&GT; Mimbres Memorial Hospital seeks to educate and enroll uninsured
community members.

As part of the Affordable Care Act, most U.S. citizens were required to have
health insurance beginning in 2014. In 2015, there is a penalty if you're not
excluded for a particular reason. Wondering why health insurance is so
important, we sat down with Steve Westenhofer, CEO of Mimbres Memorial Hospital
to find out.

DH &GT;&GT; What is health insurance?

WESTENHOFER &GT;&GT; Health insurance is a contract between you and an insurance
company. When you buy a plan or policy, you pay a monthly fee and in return, the
company agrees to pay part of your medical expenses when you get sick or hurt.

DH: Why is it important that citizens have health insurance?

Westenhofer: While no one plans to get sick or hurt, most people need medical
care at some point. Did you know the average cost of a three-day hospital stay
is $30,000? Or that fixing a broken leg can cost up to $7,500?

Having health insurance helps protect you from unexpected costs like these. Your
insurance policy will outline what types of care, treatments and services are
covered, including how much the insurance company will pay for different
treatments in different situations.

DH: Is having health insurance mandatory?

Westenhofer: Yes, with few exceptions, most U.S. citizens are required to have
health insurance under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was
signed into law in 2010. Those who do not have minimum essential health coverage
like through an employer   and don't qualify for an exemption, will have to pay
a penalty fee if they don't get health insurance.

DH: What is that penalty?

Westenhofer: If you can afford health insurance coverage in 2015, but don't sign
up, you will have to pay a penalty ($325 per adult, $162.40 per child   up to
$975 per family or 2% of income whichever is higher). And without insurance,
you'll be financially responsible for all of your medical costs.

DH: Who is exempt from having to get health insurance?

Westenhofer: The list is long, but here are a few reasons why a person might be
exempt:

Coverage is unaffordable coverage (more than 8% of household income)

You are a member of federally recognized tribe

You are below tax filing threshold and not required to file taxes

You have been uninsured for less than three consecutive months during the year

DH: When can a person purchase health insurance?

Westenhofer: For the Health Insurance Marketplace, enrollment periods are only
for a specified time during the year. The next enrollment period is from
November 15, 2014 through February 15, 2015. You can only purchase insurance
outside of that time period if you have a qualifying life event, such as a
marriage, divorce, new baby, and change of income, to name a few.

You are considered covered if you have Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, any job-based
plan, any plan you've purchased yourself, COBRA, retiree coverage, Tricare, VA
health coverage.

DH: How much does health insurance cost?

Westenhofer: Each plan varies in terms of overall cost and depends on the amount
of premium and deductible you choose. The premium is the amount of money charged
for a certain amount of insurance coverage each year. You may also have an
annual deductible. This is the amount you must pay out of your pocket before the
insurance company will pay any expenses.

For example, let's say you have a plan with a $200 deductible. You go to the
doctor and the total cost is $250. You pay the first $200 to cover the
deductible, and then your insurance pays its share. How much you pay for your
premium and deductible depends on the type of insurance you have and whether
you're purchasing individual or family coverage.

DH: What types of plans are there?

Westenhofer: There are four levels of qualified health plans on the Health
Insurance Marketplace: platinum, gold, silver, and bronze. Each category has a
different monthly premium costs, as well as deductible. There are a lot of
affordable options on the Health Insurance Marketplace and you can compare each
plan side by side so you can find the plan that meets you and/or your family's
needs.

DH: Is there any help available if you can't afford health insurance?

Westenhofer: The federal government can assist some individuals and families
with their premiums costs by providing subsidies to those who qualify based on
their income.

For example, if a family of four had an income of about $40,000 in 2014, they
may be eligible for subsidy assistance on premium costs that exceed 5 percent of
their income. If that same family of four purchases a Silver plan that might
cost them around $9,400 per year, they could eligible to receive subsidy
assistance of up to almost $7,400; which means they would only be responsible
for about $2,000 of the insurance premium costs themselves.

DH: What if you have a preexisting condition like a previous cancer, a diabetes
diagnosis or are pregnant?

Westenhofer: You cannot be excluded from coverage for any preexisting condition.

And, equally important, parents can cover their children up to age 26 on their
insurance plan.

DH: What do I need to do if I enrolled last year and have coverage?

Westenhofer: The federal government has announced that for those consumers who
are already enrolled in a Marketplace plan in 2014, they will have an automatic
enrollment option to select the same health plan coverage in 2015. Of course,
these individuals and families have the option to shop for other coverage
choices, as well. The Marketplace enrollment tools spell out the steps consumers
will need to take for either the option to auto-enroll in the same health
insurance coverage, or to shop for other choices.

DH: What else does a health insurance cover?

Westenhofer: In addition to pre-existing conditions, all qualified health plans
must offer:

Ambulatory patient services

Hospitalization and emergency services

Maternity and newborn care

Mental Health and substance use disorder

Prescription drugs

Lab services

Preventive and wellness services

Chronic disease management

Pediatric services, including dental and vision care

Of course, you have to meet your deductible before insurance pays.

DH: I've also heard that qualified health plans cover preventive care services
at no charge.

Westenhofer: Yes, qualified plans cover many preventive care screenings, tests
and services such as vaccinations that can help adults and children stay
healthy. And the best news is, they're free   no copays or deductibles.
Depending on your age, gender and other risk factors, your doctor may tell you
it's time for a mammogram, colonoscopy or other screening that can detect cancer
or disease in its earliest, most treatable stages. Or, it may be time to screen
for high blood pressure or high cholesterol to give your doctor information that
can help prevent a stroke or heart attack.

For women, many preventive care screenings, tests and supplies that can help
with family planning and pregnancy are now covered, along with services such as
these:

Well-woman checkups

Contraceptives and birth control counseling

Screenings during pregnancy for a variety of conditions

Breastfeeding supplies, support and counseling

DH: Besides a health insurance plan on the Health Insurance Marketplace, what
other types of health insurance are available?

Westenhofer: Many families with limited income will qualify for Medicaid or
Children's Health Insurance Program, CHIP, and they can enroll any time of the
year. Medicaid provides health coverage for some low-income people, families and
children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people with disabilities. In some
states the program covers all low-income adults below a certain income level.
CHIP provides low-cost health coverage to children in families that earn too
much money to qualify for Medicaid. In some states, CHIP covers parents and
pregnant women. Each state offers CHIP coverage, and works closely with its
state Medicaid program.

DH: How can local, uninsured residents find help with enrollment?

Westenhofer: As a service to our community Mimbres Memorial Hospital can help
uninsured residents review coverage options on the Health Insurance Marketplace,
or determine eligibility for Medicaid.

We can also assist with re-enrollment or with special enrollment if someone has
had a life change, such as a marriage, divorce, job loss, etc.

All they need to do is schedule an appointment with one of our application
coordinators by calling 546-5890.

We also have Spanish-speaking representatives available to assist.

For more information, contact susie_nolte@chs.net or mail to: Susie Nolte, P.O.
Box 710, Deming, NM 88030. Phone: 575-546-5861.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Westenhofer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2014 Deming Headlight, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday

Soaring health care costs a challenge;
More people insured, but treatment costlier

BYLINE: Linda Bock, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


It's no secret to Massachusetts health officials that the Obama administration
based its recent federal health care reform on what has happened in the Bay
State.

The Massachusetts experience includes having the highest percentage in the
nation (98 percent) of citizens with health care coverage but also the highest
health care costs in the country.

"This is the most expensive state in the country for delivering care," said Eric
H. Schultz, president and chief executive officer of Harvard Pilgrim Health
Care.

At a Research Bureau forum yesterday, regulators and providers debated the
merits of health care reform locally and nationally.

Mr. Schultz said the state's answer was to deal with insurance coverage first,
and then confront escalating costs. The panel agreed the time has come to figure
out how to make health care reforms sustainable.

"The health care, and health insurance discussion is significant on both
professional and personal levels," Mr. Schultz said. In 2006 between 500,000 and
700,000 people of the approximately 7 million residents were not covered by
health insurance. Today, between 140,000 and 150,000 are still not covered,
according to Mr. Schultz.

Massachusetts mandates all residents have health care and requires employers of
11 or more full-time employees to contribute toward health insurance. The
landmark legislation also expanded Medicaid coverage and created the
Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector.

More than 400,000 Massachusetts residents are newly insured over the past five
years. Over half obtain coverage through the Health Connector in either
subsidized or unsubsidized programs.

Lynn Nicholas, president and chief executive of the Massachusetts Hospital
Association, said the health care industry, legislators, employers and residents
must work to tackle the enormous problem of reining in unsustainable health care
costs. She said 57 percent of the state's health insurance costs are funded by
the federal government.

"We do have to get the cost base down," Ms. Nicholas said. She said the health
care industry, including major hospital systems, are in the process of revamping
and reworking health insurance plans.

The panel said medical and technological innovation, as well as consumer
transparency, are some initial ways to try and contain costs.

Lora M. Pellegrini, president and chief executive of the Massachusetts
Association of Health Plans, said the state is doing an amazing job of health
insurance coverage. "The problem is can we afford it?" she said.

Ms. Pellegrini said the recession is severely impacting the state's economy. She
said there is a current study that shows 40 percent of mortgages in the state
are under water.

Those harsh economic realities present a huge challenge to sustaining health
care as health care costs continue to rise.

"The future of health reform depends on whether Massachusetts can sustain health
care reform," Ms. Pellegrini said. She said the state is the health care reform
incubator and the Obama administration is watching.

The No. 1 reason for the state's high health care costs is the market power of
some providers in the region, Ms. Pellegrini said.

State officials have been studying what is driving health care costs, and
payment reform.

Ms. Pellegrini said there is a good chance there will be some sort of government
intervention to fix the unsustainable costs of health care.

"Does the government just take it over and try to fix it?" Mr. Schultz asked.

"Does the market fix it? Or somewhere in between?"

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPH
Uninsured in Mass.
T&G Staff

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

Altoona school officials consider cost cuts on benefits

BYLINE: Julian Emerson, The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 672 words


May 12--Altoona school district officials are looking at reducing district
health insurance costs by 10 percent, and employees could see that savings if
they choose the district's basic plan.

But district workers enrolled in that plan would have access to fewer providers
compared with the current plan and could pay more for other options that would
be offered, district business manager Mike Markgren said.

Employees could choose other coverage options as part of a plan offered by
Marshfield-based Security Health Plan, but those options could cost them more
money, Markgren said.

"The proposals I am making would save the district 10 percent on health
insurance costs," Markgren said. "If teachers want to choose from among the more
expensive options we could offer, they would pay the difference."

The district is projected to pay about $2.2 million for health insurance this
school year and would save about $220,000 next school year if the board approves
the Security Health Plan as proposed. Security was the lowest among a half-dozen
companies, including its current provider, WEA, that submitted health insurance
bids.

School board members will discuss proposed changes to health insurance and
retirement benefits at a special board meeting at 12:30 p.m. Wednesday. Board
members also will discuss alterations to staff compensation, although the board
is unlikely to act on that proposal, district Superintendent Connie Biedron
said.

Currently teachers are compensated based on time worked and training/education
level. The new evaluation process would include such factors as leadership and
student achievement.

The district reduced health insurance payouts in recent years by mandating that
employees pay more for health care costs. Currently district staff pays 12.5
percent of insurance premiums. The cost of a family plan in the district rose
from $19,443 in 2007-08 to $25,541 in 2011-12 before dipping to $19,998 last
school year after staff increased payments.

District officials hope changes to the district's health insurance and
retirement plans will curb rising costs amid less state aid, allowing for the
retention of staff and programs in the process.

"It is time to look at making changes and seeing how best we can keep these
costs in line," Biedron said.  "We simply cannot continue to keep paying our for
these same plans year after year and keep this district solvent."

District retirement costs would be significantly reduced as proposed, Markgren
said. The district pays for retirees' health care costs from the time they
retire, as early as age 57 with full benefits, until they reach age 65 and are
eligible for Medicare. That figure topped $200,000 for some employees during the
eight years until they became Medicare eligible, Markgren said, a figure that
has been reduced to about $160,00 in recent years.

As part of the retirement plan the board will consider Wednesday, that figure
would be cut to a maximum of about $100,000, he said. That savings would be
possible because instead of that cost being tied to rising health care costs,
the district would pay it via a set annual cost.

The retirement proposal would cost more money initially because it would be
established at the same time the district is paying for current retirees,
Markgren said. But costs would be reduced dramatically with the new program in
future years, he said.

District administrators worked on teams that included staff members to discuss
health insurance changes. While staff members have concerns about the changes,
they realize they are needed given budget constraints, Biedron said.

Emerson can be reached at 715-830-5911, 800-236-7077 or julian.emerson@ecpc.com

--The Altoona school board will discuss proposed changes to health insurance,
retirement and staff compensation plans at a meeting at 12:30 p.m. Wednesday in
the district board room, 809 Seventh St. W.

___ (c)2015 the Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wis.) Visit the Leader-Telegram
(Eau Claire, Wis.) at www.leadertelegram.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150512-EW-Altoona-school-officials-consider-cost
-cuts-on-benefits-0512-20150512

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                       Copyright 2015 The Leader-Telegram


                              244 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2013 Allegheny County Bar Association
                              The Lawyers Journal

                                November 1, 2013

                                Lawyers Journal

                                15 Lawyers J. 5

LENGTH: 793 words

ARTICLE: HEALTH CARE LAW OFFERS PROTECTIONS IN ADDITION TO INSURANCE AND
SERVICES

NAME: by Sandy Niespodzianski

TEXT:
 [*5]  After years of debate about health care exchanges, we have reached open
enrollment for 2014. The federal exchange plans opened for business in October
for Jan. 1, 2014 effective dates.

   Now is the time to see what the benefits look like and more importantly, what
those benefits will cost. We will discuss the changes and provide guidance on
what to consider when navigating these new offerings.

   Provisions of the law that you need to understand include the following:

   . People will be required to have health insurance;

   . Health plans offered to people who purchase health insurance on their own
and those who get benefits from an employer with 50 or fewer employees must
include 10 core benefits, known as essential health benefits;

   . Many single people and working families may get money from the government
to help pay their health care coverage costs. This includes many people who are
not currently receiving help from the government;

   . There will also be a new way to buy health insurance known as the Health
Insurance Marketplace;

   . Rates for individual and small group plans with 50 or less employees will
be based on who will be covered under the health plan, their age, where they
live, whether they smoke, and the health plan selected.

   The health care law means more than having health insurance and getting many
services. It has features that protect you and your family. The law provides the
following protections:

   . You cannot be denied health insurance coverage;

   . Your health plan can only be cancelled if you commit fraud or do not pay
your bill;

   . There are no annual or lifetime limits on the amount your health insurer
will pay for essential health benefits;

   . Your health insurer cannot charge you more if you are sick.

   Having health insurance will be required as of Jan. 1, 2014 or you will be
required to pay a penalty. The penalty increases over the next few years and you
will be charged the greater of these amounts: 2014 penalty, $ 95 or 1 percent of
your taxable income; 2015 penalty, $ 325 or 2 percent of your taxable income;
2016 penalty, $ 695 or 2.5 percent of your taxable income.

   In 2014, all health plans offered to people who purchase their own health
insurance and small businesses must include a core set of essential health
benefits. Essential health benefits include preventive, wellness and
disease-management services, emergency care, ambulatory services,
hospitalization maternity and newborn services, pediatric services, prescription
drugs, laboratory services, mental health and substance abuse services, and
rehabilitation services.

   Insurers will cover 100 percent of the cost of many preventive services, such
as wellness visits, immunizations, screenings for cancer and other diseases.

   With the new health care law, the federal government is creating four levels
of coverage or metallic tiers for plans offered to individual and small group
businesses. Plans will be assigned one of these tiers based on how much of the
cost for health care services is covered by the health insurance company. The
categories are bronze, 60 percent; silver, 70 percent; gold, 80 percent; and
platinum, 90 percent.

   The categories will make it easier for you to compare health plans among
health insurance companies. Bronze plans will have the lowest monthly costs, but
will likely have higher cost-sharing when you use services. Platinum plans will
cost the most each month, but have a lower cost each time you need care.

   The government is committed to helping as many people as possible get health
insurance. They will be providing tax credits, or subsidies, to help people who
purchase their own insurance, including working families. The tax credits will
be based on how much money you make each year and the number of people in your
family.

   If you qualify, you may be able to get one of the following: free health
insurance through Medicaid; lower monthly premium costs plus a break on the cost
-sharing you pay each time you need medical care; or lower monthly premium
costs.

   The good news is that a health insurance tax credit/subsidy is not like a
regular tax credit that only gets applied on your tax return. It can be used
right away to help lower your costs. If you qualify for a tax credit, you decide
how it gets applied. You can decide to use all of your credit right away to
lower your monthly costs or you can apply a portion of it to your monthly costs
and use the rest as a credit on your taxes.

   You can also choose not to apply any of your tax credits right away and
instead take the whole credit on your tax return. You have control over how it
is used. If you use all or a portion of your tax credits right away, you have to
report them on your annual federal tax return.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceGeneral OverviewInsurance LawClaims &
ContractsCancellation & NonrenewalGeneral OverviewInsurance LawIndustry
RegulationInsurance Company OperationsTaxes on Premiums


                              245 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                  All Editions

INSURANCE REFORM

SECTION: Pg. A6

LENGTH: 419 words


The country's health insurance industry was praised last week for joining the
national debate over universal health coverage. Pledges to give up its ability
to reject people with pre-existing medical conditions and its longstanding
objection to guarantees of insurance coverage could represent a significant
change for the insurance industry. A major stumbling block to health insurance
and care reform, however, could be what the industry wants in exchange, perhaps
weak requirements for basic coverage.

America's Health Insurance Plans, an industry group that represents companies
that insure more than 200 million, last week unveiled its proposal for remaking
the health care system to lower costs and provide health insurance to all
Americans.

Much of their plan sounds like Dirigo Health, Maine's program for reducing
costs, improving quality and increasing coverage. The plan, like Maine's,
emphasizes preventative measures as a lower cost way to address costly and
chronic health problems. Like Dirigo, the AHIP plan aims to document the costs
and outcomes of medical procedures across the country to help consumers
determine what procedures are worthwhile and where best to have them done.

A bigger - and more difficult - problem to solve is slowing or stopping the
growth in health care costs.

According to AHIP, health care costs are projected to increase 6.6 percent
between 2010 and 2014. Slowing that growth to 4.7 percent would save $500
billion. The group doesn't say how costs should be decreased - that would left
up to a special commission - but it mostly points figures at health care
providers, without acknowledging the insurance industry's role in driving up
prices.

The plan would also move the neediest, and therefore most costly, people to
government programs or so-called high risk pools, segregated groups of people
who get a lot of health care services. Creating such pools can reduce costs for
the rest of the healthier population, but for those in the high risk pool,
insurance costs can become prohibitive, leaving them without coverage and,
therefore, access to health care.

The insurance industry must play a productive role in the upcoming debates about
improving health care and lowering costs. Ditto for businesses, both large and
small, as well as health care providers. The solution will contain change that
each of the groups does not like.

The AHIP proposal offers some worthwhile ideas, but much more is needed to
reform the system without harming the very people who depend on it.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 Bangor Daily News


                              246 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                                 March 24, 2013
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Cheaper options can help you keep health insurance

BYLINE: Louise McBride

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1351 words


ABOUT 200,000 of us have been forced to cancel our private health insurance over
the last four years - thanks to the recession, the last six austerity budgets
and massive private health insurance price hikes.

Now, on top of all that, the Government is hitting those of us who can still
manage to pay private health insurance with an even higher health insurance
levy.

When it was first introduced about four years ago, the health insurance levy
cost (EURO)160 per adult and (EURO)53 per child. By the end of this month, that
levy will have jumped to (EURO)350 per adult and (EURO)120 per child.

It''s no surprise then that a survey published last week found that one-third of
young families plan to cancel their private health insurance this year.

If you''re struggling to make ends meet but are reluctant to cut out your
private health insurance, moving to a cheaper plan could be an option.

The Sunday Independent lined up private health insurance expert Aongus Loughlin
of Towers Watson to recommend plans which might just allow you to hold onto your
insurance in these tough times. Loughlin''s quotes do not include group or
online discounts which could reduce the cost of your cover - if you qualify for
them.

YOUNG FREE & SINGLE You''re a 24-year-old single male who does not have any
kids. You rarely to go the doctor. You''re currently paying about (EURO)960 a
year for private health insurance - but you''ve taken a pay cut, so can''t
afford to pay this anymore. You want a cheaper plan which, at the very least,
offers good cover for treatment in a public hospital.

If you switch to Laya Healthcare''s Essential First plan, you could almost halve
the cost of your cover. This plan, which costs (EURO)504.40 is one of the
cheapest plans around, according to Loughlin. It provides full cover for a
semi-private room in a public hospital. If you pay monthly, you must also pay a
3 per cent administration charge, which brings the cost of your policy to
(EURO)519.53.

VHI Healthcare''s One Plan Starter, which costs (EURO)524.80, could also be
worth considering, according to Loughlin. This plan provides full cover for a
semi-private room in public hospitals.

Another plan tipped by Loughlin is Glo Health''s Basic plan. It costs
(EURO)556.50 per adult until March 31.

YOUNG FAMILY You''re a couple in your late 30''s with two children under the age
of three - a one-year-old toddler and a terrible three-year-old.

You''d currently be paying about (EURO)3,500 a year for private health insurance
.

Although you both work, the cutbacks and tax hikes of the last few years have
made it hard for you to make ends meet - so unless you get a cheaper private
health insurance plan, you''ll have to give it up. If you can hold onto your
insurance, your main priority is cover for a semiprivate hospital room.

You could save (EURO)1,609 if you opt for Glo Health''s Better Plan. This plan,
the cheapest recommended by Loughlin for the family, costs (EURO)842.50 per
adult and (EURO)206.54 per child over the age of three.

As children under the age of three are free under Glo''s Better Plan, the total
cost of your plan comes to (EURO)1,891.50 for the year.

Another plan that is recommended by Loughlin is Laya''s Total Health Choice
plan, which costs (EURO)2,295 for the family - or (EURO)2,364 if paying monthly.

One of the cheapest VHI plans is its PMI 2612 corporate plan, which costs
(EURO)2,533 this year for two adults and two children. The cheapest Aviva plan
recommended by Loughlin is Health Plan 05, which costs (EURO)2,561.20 for the
family.

"These plans provide cover for private rooms in public hospitals, as well as
cover for a semi-private room in a private hospital," said Loughlin.

The excess on these plans (the first part of the claim which you must pay
yourself) for treatment in a private hospital varies, depending on the insurer
you're with.

If you''re likely to require cover for hip replacements or eye surgery
operations, check the excess on a plan before you move as it can be as high as
(EURO)2,000 in some cases, warned Loughlin.

MIDDLE-AGED FAMILY You''re a couple in your 50s with three children - aged 12,
15 and 19. You''re paying almost (EURO)4,000 a year for private health insurance
.

As your eldest has just started college, you''ve recently had to cough up
(EURO)2,500 for college registration fees - so you can''t afford to pay
(EURO)4,000 a year for insurance anymore.

However you''d like to hold onto a plan that covers your family for a
semiprivate room in hospital. You could save between (EURO)983 and (EURO)1,484
this year by opting for one of the plans recommended by Loughlin. At a total
cost of (EURO)2,516.50, the cheapest plan tipped by Loughlin is Glo Health''s
Better Plan. The second cheapest is Laya''s Total Health Choice plan, which
costs (EURO)2,569 a year - or (EURO)2,646 if you pay monthly.

If the family go for VHI or Aviva plans recommended by Loughlin, they''ll pay a
few hundred euro more than they will at Glo or Laya - VHI''s PMI 2612 costs
(EURO)2,866.70 while Aviva''s Health Plan 05 costs (EURO)3,017.

All these plans include cover for a semi-private room in a private hospital.
Again, it''s important to check out any excesses that apply before choosing one
of these plans.

ELDERLY COUPLE You''re a couple in your 60s whose kids have all flown the nest.
At this stage in your lives, you want a plan that offers good hospital care.
However, you''re paying almost (EURO)8,000 a year for private health insurance
and as one of you has just recently retired, you can''t afford to pay that
anymore.

You could easily halve the cost of your private health insurance by choosing one
of the plans tipped by Loughlin.

The cheapest plan recommended by Loughlin is Laya''s Healthcare Healthwise Plus
(No Excess), which costs the couple (EURO)1,770 a year - or (EURO)1,823 if
paying monthly.

Other plans recommended by Loughlin are Aviva''s Level 2 Complete Health plan,
which costs the couple (EURO)3,527.20; Glo Health''s Ultra Plan, which costs
(EURO)3,596; and VHI''s Health Plus Extra (Plan B Options), which costs
(EURO)3,674. These plans offer semi-private care in a private hospital.

"The plans also provide cover for certain cardiac procedures if carried out in
the Mater Private or Blackrock Clinics," said Loughlin.

CASH PLANS If your financial circumstances mean you have no option but to go
without private health insurance, a health cash plan could be an option. These
plans cover day-today medical costs, such as GP, dental and consultant fees -
rather than hospital care.

The cost of HSF Health Plan for example - a cash plan offered by the Hospital
Saturday Fund - ranges from (EURO)114 to (EURO)972 a year.

"While HSF Health Plan does not cover a stay in a private hospital, it pays
grants of up to (EURO)120 per night for up to 40 nights stay in a public or
private hospital," said a spokeswoman for HSF.

BEFORE YOU SWITCH If you''re considering switching to another insurer, it is
usually best to wait until your renewal date. Otherwise, you could be hit with
penalties and other charges which could easily wipe out any savings you expect
to make.

Most insurers treat your health insurance as a 12-month contract. If you cancel
mid-way through that contract and you''re with Aviva, VHI and Glo Health, you
will usually have to pay the balance of any health insurance levy your insurer
has paid on your behalf - which you have not already paid for through premiums.

VHI will also hit you with an administration fee of (EURO)50 per policy, while
Aviva''s administration fee is (EURO)25 per policy.

"A VHI healthcare policy is a 12-month contract which can only be changed at a
customer''s renewal date or in clearly defined circumstances," said a
spokeswoman for VHI. "If a customer has incurred a claim since renewing, they
will be liable to pay the outstanding premium due to us until their next renewal
date."

A spokeswoman for Laya Healthcare said that customers who cancel their insurance
mid-year "are not eligible for a refund of the remainder of the 12-month policy,
regardless of whether a claim has been paid out on their behalf in that
membership year or not".

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Jamestown Sun (North Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday

BRIEF: Health insurance costs up at JPS

BYLINE: Katie Ryan, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 269 words


Jun. 22--Health insurance costs are up at Jamestown Public Schools and premiums
will likely triple, according to Superintendent Bob Toso.

Expenses are up about $500,000 for the self-funded program, Toso said at
Jamestown Public School Board's regular meeting Monday. The district had come
into the year with a balance above what it is required to carry, but that is
gone.

The Health Insurance Committee decided to increase premiums as opposed to adding
a user-fee like it had in years' past or increase deductibles.

The Health Insurance Committee will report more on the premium increase at a
board meeting in July.

Also, summer construction projects are mostly on schedule, Toso said. Some of
the projects include the remodeling of the pod area at Gussner Elementary,
windows at Roosevelt Elementary, Lincoln Elementary and the Jamestown Middle
School, and baffle pads at the Jamestown High School swimming pool.

The district is spending about $1 million worth of stimulus money on the
project.

The board also heard from Business Manager Sally Ost, who presented a balanced
budget for the 2010-2011 school year.

Sun reporter Katie Ryan can be reached at 701-952-8454 or by e-mail at
kryan@jamestownsun.com

To see more of The Jamestown Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.jamestownsun.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100622-QJ-BRF-Health-insurance-costs-up-at-JPS-0622

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QJ


                        Copyright 2010 The Jamestown Sun


                              248 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         La Crosse Tribune (Wisconsin)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday

Report cites dip in health insurance costs for small businesses

BYLINE: La Crosse Tribune, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 247 words


Dec. 18--Health insurance costs for small businesses in the La Crosse metro area
are projected to drop an average of 6.2 percent between 2014 and 2015, according
to a new report from Citizen Action of Wisconsin.

That compares with a 1.9 percent dip statewide, according to the report, which
Citizen Action released Wednesday at its headquarters in Milwaukee.

Based on a composite of the three lowest-cost, high-deductible gold and silver
plans available in the federal insurance marketplace, the La Crosse metro area's
small group single monthly premium is $415.38, better than the state average of
$436.16, not including tax subsidies under the Affordable Care Act, according to
the report.

The metro area's individual market is projected at $473.35 a month, not
including subsidies, ranking second to Superior's $475.52 and above the state
average of $409.16, according to Citizen Action.

For large groups, La Crosse ranks 12th at $777.46, compared with the state
average of $762.71. Nearly 80 percent of Wisconsin residents younger than 65 get
insurance through the large-group market, the report said.

Regarding inflation, La Crosse's large group premiums have risen 213 percent
since 2000, compared with the statewide average of 211 percent, but just 3
percent from 2014 to 2015, according to the Citizen Action study.

___ (c)2014 the La Crosse Tribune (La Crosse, Wis.) Visit the La Crosse Tribune
(La Crosse, Wis.) at www.lacrossetribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141218-LQ-Report-cites-dip-in-health-insurance-costs
-for-small-businesses-1218-20141218

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LQ


                        Copyright 2014 La Crosse Tribune


                              249 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Reporter (Milwaukee, WI)

                          September 15, 2004 Wednesday

Commentary: Health care vs. health insurance

BYLINE: Donald Croysdale

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 832 words


Perhaps concern about health insurance costs is finally reaching a critical
level. Public-sector employees, who for decades have been getting pretty much a
free ride, are starting to pay attention. To the surprise of some, the Milwaukee
teachers' union initiated the idea that perhaps they should pay something toward
their health insurance. What a novel thought. This past week, a consortium of
local municipal governments is considering banding together to obtain a better
deal on health insurance premiums. On Monday, executives for Racine County and
the town of Burlington expressed high concern that health insurance premiums
might be threatening jobs and future economic growth, noting they were paying 20
percent more than Chicago.

These concerns have been expressed by private-sector employers for many years.
Those who must meet payrolls know that health insurance costs have put the
squeeze on pay increases, hiring more employees, expanding the business and
profits. What seems to be new is that health insurance costs are squeezing the
public sector's ability to pass on wage increases and service expansions via tax
increases. A related report from Racine County was that county employees are
being encouraged to voluntarily take some unpaid time off. How long will it be
before voluntary time off becomes mandatory - as occurs in the private sector?

I've tried to be careful to distinguish between health care and health insurance
- a distinction frequently not made in the media or in political debates - but
should be. Health care is available to virtually any individual who needs it,
regardless of whether that individual has third-party insurance coverage.

Benefits declined

Individuals may, of course, pay out of pocket for their health care costs and
many do. Upwards of 18.8 million individuals in the 18 to 34 age range, as the
Wall Street Journal notes, voluntarily decline having insurance coverage, even
though for some this may be unwise. The journal goes on to point out that, in
many states, those having guaranteed issue, forgoing insurance coverage may even
make economic sense. In those states, you can buy insurance when you need it and
spend on other things until you do. This group comprises about 40 percent of the
total who the media report as not having health insurance. But they do have
access to health care.

Second, there is a major sector of those not having health insurance who do have
health care fully available to them - namely, those eligible for Medicaid and
state Children's Health Insurance Program. The way the CHIP program apparently
works is that when you need the health care, you can get it, regardless of
whether you had earlier signed up. Estimates are there are as many as 14 million
people who are not enrolled but who have full access to care.

Both the young people voluntarily forgoing insurance and those not enrolled in
government programs may receive care when they need it. Allowing for overlap
among these groups, more than half of the so-called 45 million people without
health insurance do, in fact, have available health care. One other group that
bears mentioning is those without insurance for only a portion of the year,
those usually between jobs and who did not opt for COBRA. The Congressional
Budget Office estimates that those who are without insurance for only a portion
of the year could be 30 percent to 50 percent of the 45 million uninsured
commonly referenced in the media debates. In contrast, the number of people who
do have health insurance is now at an all-time record - 245.3 million. The
problem is not so much that people do not have insurance - most do - but rather
that there is a greater and greater demand for care.

Cost control

Part of what is driving the escalating costs of health care is this demand for
health care together with the fact that for most Americans, health care is paid
via a third-party insurer - somebody else. As more and more health care is paid
for directly by the consumer via health savings accounts, the greater likelihood
that health care costs will be scrutinized more carefully, and cost will
moderate.

Shifting accountability for payment to the individual will take time. But
recognition by the public sector that health insurance premiums can and do
impact jobs and economic growth is a good sign. Assuming that demand will
continue at a high level, efforts must be made to expand and make more cost
-effective supply. Limiting malpractice claims via tort reform would be a good
start. With fewer attorneys looking over the doctors' shoulder, doctors could
devote more resources toward expanding care for their patients. With the public
sector beginning to recognize what the private sector has seen for a long time,
maybe there can be a refocus on more effective availability of health care.
Public and private sectors alike will benefit.

(Donald Croysdale is executive director for the American Subcontractors
Association of Greater Milwaukee.)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Opinion

                      Copyright 2004 Dolan Media Newswires
                                All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           February 28, 2004 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Consumers sick of rising health costs;
Story

BYLINE: Lisa Allen

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1787 words


Higher premiums are driving people away from private health insurance and
leading to calls for industry consolidation.

The federal government's rubber stamping of a third straight private health
insurance premium increase has once again enraged consumer groups, who say the
billion dollar industry is lazy and ripe for consolidation.

Some health funds are reportedly adding insult to injury by hatching covert
plans to eke more cash from federal government coffers on top of the existing 30
per cent rebate that costs taxpayers $2.3 billion a year.

The Private Health Insurance Administration Council announced on Friday that the
average private health insurance policy premium would rise 7.58 per cent in
2004.

Health funds had been lobbying the government for increases of between 1 per
cent and 2 per cent and up to 8 per cent this year, following premium jumps that
averaged 7.5 per cent and 7 per cent over the previous two years.

The health fund rises, which are expected to come into effect from April 1, are
not supported by consumer groups and industry lobbyists particularly private
hospital operators who complain that health funds such as Medibank, HCF, MBF and
NIB, are poorly managed.

But Health Minister Tony Abbott , in an interview with The Weekend Australian
Financial Review before Friday's announcement, explained how well the private
health insurance industry was managed and how it outperformed the general
insurance industry.

"I feel sorry for everyone having to pay more," says Abbott. "This is not a
phenomenon just for private health insurance, everything goes up."

Health funds, most of which are not-for-profit organisations, defend the premium
hikes. They say hospital benefits increased by 9 per cent last year and medical
benefits gap payments to doctors went up 14 per cent. Medical prostheses rose 31
per cent, according to the Australian Health Insurance Association, which
represents 29 of Australia's 42 health funds, covering 94 per cent of the
population.

Spiralling medical indemnity and research & development costs boosted the price
of some heart operations by 40 per cent last year. A bone marrow transplant went
up 27 per cent in 2003 and the cost of a Cochlear implant and surgery jumped
from $16,886 to $24,000, according to figures from the AHIA.

AHIA chief executive Russell Schneider says the cost of some cardiac operations
increased between 40 per cent and 121 per cent last year.

Health funds turned over more than $7 billion last year and made a surplus
before tax of $196 million and a tiny underwriting surplus of just $1.1 million.

"Now that [underwriting surplus] is a reflection of the fact that most funds are
not-for-profit organisations who strive to keep premiums as low as possible,
consistent with the need to pay for private sector health care," Schneider says.

"Any industry that does that can hardly be accused of being inefficient nor can
it be accused of pricing its product too high. The fact is, increases in
premiums simply reflect health care inflation.

"The only way you can reduce premiums would be to pay for fewer services or
restrict people's treatment options or squeeze down on the incomes of doctors
and nurses and other health care workers."

Opposition Health spokeswoman Julia Gillard is not so convinced that health fund
premiums should be allowed to continue rising.

"Tony Abbott should be doing his job and putting pressure on private health
insurers to keep premiums down," says Gillard. "Instead, he is just getting
ready to rubber stamp premium increases and ignoring the fact that families who
have budgeted and paid for private health cover deserve to receive value for
money."

The Private Health Insurance Administration Council's latest figures show 43.4
per cent of Australians had health fund insurance for the quarter ended December
30, 2003. The level of coverage has been dropping since a peak in the September
30, 2000 quarter when 45.7 per cent of Australians were covered.

PHIAC's data reveals that the number covered reached a low point in the December
1998 quarter when just 30.2 per cent of people had health coverage.

Falling levels of private health insurance prompted the federal government to
introduce Lifetime Health Cover in 1999, which allowed health funds to charge
different premiums based on a person's age when health cover was first taken
out.

Melbourne Business School deputy chief executive Ian Harper , in a Medibank
Private funded report into private health insurance released last week, found
the level of health fund customers would drift from the present level of 43 per
cent to 37 per cent over the next 40 years if the government's rebate and
Lifetime Health Insurance scheme remains in place.

The report, Easing the Pressure: The Inter-Generational Report and Private
Health Insurance, also demonstrates that if the 30 per cent rebate and Lifetime
Health Insurance scheme were removed, just 18 per cent of Australians would be
covered by health insurance by 2041.

The report found that for every $1 the government spends in rebates for an
insured person, it spends $2 in meeting the health needs of an uninsured person
that could be covered by private health insurance premiums.

"Yet insured and uninsured persons contribute on the same basis to funding
government health outlays through the Medicare levy and general taxation," the
report says.

Governments already face a huge jump in health outlays from 6.4 per cent of GDP
in 2001-02 to 12.2 per cent in 2041-42.

If private health insurance were to disappear, the jump would be even higher to
12.7 per cent of GDP, representing an additional rise of 0.5 percentage points
of GDP, according to the report.

Harper, in an interview with The Weekend AFR, said it would be possible to
modify the 30 per cent rebate in ways to make it more attractive to young
people.

"For example, the rebate could be increased for people under the age of 30 and
reduced for older people," he says.

"What older people lost by having a lower rebate they would gain from having a
slower rate of increase in their health insurance premiums when more young
people joined."

Despite Liberal senators supporting a rebate jump from 30 per cent to 40 per
cent, says Schneider, Harper doesn't believe the government was thinking about
changing the rebate.

"The policy they have in place, as our report shows, is quite sufficient to keep
private health insurance coverage close to current levels over 40 years."

Harper would also not comment on whether the industry was ripe for
consolidation. "We say let the market forces work and the market will decide how
many funds there ought to be," he says.

But Australia has seen its fair share of health fund collapses. The Goldfields
Medical Fund in Western Australia collapsed in 2001 followed by the failure of
the IOR Australia fund in Victoria the following year.

Australian Consumers' Association health policy officer, Martyn Goddard , says
health funds are "a very inefficient way of funding private hospitals".

"Not only do they want higher premiums from customers, they are now flagging
that they will try to persuade the government to increase the existing rebate
from 30 per cent to a higher percentage," he says.

"Their management/administration costs are about 11.4 per cent: that is lower
than general insurers but about three times Medicare's costs.

"Only about 35 per cent of the money paid into private health insurance by
policy holders and the government actually reaches hospitals."

Goddard says health fund leakages and inefficiencies occur because young people
drop out and older people who use more health services join up.

"This further erodes the fund's financial base," he says

Goddard says there will be an average 8 per cent increase in health funds costs
this year.

"There is no question that the industry is ripe for consolidation," he says.
"There will be a major fall out in the industry over the next few years.

"Costs in the private system are galloping out of control and causing real
financial problems for private hospitals, the health funds, the patient and the
taxpayer."

Paul Clarkson , a health insurance analyst and associate director of Standard &
Poors, says the industry could improve.

"There is probably some scope for improvement via technology efficiencies," he
says. "There could be room for improvements in management expenses via
consolidation and scale."

But Mark Fitzgibbon, the CEO of health fund NIB, says medical inflation is
driving contribution increases.

But Abbott denies the private health insurance industry is failing to perform.
"There is no evidence the private health insurance industry is badly run," he
says.

"Administration costs in the private health insurance industry for 2002-2003
were 10.5 per cent, compared to 13 per cent in 1999-2000, so the private health
insurance industry is improving its administration costs.

"The management costs of general insurers was 27 per cent in the 2001-02 year;
not only is the private health insurance industry improving its record, it is
much more efficient in this respect than the general insurance industry."

Defending the expected premium rise, Abbott says "the cost of everything goes
up".

"The cost of newspapers goes up from time to time, every year my general
insurance bill goes up. It is not unusual prices rise given that medical costs
increase faster than other costs, everyone wants the latest drugs and prostheses
and no one is content with yesterday's [medical] technology."

Abbott would not be drawn on whether the health insurance industry should
consolidate.

"I don't think government is well placed to make proscriptive judgements about
how many are right for the market.

"I suspect over time competitive forces will cause some funds to merge, but
competitive forces also bring new entrants."

But the Australian Private Hospitals Association remains unconvinced and this
week it will call for private health insurance sector reform.

The APHA is critical of the rising premium costs. It claims insurers continue to
adopt the "unconscionable practice of selective tendering" by entering into
fewer contracts with private hospitals and day surgeries and, thereby, limiting
the health care options for their members, in order to save themselves a dollar.

"Topping it all off, health insurers are propped up by taxpayers to the tune of
$2.3 billion a year via the 30 per cent rebate," an APHA spokesman says.

The APHA warns that any further gap payments will "seriously draw into question
the value of health insurance, undermine the philosophy underpinning the 30 per
cent rebate, and hand Labor a big stick with which to bash the minister and
government in

a key election portfolio".

Regardless of the debate, health fund customers should expect premium increases.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: The cost of some heart operations is up 40 per cent. Photo
Gabriele Charotte

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2004 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Timaru Herald (New Zealand)

                              March 9, 2015 Monday

Job could include health cover

BYLINE: ROB STOCK

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 529 words


Starting a new job could in the future also see you being automatically enrolled
in a personal health insurance plan.

The KiwiSaver-style approach to boosting the number of people with private
health insurance could take pressure off the state health system, according to a
report to be published on Monday.

The report by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research (NZIER) canvasses
the policy options that politicians have at their disposal to encourage people
to buy their own private health insurance.

One option would be to mimic an aspect of KiwiSaver and auto- enrol people in a
health insurance plan when they start a new job.

The NZIER report was paid for by the Health Funds Association, the lobby group
for health insurers like Southern Cross, NIB, and Sovereign.

With an ageing population, government spending on healthcare is rising, and
there will be growing pressure to further ration services and encourage people
to pay more of their own healthcare costs, says NZIER.

Health insurance pays for the costs of things like surgery and hospital stays
for people who pay premiums every month, meaning the state does not have to pay
for their care.

But the number of people with health insurance has been falling as a result of
large rises in premiums driven by higher medical costs.

NZIER canvassed a range of options, but found the "most promising" to be "a
KiwiSaver-style" scheme.

"This option would involve legislation requiring that all employers provide
access to health insurance for employees and their families," NZIER says.

Auto-enrolment, or "soft compulsion" would aim to overcome people's "status quo
bias", while allowing them to opt-out, if they want to.

Auto-enrolment could be made even more effective by offering a "targeted
enrolment subsidy" and requiring employers to pay part of the premiums, NZIER
said.

The subsidy would not be available for people who already had health insurance.

NZIER looked at the viability of a general subsidy for people already paying for
private health insurance, but it would not deliver a big enough reduction in the
government's healthcare spending to justify the expense.

Similarly, NZIER found that removing fringe benefit tax on employees whose
employer pays some or all of their health insurance premiums was not likely to
provide savings for the taxpayer.

If there was no appetite for a KiwiSaver-like option, lawmakers could instead
require employers to offer health insurance to new employees and just let the
employee decide whether to take it out.

Health insurers have been struggling with the fall-off in the numbers of people
with insurance and have in the past lobbied for fringe benefit tax breaks on
premiums, and for tax breaks for the elderly on their insurance.

Roger Styles, chief executive of the Health Funds Association, said the report
found that health insurance could play a big part in funding future healthcare
costs, and that there were big productivity gains to be had from helping people
return to work faster. Fairfax NZ

--------------------

CAPTION:

The number of people with health insurance has been falling as a result of large
rises in premiums driven by higher medical costs.

Picture: 123rf.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                             March 22, 2010 Monday

Local sentiment leans in favor of newly approved reform

BYLINE: By Erin Smith, esmith@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 847 words


Moises Polanco watched his mother battle through cancer treatment and a
mastectomy. As soon as she recovered from breast cancer, her health-insurance
provider canceled her plan, according to Polanco.

"I think it's because they don't want to pay for it if the cancer comes back,"
said Polanco, a Lowell resident.

Polanco said he supports health-care reform legislation, which includes a
provision that prohibits insurers from denying coverage based on existing
medical conditions. "I believe it's something we all need to be a better
country, a better America. Everyone needs health care," Polanco said.

Congress last night approved the historic legislation, extending health care to
tens of millions of uninsured Americans and cracking down on insurance-company
abuses.

Diana Ruiz told The Sun yesterday that she is looking forward to health-care
reform. The Lowell mom already has health insurance for her and her two children
and pays about $500 per month for her family insurance plan. She said she has
seen her premiums increase.

"We could benefit, too, because right now, it's a monopoly," Ruiz said.
"Insurance companies can raise the rates as much as they want."

Ruiz said the legislation could also benefit her mother, who has health
insurance through MassHealth.

"It would help my mom, I think," she said. "She would have more choices in life
as opposed to only living in Massachusetts because it offers the best
health-care option."

Joan Slaney, 63, of Dracut said she used to see her doctor every three months,
but when her co-pays increased to $25 per visit, she cut back and only saw her
doctor twice last year. She worries about rising medical costs, especially as
she and her husband, Stephen, get older.

"Who knows what 10 years down the road will bring?" she said about
health-insurance costs. "I think it's too expensive. It always has been. I'd
like the costs to come down, but I don't know how they're going to do it when
everything keeps going up."

Susan Melanson said it bothers her that the CEOs of health-insurance companies
are receiving increased pay while health-care costs continue to climb.

"It just doesn't seem right," said Melanson, a Chelmsford resident, who believes
everyone should have access to health insurance.

Melanson said she and her husband, Mark, have seen their insurance premiums
double in recent years. Five years ago, Mark's company completely paid for the
health insurance for the couple and their two young sons. The family only paid
for doctor co-pays. Now, the family pays for 25 percent of their insurance plan,
and the costs keep increasing.

Mark said he favors curbing costs over universal coverage.

"I'd like to see them put in a measure to control costs, and I don't think the
debate they're holding is addressing that," he said.

Sheila Capone-Wulsin of Lowell said she believes if the U.S. government can curb
the bureaucracy and cut waste from the health-insurance industry, medical costs
will ultimately decrease and so will the budget deficit.

"We're lucky because I have employer health insurance," said Capone-Wulsin as
she watched her 6-year-old daughter, Sophia Wulsin, learn to ride a bicycle
without training wheels yesterday at Lowell's Shedd Park.

Capone-Wulsin, who has four children, said she believes health-care costs are
"out of control."

"We definitely need national health-care reform," she said. "We have too many
people without health insurance in this country, and then they end up going to
the emergency room for care."

That drives up the costs for everyone, said Capone-Wulsin, who would like to see
universal coverage.

"I'm of the opinion that you have to assume some of the responsibility for other
people, but I know there's some people that would disagree with me," she said.

Sonia Rosario of Lowell said she would also like to see everyone have the option
for more affordable health care. Rosario said she only pays about $3 per month
for her prescription drugs through Medicaid.

"When I was working, I paid more," said Rosario, citing prescriptions that would
run as high as $80 per month. "For me, it's fine, but not for other people."

Meanwhile, Polanco said he has been trying to find a better job that pays more
than $9 per hour so he can buy his own health insurance, but he said it's
difficult in the current economy. Polanco's wife and 2-year-old daughter have
full health coverage through MassHealth, but his MassHealth insurance only
covers emergency care.

"Let's say I want to go to the doctor to check my stomach because I have a
problem. I have to pay for that and it's hard when you work part time," said
Polanco, who pays $75 per doctor visit.

When Polanco's mother, the breast-cancer survivor, sees her doctor every three
months, it costs $150 per visit. Her medications cost $50 per month. Those
medical bills start to add up, especially for someone without insurance, but
Polanco said not paying isn't an option, and he hopes the health-care reform
will offer some relief.

"She survived," he said. "We don't care how much money we're going to owe for
the rest of our lives. All that matters is she's alive."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Capone-Wulsin Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our MyCapture
site.
Polanco Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our MyCapture site.
Rosario Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our MyCapture site.
Diana Ruiz: "... now, it's a monopoly." Sun staff photos can be ordered by
visiting our MyCapture site.
M. Melanson Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our MyCapture site.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                                 March 17, 1997

Gradison: Time To Reexamine Health Insurance Regulation

BYLINE: BY STEVEN BROSTOFF

SECTION: Pg. 45

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It may be time to completely reexamine regulation of the health insurance
industry, the president of the Health Insurance Association of America said.

Current health insurance regulation appears to have evolved on an ad hoc basis
without reference to how a specific regulatory initiative will affect consumers
and the industry over time, Bill Gradison said in an interview with National
Underwriter.

"Policy decisions tend to deal with the here and now," he said.

Moreover, he said, the system was largely developed before managed care became
such an important element in health insurance.

At some point, Mr. Gradison said, it would be useful to explore such issues as
which benefits should be mandated, what type of consumer protections should be
established and what type of capital and solvency standards should be applied to
organizations that accept different degrees of risk.

Also very important, Mr. Gradison said, is the question of whether the
regulatory responsibility should be shared between the federal and state
governments, and if so, how.

He said that at this point, he is more aware of the problem than the solution.
Indeed, he said, he does not know of anyone who has really thought through the
issue of health insurance regulation.

Mr. Gradison added that he sometimes thinks he would like to spend a year or so
at a think tank trying to answer some of these questions.

He emphasized that he does not detect any great enthusiasm from HIAA's
membership for federal regulation.

Indeed, Mr. Gradison said, since to some extent health markets tend to be local,
it might well be that allowing states to take different approaches is desirable.

But he noted that states vary enormously on such policies as guaranteed issue
and mandated benefits. Moreover, Mr. Gradison said, federal regulation is
creeping into health insurance in bits and pieces, a trend that is likely to
continue.

This means, he said, that insurance companies have to comply with 50 different
requirements plus a federal standard. The result, Mr. Gradison said, is to
increase the cost of compliance and thus the cost of insurance.

Mr. Gradison noted that most decisions made by legislators involve both costs
and benefits. Some of these decisions, he said, increase the cost of health
insurance in order to achieve a socially desirable purpose.

On mandated benefits, for example, he noted that the cost of each individual
mandate is not necessarily high. However, Mr. Gradison said, ultimately the
costs add up.

He emphasized that he is not suggesting that every mandate is wrong. Rather, he
said, it would be useful to examine mandates and determine which ones are right.

Mr. Gradison said that in expressing his concerns over regulation, he is just
"thinking out loud" at this point.

However, he said, it would be a good idea to consider what kind of regulatory
framework should be enacted for the health insurance industry for the year 2000
and beyond.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1997 The National Underwriter Company


                              254 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright (c) 2013 by State Bar of Texas
                               Texas Bar Journal

                                  March, 2013

                               Texas Bar Journal

                               76 Tex. B. J. 185

LENGTH: 2439 words

FEATURE: THERE'S SOMETHING HAPPENING HERE: HOW THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WILL
IMPACT SOLE AND SMALL FIRM PRACTICES IN TEXAS

By Philip S. Dial, FSA

PHILIP S. DIAL, FSA is a principal and consulting actuary with Rudd and Wisdon
Inc. in Austin. He serves as consulting actuary to employers and organizations
providing health and welfare benefits and to bar-related insurance companies.
His clients include the State Bar of Texas Insurance Trust and the Texas Lawyers
Insurance Exchange.

TEXT:

    [*185]

AS STEPHEN STILLS WROTE IN THE ICONIC 1967 BUFFALO SPRINGFIELD HIT, "FOR WHAT
ITS WORTH," THERE'S SOMETHING HAPPENING HERE. WHAT IT IS AIN'T EXACTLY CLEAR.

   Unless you have been living off the grid since 2010, you no doubt know that
the most far-reaching, controversial, contentious, and, depending on your view,
best or worst piece of legislation since the 1960s, the Affordable Care Act, was
adopted by the U.S. Congress on March 23, 2010, to reform health care in
America. Since that time, the ACA has spawned thousands of pages of enabling
regulations, enough articles in the print media to level a large forest, an
endless string of radio and television commentary, a central element of the
presidential campaign, and the U.S. Supreme Court decision that will earn Chief
Justice John Roberts an indelible place in American history.

   I really don't think Stills was thinking about health care reform in the 21st
century when he wrote his famous song, but he certainly captured the mental
state of many Americans over the past three years when he wrote, Paranoia
strikes deep, Into your life it will creep.

   While much about the ACA "ain't exactly clear" at this point, it's safe to
say that in spite of many changes that lie ahead, there is much that won't
change. Once the ACA is fully implemented in 2014, there is likely to be great
relief among many for whom paranoia has struck deep and much disappointment
among others with great expectations for reform.

   In this article, I will attempt to provide a brief overview of what we know
and don't know at this time concerning the impact of the ACA on sole and small
firm practices in Texas in 2014. Space does not permit a thorough review of all
issues or even a complete analysis of the issues discussed herein. There are
volumes of information available about the ACA and its implications. I find the
summary of the law available at the Kaiser Family Foundation website to be
particularly helpful. I encourage the reader to study the law carefully and
consult your insurance professional to assist you in making decisions that
affect you and your firm directly.

   First, let's briefly review what the ACA is and is not about.


     . The ACA is first and foremost about access to health insurance. By
     prohibiting evidence of insurability requirements and pre-existing
     condition limitations, the ACA makes health insurance accessible to
     all Americans regardless of health status. Beginning Jan. 1, 2014, no
     American can be denied coverage due to poor health. In addition, by
     expanding Medicaid eligibility (subject to state adoption) and
     providing various forms of premium and cost sharing subsidies, the ACA
     will help extend health insurance to individuals for whom it is
     presently unaffordable. Finally, the Act provides for the creation of
     a health insurance exchange in every state to facilitate  [*186]  the
     purchase of coverage through an online market for qualified health
     insurance products.

     . The ACA is not really about reducing the cost of health insurance.
     The cost of health insurance is primarily driven by the utilization
     and cost of health care. Americans use more health care services every
     year: hospital care, physician services, diagnostic lab, high-tech
     imaging, prescription drug therapy, etc. The cost of most services
     grows every year, and the mix of services becomes increasingly
     expensive with the development of new, sophisticated treatments. The
     ACA includes a lot of regulation, but it will not regulate the cost of
     health care. The ACA will benefit consumers by moderating the
     administrative cost of health insurance through heightened scrutiny of
     rate increases and the Medical Loss Ratio standard, which requires
     that 80 percent of the premiums for individual and small group
     insurance plans be spent on health care, but it will do little to
     reduce the portion of the premium attributable to health care; i.e.,
     the 80 percent piece. While there are initiatives encouraged by the
     ACA that are intended to bend the cost curve, at best, these programs
     will slow, but not stop, the increase in health care cost. As a
     result, the cost of health insurance will continue to increase as
     well.


While there are initiatives encouraged by the ACA that are intended to bend the
cost curve, at best, these programs will slow, but not stop, the increase in
health care cost. As a result, the cost of health insurance will continue to
increase as well.

THERE'S SOMETHING HAPPENING HERE

   While various provisions of the ACA have been implemented over the past three
years, the most sweeping changes are scheduled for 2014. Those with the most
significance to sole and small firm practices include the following.


     . The Individual Mandate--The primary focus of the Supreme Court's
     landmark decision in June 2012 is the ACA requirement that most U.S.
     citizens and  [*187]  legal residents maintain qualifying health
     insurance or pay a penalty, commonly referred to as the individual
     mandate. The annual penalty, which will phase in over three years,
     will be based on a flat dollar amount ($ 95/adult; $ 47.50/child in
     2014, increasing in two steps to $ 695/adult; $ 347.50/child in 2016)
     with a family cap of the greater of (a) three times the adult rate or
     (b) a percentage of household income (1 percent in 2014 increasing in
     two steps to 2.5 percent in 2016). The flat dollar amounts will be
     indexed for years after 2016.

     . Health Insurance Exchanges--The ACA provides for the creation of
     state-based HIXs to be administered by a governmental agency or
     non-profit organization. The state-based HIX will serve as a market
     clearinghouse for qualifying health insurance coverage for individuals
     and small businesses with 100 or fewer employees. The ACA authorizes
     each state to create its own HIX; however, the ACA authorizes the U.S.
     Department of Health and Human Services to establish a Federally
     Facilitated Exchange in a state that does not choose to establish its
     own HIX. At this writing, Texas has not taken steps to establish a
     HIX, so it appears that an FFE will operate in the state, at least in
     2014. Open enrollment for coverage through the exchanges for 2014 will
     begin Oct. 1, 2013.

     . Health Insurance Premium and Cost Sharing Subsidies--Sliding-scale
     premium subsidies will be available to individuals and families with
     household income from 100 percent to 400 percent of the Federal
     Poverty Line to purchase individual insurance through the HIX.
     Sliding-scale cost-sharing subsidies (assistance in paying
     deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments) will be available to those
     with household incomes up to 250 percent of FPL. The 2012 FPL was $
     11,170 for an individual and $ 23,050 for a family of four. The FPL is
     revised annually.

     . Guaranteed Availability of Health Insurance--The ACA requires
     guaranteed issue and renewability of health insurance purchased
     through the HIX and the individual and small group markets. In
     addition, rates may vary only by age, geographic area, family
     composition, and tobacco use. Rates for the oldest age category cannot
     exceed those for the youngest age category by a ratio greater than
     3:1. Rates for tobacco users cannot exceed rates for non-users by more
     than 50 percent.

     . Employer Requirements--Employers with 50 or more employees that do
     not offer health insurance and have at least one full-time employee
     who receives a premium subsidy for insurance purchased through a HIX
     will be subject to an annual penalty of $ 2,000 for each FTE in excess
     of 30. Employers with 50 or more employees who offer health insurance
     but have at least one FTE who receives a premium subsidy, will be
     subject to an annual penalty equal to the lesser of (a) $ 3,000 for
     each employee receiving a subsidy or (b) $ 2,000 for each FTE in
     excess of 30. These amounts are prorated based on the number of months
     that an employee does not have coverage and will be indexed for years
     after 2014. Employers with fewer than 50 employees will not be subject
     to penalties for failure to provide health insurance or for employees
     who receive subsidies through the HIX.

     . Essential Health Benefits--The ACA requires that health insurance
     offered to individuals and small businesses cover a comprehensive list
     of health care services while limiting out-of-pocket cost to the
     Health Savings Account limits under existing federal law ($ 6,250 for
     an individual and $ 12,500 for a family in 2013). The limits are
     indexed annually. A health insurance plan must fall into one of four
     "metallic" categories based on the proportion of the full actuarial
     value of the Essential Health Benefits it covers (bronze equals 60
     percent, silver equals 70 percent, gold equals 80 percent, or platinum
     equals 90 percent). These requirements apply to plans in and out of
     the HIX.


MANY UNKNOWNS OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

   While the ACA is clear about what happens in 2014, there is little clarity
about how it will happen. Among the unknowns at this point are the following.



     . Health Insurance Exchange in Texas--It seems likely at this time
     that the Texas HIX will be a Federally Facilitated Exchange as
     discussed above. Only the broadest guidelines for operation of the FFE
     have been issued at this time. As a result, little is known about how
     the FFE would operate or the impact that it would have on the health
     insurance market in Texas. Of course, it's always possible that the
     Texas legislative leadership could change course and create a HIX,
     although that seems highly unlikely for 2014.

     . Pending Litigation--There are various cases making their way through
     the courts. Some of these challenge the constitutionality of the ACA's
     provisions related to contraception, provider reimbursement, and the
     Independent Payment Advisory Board. But the most important may be the
     lawsuit filed by the Oklahoma attorney general arguing that federal
     subsidies to support the purchase of qualified health insurance
     through HIXs are only available when the  [*188]  HIX is created by
     the state, not the federal, government. Since many states, including
     Texas, do not plan to create an HIX, this challenge, if successful,
     could have far-reaching effects.

     . Federal Budget--The ongoing federal budget debate could impact the
     speed and extent to which the ACA is implemented since HHS action
     could be impacted by budgetary limitations.

     . Legislation--Congress will likely consider a number of bills that
     would amend the ACA. While it seems unlikely that significant changes
     will be passed by both houses and signed by the president, it is
     possible that some changes could occur in time to impact 2014.

     . Health Insurance Industry Response--Texas health insurers continue
     to consider their options in light of the changes and uncertainty in
     the market as Jan. 1, 2014, approaches. There is no requirement that
     an insurer participate in the HIX, although many of the requirements
     of the ACA apply outside as well as inside the exchange. None of the
     companies has announced their plans at this point. Of course, that
     would be hard to do in light of the ongoing uncertainty.

     . Cost of Coverage--While there has been much speculation about the
     cost of health insurance once the ACA is fully implemented, there is
     no specific information available at this time. Generally speaking,
     the adverse selection that can be expected to accompany guaranteed
     issue will lead to cost increases, particularly for individual
     insurance, since people with health problems are more likely than
     healthy people to purchase health insurance. In addition, the more
     extensive coverage required under the ACA as well as new fees to be
     assessed against insurance companies are also expected to increase
     cost. Nevertheless, it is unlikely that anything specific will be
     known about cost until late 2013.


STATE BAR OF TEXAS ACTIVITIES

   The State Bar of Texas has undertaken a major effort to educate the
membership on the impact of the ACA on health insurance for sole and small firm
practices. To this end, the State Bar conducted a free CLE webcast on the
subject on Jan. 30, 2013; it will be recast on March 6, 2013. The webinar
included a panel discussion among Texas health insurance professionals.

   There have been preliminary discussions of the possibility of creating a
health insurance plan sponsored by the State Bar and administered through the
State Bar of Texas Insurance Trust (State Bar of Texas health plan). For such a
plan to be viable and cost-effective, it would be necessary to enroll at least
10,000 primary insured (attorneys and/or employees, not including dependents),
including younger and relatively healthy individuals, in order to maintain the
stable risk pool required to avoid volatile claims experience that can drive
large premium increases. In order to attract insurance companies to underwrite
such a plan, it will be necessary for plan participants to commit to participate
for at least two years recognizing that premiums are likely to increase in the
second and future years in order to keep pace with the rising cost of health
care.

The State Bar of Texas has undertaken a major effort to educate the membership
on the impact of the ACA on health insurance for sole and small firm practices.
To this end, the State Bar conducted a free CLE webcast on the subject on Jan.
30, 2013; it will be recast on March 6, 2013. The webinar included a panel
discussion among Texas health insurance professionals.

   To facilitate further discussion of a potential State Bar of Texas health
plan, the State Bar is conducting a survey designed to gather information about
the prevalence of health insurance among Texas attorneys in small firms. For
more information, visit texasbar.com/insurance.

EVERYBODY LOOK WHAT'S GOING DOWN

   The coming year will see major changes in the Texas health insurance market
as federal and state officials continue to deal with implementation issues,
courts adjudicate pending litigation, and the industry charts its course for the
future. Developments will be fast and frequent during 2013, so those who are
interested in health insurance must pay close attention.

   The last line in the refrain from "For What It's Worth" should prove to be
good advice for all Americans interested in health care and health insurance.
Much has happened in the past three years, but there will be much more to come
as we head toward 2014, so be sure to pay attention to "what's going down."

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsFederal GovernmentElectionsHealthcare LawInsurancePreexisting
ConditionsHealthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral Overview

GRAPHIC:
PHOTO, PHILIP S. DIAL, FSA


                              255 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Sun (Lowell, Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 22, 2010 Monday

Local sentiment leans in favor of newly approved reform

BYLINE: Erin Smith, The Sun, Lowell, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 915 words


Mar. 22--Moises Polanco watched his mother battle through cancer treatment and a
mastectomy. As soon as she recovered from breast cancer, her health-insurance
provider canceled her plan, according to Polanco.

"I think it's because they don't want to pay for it if the cancer comes back,"
said Polanco, a Lowell resident.

Polanco said he supports health-care reform legislation, which includes a
provision that prohibits insurers from denying coverage based on existing
medical conditions. "I believe it's something we all need to be a better
country, a better America. Everyone needs health care," Polanco said.

Congress last night approved the historic legislation, extending health care to
tens of millions of uninsured Americans and

cracking down on insurance-company abuses.

Diana Ruiz told The Sun yesterday that she is looking forward to health-care
reform. The Lowell mom already has health insurance for her and her two children
and pays about $500 per month for her family insurance plan. She said she has
seen her premiums increase.

"We could benefit, too, because right now, it's a monopoly," Ruiz said.
"Insurance companies can raise the rates as much as they want."

Ruiz said the legislation could also benefit her mother, who has health
insurance through MassHealth.

"It would help my mom, I think," she said. "She would have more choices in life
as opposed to only living in Massachusetts because it offers the best
health-care option."

Joan

Slaney, 63, of Dracut said she used to see her doctor every three months, but
when her co-pays increased to $25 per visit, she cut back and only saw her
doctor twice last year. She worries about rising medical costs, especially as
she and her husband, Stephen, get older.

"Who knows what 10 years down the road will bring?" she said about
health-insurance costs. "I think it's too expensive. It always has been. I'd
like the costs to come down, but I don't know how they're going to do it when

everything keeps going up."

Susan Melanson said it bothers her that the CEOs of health-insurance companies
are receiving increased pay while health-care costs continue to climb.

"It just doesn't seem right," said Melanson, a Chelmsford resident, who believes
everyone should have access to health insurance.

Melanson said she and her husband, Mark, have seen their insurance premiums
double in recent years. Five years ago, Mark's company completely paid for the
health insurance for the couple and their two young sons. The family only paid
for doctor co-pays. Now, the family pays for 25 percent of their insurance plan,
and the costs keep increasing.

Mark said he favors curbing costs over universal coverage.

"I'd

like to see them put in a measure to control costs, and I don't think the debate
they're holding is addressing that," he said.

Sheila Capone-Wulsin of Lowell said she believes if the U.S. government can curb
the bureaucracy and cut waste from the health-insurance industry, medical costs
will ultimately decrease and so will the budget deficit.

"We're lucky because I have employer health insurance," said Capone-Wulsin as
she watched her 6-year-old daughter, Sophia Wulsin, learn to ride a bicycle
without training wheels yesterday at Lowell's Shedd Park.

Capone-Wulsin, who has four children, said she believes health-care costs are
"out of control."

"We definitely need national health-care reform," she said. "We have too

many people without health insurance in this country, and then they end up going
to the emergency room for care."

That drives up the costs for everyone, said Capone-Wulsin, who would like to see
universal coverage.

"I'm of the opinion that you have to assume some of the responsibility for other
people, but I know there's some people that would disagree with me," she said.

Sonia Rosario of Lowell said she would also like to see everyone have the option
for more affordable health care. Rosario said she only pays about $3 per month
for her prescription drugs through Medicaid.

"When I was working, I paid more," said Rosario, citing prescriptions that would
run as high as $80 per month. "For me, it's fine, but not for other people."

Meanwhile, Polanco said he has been trying to find a better job that pays more
than $9 per hour so he can buy his own health insurance, but he said it's
difficult in the current economy. Polanco's wife and 2-year-old daughter have
full health coverage through MassHealth, but his MassHealth insurance only
covers emergency care.

"Let's say I want to go to the doctor to check my stomach because I have a
problem. I have to pay for that and it's hard when you work part time," said
Polanco, who pays $75 per doctor visit.

When Polanco's mother, the breast-cancer survivor, sees her doctor every three
months, it costs $150 per visit. Her medications cost $50 per month. Those
medical bills start to add up, especially for someone without insurance, but
Polanco said not paying isn't an option, and he hopes the health-care reform
will offer some relief.

"She survived," he said. "We don't care how much money we're going to owe for
the rest of our lives. All that matters is she's alive."

To see more of The Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.lowellsun.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Sun, Lowell, Mass. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100322-LZ-Local-sentiment-leans-in-favor-of-newly-approved-reform-0322

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LZ


                             Copyright 2010 The Sun


                              256 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      August 30, 2014 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Experient Health Discusses Repaying Exchange Subsidy Overpayments in Recent
Online Blog Post

LENGTH: 653  words


Aug. 30 -- US-based Experient Health issued the following news release:

In order to help eligible individuals and families purchase health insurance
through the Exchange, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) created health insurance
subsidies in the form of premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions.

But what exactly are subsidies?

Experient Health, the health insurance arm of the Virginia Farm Bureau,
explained it this month in its blog series on health care reform, health
insurance and health care issues. The blog was launched last year to keep the
community informed of issues and trends that impact their lives.

The ACA created health insurance subsidies, designed to make coverage through an
Exchange more affordable by reducing the taxpayer's out-of-pocket premium costs.

Subsidies became available beginning in 2014, at the same time the Exhanges
became operational. The Exchange open enrollment period for the 2014 plan year
ended on March 31, 2014. The 2015 annual open enrollment period will be on Nov.
15, 2014.

If an enrollee is eligible for a premium tax credit, advance payments of the
credit will be made directly to the insurance company on the family's behalf.

At the end of the year, the advance payments must be reconciled against the
amount of the family's actual premium tax credit, as calculated on the family's
federal income tax return.

"There are two federal health insurance subsidies available with respect to
coverage through an Exchange: premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions,"
Experient Health wrote.

"Both of these subsidies vary in amount based on the taxpayer's household income
and reduce the out-of-pocket costs of health insurance for the insured."

Premium tax credits are available for people with somewhat higher incomes (up to
400 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL)), and they reduce out-of-pocket
premium costs for the taxpayer.

Reduced cost-sharing is available for people with lower incomes (up to 250
percent of the FPL).

"Through cost-sharing reductions, these individuals will be eligible to enroll
in plans with higher actuarial values and have the plan, on average, pay a
greater share of covered benefits," Experient Health wrote.

"This means that coverage for these individuals will have lower out-of-pocket
costs at the point of service (for example, lower deductibles and co payments)."

Subsidies are calculated on the taxpayer's return using the taxpayer's household
income and family size for the taxable year. For purposes of determining
eligibility for these subsidies, and the amount of any subsidy available,
household income is determined using the taxpayer's federal income tax return
for that year.

"However, because these subsidies are provided when the individual purchases
insurance, the Exchanges will generally have to determine household income well
before the individual files his or her tax return for that year," according to
Experient Health.

So what about Premium Tax Credit Payments?

A refundable tax credit is one that is available to an individual even if he or
she has no tax liability. An advanceable tax credit allows an individual to
receive assistance at the time that he or she purchases insurance, rather than
having to pay the premium out of pocket and wait to be reimbursed when filing
his or her annual income tax return.

Advance payments of the premium tax credit will be made directly to the
insurance company on the family's behalf.

"At the end of each year, a taxpayer's subsidy amount will be recalculated using
the taxpayer's household income as reported on his or her tax return, and any
difference in the amounts must be reconciled," Experient Health wrote.

"If the taxpayer's income has increased from the amount that he or she reported
to the Exchange, and as a result the taxpayer received a larger subsidy than he
or she was entitled to, that individual may have to repay part of his or her
subsidy."

Source: Experient Health

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Dickinson Press (North Dakota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

'Something needs to be done' as farmers face soaring health care costs

BYLINE: The Dickinson Press, N.D.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1729 words


April 03--WISHEK, N.D. -- Like other agricultural business owners, Troy Scherr
understands the value of offering health insurance to employees. And like most
other business owners, he's struggling with escalating costs that make doing so
increasingly difficult.

"We want to attract and retain key employees. Having health insurance is a big
part of attracting good people. And it's a big part of retaining good ones,"
said Scherr, co-owner of Sayler Implement, an independent John Deere dealership
with locations in Linton and Wishek, N.D. "But it just keeps getting more and
more expensive."

Scherr said the premiums he pays for employees' health insurance have doubled in
the past five years. Increases of that size are common, people involved in ag
say. They also say that as costs soar, health insurance has replaced markets and
weather as many agriculturalists' biggest concern.

Now, with the Trump administration and Congress struggling through contentious
changes to federal health care policies, there's uncertainty about what will --
and should -- come next. But Scherr speaks for many in ag when he said, "I don't
know what the solution is, but something needs to be done."

Some in ag think that farm organizations, such as grower groups, can provide
part of the answer.

Theresia Gillie, a Hallock, Minn., farmer and president of her state Soybean
Growers Association, said the organization is researching a large group health
insurance plan that would be "viable for our members."

Initially, she hoped her association would have a plan developed by this summer.
But the process is complicated, and the goal now is to have something to
announce by early 2018, she said.

Ag concerns

Health insurance is a huge concern for Americans in general. But it may be
particularly worrisome in agriculture:

--10.7 percent of U.S. farm households had no form of health insurance, compared
with 9.1 percent of the general population, according to a 2015 U.S. Department
of Agriculture study.

--Farm households are slightly more likely than their general population to
secure their own insurance, rather than obtain it through an employer, according
to the USDA study.

--Historically, many important decisions -- such as whether to enter farming or
stay in an off-farm job -- have been affected by health-insurance availability.
As health care concerns grow, that influence intensifies.

--Some health insurance providers are pulling out of rural areas, reducing the
number of options for agriculturalists and ag businesses that live or operate in
them.

--Rising health insurance costs, coupled with low crop and livestock prices and
poor farm profitability, leave farmers and ranchers less money to spend at their
local businesses.

"The more they have to spend on health care, the less they can spend here at the
dealership," Scherr said of his customers.

Rising insurance and medical costs also stress small rural health-care
facilities and other small-town businesses, Gillie said.

Encouraging so-called "telehealth" is especially important in rural areas with
limited health care, said Jordan Feyerherm, a project organizer for the Lyons,
Neb.,-based Center for Rural Affairs. His organization describes itself as
"unapologetically rural. We stand up for the small family farmer and rancher,
new business owner, and rural communities."

Trouble is, insurers see telehealth as a "lower-cost service" and want to pay
less for it, he said.

Looming physician shortages in rural areas strengthens the need for telehealth
and puts even more stress on rural health care and insurance, Feyerherm said.

He also said that while the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, has
received heavy criticism, it has allowed some farm families to obtain health
insurance.

"I know small farmers in rural Nebraska who (before the ACA) didn't have health
insurance or only had catastrophic and never went to the doctor," Feyerherm
said.

'Changing marketplace'

Concerns about health insurance affordability are nothing new, said Shawnee
Christenson, owner/agent of Crosstown Insurance in New Hope, Minn., and
president-elect of the Minnesota Health Underwriters Association.

Pat Bellmore, chief marketing officer for Blue Cross Blue Shield of North
Dakota, recalls such concerns when he was a young field representative 32 years
ago.

"We're constantly working with federal and state lawmakers to find alternative
solutions for a more competitive marketplace, while also keeping in mind the
need for affordability. It's an age-old issue," he said.

Denise Kolpack, the organization's senior vice president of brand strategy and
communications, said the Blues are "committed to work with provider partners to
reduce health care inflation."

Nonetheless, the Affordable Care Act created what's "definitely a changing
marketplace," Bellmore said.

Consumers need to "take a look at all the plans that are available and what ones
might fit their needs," he said. "Do your due diligence."

Farmers can be eligible for an advanced premium tax credit that lowers the cost
of health insurance, Christenson said.

But the credits, if any, are based in part on estimated income for the coming
year. Annual farm income can vary greatly and unpredictably, so a
taxpayer/farmer might need to repay the credit if he or she has a good year
financially, Christenson said.

Bigger deductibles

Health insurance premiums have soared for years. In recent years, however, the
percentage increase of premium costs have slowed, with the size of deductibles
rising relatively faster, said Michelle Long, a policy analyst with the the
Kaiser Family Foundation in Washington, D.C. The nonprofit organization focuses
on major health care issues facing the nation and conducts annual surveys of
health care costs.

By all accounts, consumers, both in and out of ag, are selecting options with
higher deductibles to limit the increase in premiums.

"Just about everybody has these high deductibles now, and they're paying a lot
for premiums, too," Gillie said.

A 2016 survey by the Kaiser Foundation found the size of deductibles in
employer-provided plans have increased an average 67 percent since 2010.

There aren't a lot of hard statistics on how much farm families and ag
businesses and their employees pay for health insurance. But Long said the 2016
Kaiser survey came up with these numbers for employers in the ag, mining and
construction sector that provide health insurance for their workers:

--An average annual cost of $6,400 for single-coverage premiums, with employees
paying an average of about $1,100.

--An average annual cost of about $18,000 for family-coverage premiums, with
employees paying an average of slightly more than $5,000.

Young aggies

Health insurance is a concern for just about everyone involved in ag, but young
farmers appear to be at particular risk. Farmers and others say young aggies,
like young adults in general, sometimes go without it, especially when faced
with other pressing financial needs.

Bobby Jones, 30, realizes that health insurance is a big deal. Even so, he and
his wife, Chelsea Losh-Jones, 29, don't have it.

"It's been an issue since our son (Tripp, now 2 1/2 ) was born," Bobby Jones
said.

The couple launched Babe+Sage Farm, a small vegetable operation -- which Jones
said provides "enough (income) to make a living off of" -- in Gordon, Ga., in
2011. The name comes from a line in a poem by William Henry Channing, and
doesn't refer to either Jones or his wife.

Jones said his young family has a "long, complicated health insurance story."
When he and his future wife started the farm, he didn't have coverage but
Chelsea, unmarried at the time, was still young enough to be covered for a year
under her parents' plan.

Later, the two were without health insurance for a time, then obtained it
through the ACA.

"We got a subsidy and had coverage we liked," Bobby Jones said.

Then Tripp was born and the family went from a two- to three-person household.
Under scratch-your-head, hard-to-explain provisions in Georgia law, Jones and
his wife no longer qualified for a subsidy, and so they lost their coverage.
Tripp is covered, however.

"It's specific to our state," Jones said. "We're not eligible for Medicaid, but
we're also not eligible for a subsidy."

Jones said he and his wife, in the time they've been without insurance, have
been "pretty lucky. We've been relatively healthy." Even so, he's had two
on-farm accidents that required trips to the emergency room.

"Without insurance, it gets expensive real fast," he said.

Jones and his wife have obtained what he calls "an accident policy, a
supplemental insurance policy. It's not a health insurance policy. It's pretty
cheap and pretty limited."

He's uncertain when he and his wife will secure health insurance, but said, "Any
business has to be optimistic."

Jones is working with the National Young Farmers Coalition to publicize the
problems that young farmers face with health insurance

Young producers nationwide are struggling with health insurance, said Andrew
Bahrenburg, national policy director of the Hudson, N.Y.,-based organization.

'Need to come down'

Scherr, in his 17th year with the implement dealership, said young people don't
always fully appreciate the importance of health insurance.

"If you're young and single, it's probably not seen as a big thing. But as you
get older, as you get a family, kids, it's a big part of your benefit package,"
he said, adding that his staff, which ranges in age from 22 to their early 50s,
is "younger overall."

Though premiums continue to rise, his dealership still pays 100 percent of the
cost of individual coverage for its 22 employees. Employees may not always
realize the additional cost to the company, Scherr said.

"It's not seen as a raise because you don't see it in your paycheck," he said.

He evaluates the value and cost of health care insurance every year.

"We do have great employees," he said. "I want to pay 100 percent of a single
plan" and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future.

Even so, employers can't continue to absorb higher health insurance costs
indefinitely, he said.

"I hope the new administration comes up with more affordable health care for
everyone. Everybody needs it," Scherr said. "These costs need to come down."

___ (c)2017 the Dickinson Press (Dickinson, N.D.) Visit the Dickinson Press
(Dickinson, N.D.) at www.thedickinsonpress.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170403-QX-Something-needs-to-be-done-as-farmers-face-soaring-health-care-costs
-0403-20170403

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QX


                       Copyright 2017 The Dickinson Press


                              258 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Jamestown Sun (North Dakota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

'Something needs to be done' as farmers face soaring health care costs

BYLINE: The Jamestown Sun, N.D.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1728 words


April 03--WISHEK, N.D. -- Like other agricultural business owners, Troy Scherr
understands the value of offering health insurance to employees. And like most
other business owners, he's struggling with escalating costs that make doing so
increasingly difficult.

"We want to attract and retain key employees. Having health insurance is a big
part of attracting good people. And it's a big part of retaining good ones,"
said Scherr, co-owner of Sayler Implement, an independent John Deere dealership
with locations in Linton and Wishek, N.D. "But it just keeps getting more and
more expensive."

Scherr said the premiums he pays for employees' health insurance have doubled in
the past five years. Increases of that size are common, people involved in ag
say. They also say that as costs soar, health insurance has replaced markets and
weather as many agriculturalists' biggest concern.

Now, with the Trump administration and Congress struggling through contentious
changes to federal health care policies, there's uncertainty about what will --
and should -- come next. But Scherr speaks for many in ag when he said, "I don't
know what the solution is, but something needs to be done."

Some in ag think that farm organizations, such as grower groups, can provide
part of the answer.

Theresia Gillie, a Hallock, Minn., farmer and president of her state Soybean
Growers Association, said the organization is researching a large group health
insurance plan that would be "viable for our members."

Initially, she hoped her association would have a plan developed by this summer.
But the process is complicated, and the goal now is to have something to
announce by early 2018, she said.

Ag concerns

Health insurance is a huge concern for Americans in general. But it may be
particularly worrisome in agriculture:

--10.7 percent of U.S. farm households had no form of health insurance, compared
with 9.1 percent of the general population, according to a 2015 U.S. Department
of Agriculture study.

--Farm households are slightly more likely than their general population to
secure their own insurance, rather than obtain it through an employer, according
to the USDA study.

--Historically, many important decisions -- such as whether to enter farming or
stay in an off-farm job -- have been affected by health-insurance availability.
As health care concerns grow, that influence intensifies.

--Some health insurance providers are pulling out of rural areas, reducing the
number of options for agriculturalists and ag businesses that live or operate in
them.

--Rising health insurance costs, coupled with low crop and livestock prices and
poor farm profitability, leave farmers and ranchers less money to spend at their
local businesses.

"The more they have to spend on health care, the less they can spend here at the
dealership," Scherr said of his customers.

Rising insurance and medical costs also stress small rural health-care
facilities and other small-town businesses, Gillie said.

Encouraging so-called "telehealth" is especially important in rural areas with
limited health care, said Jordan Feyerherm, a project organizer for the Lyons,
Neb.,-based Center for Rural Affairs. His organization describes itself as
"unapologetically rural. We stand up for the small family farmer and rancher,
new business owner, and rural communities."

Trouble is, insurers see telehealth as a "lower-cost service" and want to pay
less for it, he said.

Looming physician shortages in rural areas strengthens the need for telehealth
and puts even more stress on rural health care and insurance, Feyerherm said.

He also said that while the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, has
received heavy criticism, it has allowed some farm families to obtain health
insurance.

"I know small farmers in rural Nebraska who (before the ACA) didn't have health
insurance or only had catastrophic and never went to the doctor," Feyerherm
said.

'Changing marketplace'

Concerns about health insurance affordability are nothing new, said Shawnee
Christenson, owner/agent of Crosstown Insurance in New Hope, Minn., and
president-elect of the Minnesota Health Underwriters Association.

Pat Bellmore, chief marketing officer for Blue Cross Blue Shield of North
Dakota, recalls such concerns when he was a young field representative 32 years
ago.

"We're constantly working with federal and state lawmakers to find alternative
solutions for a more competitive marketplace, while also keeping in mind the
need for affordability. It's an age-old issue," he said.

Denise Kolpack, the organization's senior vice president of brand strategy and
communications, said the Blues are "committed to work with provider partners to
reduce health care inflation."

Nonetheless, the Affordable Care Act created what's "definitely a changing
marketplace," Bellmore said.

Consumers need to "take a look at all the plans that are available and what ones
might fit their needs," he said. "Do your due diligence."

Farmers can be eligible for an advanced premium tax credit that lowers the cost
of health insurance, Christenson said.

But the credits, if any, are based in part on estimated income for the coming
year. Annual farm income can vary greatly and unpredictably, so a
taxpayer/farmer might need to repay the credit if he or she has a good year
financially, Christenson said.

Bigger deductibles

Health insurance premiums have soared for years. In recent years, however, the
percentage increase of premium costs have slowed, with the size of deductibles
rising relatively faster, said Michelle Long, a policy analyst with the the
Kaiser Family Foundation in Washington, D.C. The nonprofit organization focuses
on major health care issues facing the nation and conducts annual surveys of
health care costs.

By all accounts, consumers, both in and out of ag, are selecting options with
higher deductibles to limit the increase in premiums.

"Just about everybody has these high deductibles now, and they're paying a lot
for premiums, too," Gillie said.

A 2016 survey by the Kaiser Foundation found the size of deductibles in
employer-provided plans have increased an average 67 percent since 2010.

There aren't a lot of hard statistics on how much farm families and ag
businesses and their employees pay for health insurance. But Long said the 2016
Kaiser survey came up with these numbers for employers in the ag, mining and
construction sector that provide health insurance for their workers:

--An average annual cost of $6,400 for single-coverage premiums, with employees
paying an average of about $1,100.

--An average annual cost of about $18,000 for family-coverage premiums, with
employees paying an average of slightly more than $5,000.

Young aggies

Health insurance is a concern for just about everyone involved in ag, but young
farmers appear to be at particular risk. Farmers and others say young aggies,
like young adults in general, sometimes go without it, especially when faced
with other pressing financial needs.

Bobby Jones, 30, realizes that health insurance is a big deal. Even so, he and
his wife, Chelsea Losh-Jones, 29, don't have it.

"It's been an issue since our son (Tripp, now 2 1/2 ) was born," Bobby Jones
said.

The couple launched Babe+Sage Farm, a small vegetable operation -- which Jones
said provides "enough (income) to make a living off of" -- in Gordon, Ga., in
2011. The name comes from a line in a poem by William Henry Channing, and
doesn't refer to either Jones or his wife.

Jones said his young family has a "long, complicated health insurance story."
When he and his future wife started the farm, he didn't have coverage but
Chelsea, unmarried at the time, was still young enough to be covered for a year
under her parents' plan.

Later, the two were without health insurance for a time, then obtained it
through the ACA.

"We got a subsidy and had coverage we liked," Bobby Jones said.

Then Tripp was born and the family went from a two- to three-person household.
Under scratch-your-head, hard-to-explain provisions in Georgia law, Jones and
his wife no longer qualified for a subsidy, and so they lost their coverage.
Tripp is covered, however.

"It's specific to our state," Jones said. "We're not eligible for Medicaid, but
we're also not eligible for a subsidy."

Jones said he and his wife, in the time they've been without insurance, have
been "pretty lucky. We've been relatively healthy." Even so, he's had two
on-farm accidents that required trips to the emergency room.

"Without insurance, it gets expensive real fast," he said.

Jones and his wife have obtained what he calls "an accident policy, a
supplemental insurance policy. It's not a health insurance policy. It's pretty
cheap and pretty limited."

He's uncertain when he and his wife will secure health insurance, but said, "Any
business has to be optimistic."

Jones is working with the National Young Farmers Coalition to publicize the
problems that young farmers face with health insurance

Young producers nationwide are struggling with health insurance, said Andrew
Bahrenburg, national policy director of the Hudson, N.Y.,-based organization.

'Need to come down'

Scherr, in his 17th year with the implement dealership, said young people don't
always fully appreciate the importance of health insurance.

"If you're young and single, it's probably not seen as a big thing. But as you
get older, as you get a family, kids, it's a big part of your benefit package,"
he said, adding that his staff, which ranges in age from 22 to their early 50s,
is "younger overall."

Though premiums continue to rise, his dealership still pays 100 percent of the
cost of individual coverage for its 22 employees. Employees may not always
realize the additional cost to the company, Scherr said.

"It's not seen as a raise because you don't see it in your paycheck," he said.

He evaluates the value and cost of health care insurance every year.

"We do have great employees," he said. "I want to pay 100 percent of a single
plan" and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future.

Even so, employers can't continue to absorb higher health insurance costs
indefinitely, he said.

"I hope the new administration comes up with more affordable health care for
everyone. Everybody needs it," Scherr said. "These costs need to come down."

___ (c)2017 The Jamestown Sun (Jamestown, N.D.) Visit The Jamestown Sun
(Jamestown, N.D.) at www.jamestownsun.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170403-QJ-Something-needs-to-be-done-as-farmers-face-soaring-health-care-costs
-0403-20170403

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QJ


                        Copyright 2017 The Jamestown Sun


                              259 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday

Calhoun County employees to pay more for their health insurance

BYLINE: Laura Johnson, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 515 words


Sept. 20--Calhoun County employees' insurance premiums will increase 4.5 percent
next month because the dollar value of insurance claims rose by nearly a third
last year, reflecting the additional cost of the care employees sought, county
officials say.

The increase will add up to $10 per month for employees on the county's family
plan and $4.68 for employees on individual plans. It's the first rate increase
since 2008, when rates increased by 1.5 percent, said Brian Conary, an employee
who chairs the Calhoun County Insurance Committee.

Calhoun County has been able to hold down the cost of premiums for several years
but is increasing them now to make up for the increasing cost of claims, Conary
said.

"We've tried to prevent that as long as we can, but it's just got to the point
where there is no other choice," Conary said.

Between June 2011 and May 2012 Calhoun County employees' claims totaled $1.6
million. During the same time period the year before, they totaled $1.2 million.

The difference was enough for the county's Insurance Committee to raise premiums
for the next fiscal year, Conary said.

According to Conary and Calhoun County Adminstrator Ken Joiner, the insurance
claims rose sharply, in part, due to claims filed for four county employees.
Those claims, the men said, totaled about $300,000.

Some employees have already received verbal notification of the price increase
and all county employees will receive written notification of the increase with
their next paycheck, county officials said.

Calhoun County subscribes to a self-insurance plan, supplying health insurance
with funds it receives from employees. That is different from fully insured
plans in which employers outsource health insurance coverage to a health
insurance company.

Employers who offer self-insurance plans are typically able to provide lower
premiums to employees and have more control over how the plan is administered
than do major insurance companies, said Michael O'Malley, executive director of
the Alabama Association of Health Plans.

Even with the increase, the county employees' insurance plans are lower than the
national average. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, the average cost of
a family health insurance plan in America is $15,745.

The cost for a family health insurance plan for a Calhoun County employee is
$7,111.44.

"They're getting a heck of a deal," O'Malley said. "Everybody's rates are going
up."

According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, health insurance premium costs have
nearly doubled in the past decade. In 2002 the average cost of an insurance plan
for a single worker would have been $3,083. Now it's $5,615.

The average cost of insurance for a family plan was $8,003 ten years ago. Now
it's $15,745.

County employees pay 40 percent of the annual cost, while the county pays 60
percent of the annual cost of its health insurance plans.

Star staff writer Laura Johnson: 256-235-3544. On Twitter@LJohnson_Star.

___ (c)2012 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120920-AO-Calhoun-County-employees-to-pay-more-for-their-
health-insurance-0920-20120920

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2012 The Anniston Star


                              260 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 25, 2011 Monday

Costs grow for Eau Claire school district's health, dental insurance

BYLINE: McLean Bennett, The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 953 words


April 25--Health and dental insurance costs in the Eau Claire school district
will increase a combined $1.8 million next school year, a figure that prompted
mixed reactions among school board members who approved those contracts.

"Based on this year's budget, the increase would amount to about $115,000 for
dental and $1,673,000 for health," said Dan Van De Water, the district's
business director.

Those figures are based on an 8.25 percent spike in health insurance premiums
and an 8.53 percent bump in dental premiums under insurance contracts the Eau
Claire school board approved April 18, prompting concern by several board
members. However, none of them voted against the increases. Six approved the
agreements, and Brent Wogahn abstained.

The board renewed its health insurance contract for a third straight year with
Altoona-based Group Health Cooperative of Eau Claire. The board also renewed its
dental insurance contract with Delta Dental of Wisconsin.

District officials recommended approving both contracts, noting the 8.25 percent
increase in health insurance costs was a stark contrast to the 2009-10 school
year, when costs rose by more than 30 percent.

But not everyone was pleased with next year's numbers.

"I'm just wondering why we're celebrating an 8.25 percent increase on health
insurance when my sources tell me the city received a zero (percent) increase,"
board member Kathryn Duax said last week. Her husband, Dave Duax, is an Eau
Claire councilman.

Dale Peters, the city of Eau Claire's human resources director, confirmed that
the city's health insurance costs didn't increase during the current contract
year, from July 2010 to June 2011. Like the school district, the city receives
its health insurance through Group Health.

Peters said he anticipates health insurance costs will jump less than 5 percent
in the next contract year, which begins July 1.

School board President Carol Craig said she was surprised by the price jump,
noting workers in the district are using their health insurance less often since
the district started a wellness program.

Others thought the price increase wasn't too bad.

"The increase is very minimal," board member Bob G. Janke said. "The school
district is getting a pretty good deal, I think."

District employees will pay more of the district's health insurance costs as
part of recently approved contracts in line with Gov. Scott Walker's proposal
that Wisconsin public sector employees pay more for that benefit. The contract
calls for workers to pay 12.6 percent of health insurance premiums, up from the
10 percent most previously paid. The agreement also stipulates they pay 5.6
percent of their salary toward their retirement, with taxpayers picking up the
remaining half of that cost.

Fred Weissenburger, the district's human resources director, said the jump in
health insurance prices next year is lower than the average increase across the
health insurance industry. He said the rise in dental coverage is more than
usual because the district is changing the dental plans it offers employees.
Dental costs are expected to decrease in the future, he said.

A provision in the district's current contract with Group Health Cooperative
states that if the insurance provider kept its rate increase for the 2011-12
school year below 9 percent -- and continued offering the same coverage as
before -- the district wouldn't seek bids from other health insurance providers,
Weissenburger said.

The 2011-12 contract board members approved April 18 has a similar provision, he
said. As long as Group Health Cooperative's premiums don't rise by more than 8.5
percent for the 2012-13 contract year and the organization doesn't change its
coverage, the district again won't seek bids from other providers.

Weissenburger said the district could strike that provision from future
contracts.

Craig said she wasn't aware before April 18 of the agreement and that she'd like
the district to seek bids more often.

"The board would like to have these bid out every year," she said.

If the district doesn't go to bid every year, Craig added, it at least should
know in advance that it won't be seeking bids -- and why it isn't doing so.

Janke said he has mixed feelings about seeking bids every year. He said if the
district can get a good deal on health insurance from its current provider, he
doesn't see the point in going to bid every year.

Peters said the city has a similar "not-to-exceed" rate increase agreement with
Group Health Cooperative. He said as long as rates don't go up more than 8
percent in the upcoming contract year, the city won't seek bids for other
contracts.

Peters said cities and school boards that have such agreements with their
insurance providers gain stability in their coverage plans.

"I don't think it's unusual at all," Weissenburger said of the practice of
setting such not-to-exceed limits.

Weissenburger said seeking bids annually can lead to frequent changes in
insurance providers, something he'd rather avoid. It also can lead to premium
rates changing dramatically every year.

Bennett can be reached at 715-830-5832, 800-236-7077 or mclean.bennett@ecpc.com

Insurance Costs

This year the Eau Claire school district is spending $20.3 million for health
insurance and $1.3 million for dental insurance. Next school year those figures
will rise to $22 million and nearly $1.5 million, respectively.

To see more of The Leader-Telegram or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.leadertelegram.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Leader-Telegram, Eau
Claire, Wis. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110425-EW-Costs
-grow-for-Eau-Claire-school-district-s-health-dental-insurance-0425-20110425

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                       Copyright 2011 The Leader-Telegram


                              261 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday

Eau Claire lauds zero growth in health insurance costs: That's in city's health
insurance costs: No increase next year

BYLINE: Andrew Dowd, The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 616 words


May 13--A 57 percent increase in health insurance costs loomed over Eau Claire
city government in 2007, but changing its provider, modifying employee plans and
implementing a wellness program prevented such a budget-busting jump.

And for the next year, the city won't see an increase in its cost to provide
health insurance to its workers, retirees and their families, according to its
insurance provider.

"We're coming to report that we have a zero percent increase to the health
insurance program," said Darin McFadden, chief operating officer of Group Health
Cooperative.

Representatives of the Eau Claire-based health care cooperative told the City
Council this week that for July 1 through June 30, 2011, the city's premiums
won't increase because efforts taken by the city and its employees are working.

"Frankly, it's really good news, and it's fun to talk about health insurance
when it's a good news story," assistant city manager Dale Peters told the City
Council.

The city pays about $9 million of the roughly $11 million in premiums, with
employees picking up the rest, Peters said.

The city was facing that 57 percent increase with previous provider Medica in
2007 -- an unanticipated $1.5 million budget hit. To curb costs, city officials
changed the plan by increasing co-payments, boosting nongeneric drug costs and
mandating employees take part in a health risk assessment program to continue
receiving health coverage.

Since making the switch and creating an employee wellness program used by nearly
all those covered by Eau Claire's health plan, Peters said, the city has saved
about $6 million in premiums.

"The success of this program is a real tribute to our employees," Peters said.
"They have embraced and engaged in the wellness process, and to have 99 percent
of all employees and their spouses participating ... is very remarkable."

Participation in the program is helping employees feel better and reducing the
need for health care services, he said, adding that employees also have become
better health care consumers.

City Council members lauded the efforts to cut health insurance costs.

"We could have had this city in a fiscal crisis without this," council Vice
President Dave Duax said. "We could have laid off a good portion of the city's
workforce."

Councilman David Klinkhammer noted that statistics from Group Health's report
showed that the city's workforce also had fewer health risk factors because of
the program.

"Those are savings that are significant," he said.

The city's wellness program includes a biometrics evaluation, an online health
risk assessment and one-on-one discussions with a health risk coach. Employees
also can choose to enroll in yoga classes or a intensive "boot camp" program.
Peters noted that eight of the city's boot camp members participated in the
half-marathon May 2 in Eau Claire.

The City Council voted 10-0, with Mark Olson abstaining because he's a retired
city worker with health insurance, to extend its contract with Group Health for
another year. That extension will cover July 1, 2011, through June 30, 2012,
with no more than an 8 percent increase in costs.

For 2009-10 insurance coverage, the city saw a 6.5 percent increase.

Dowd can be reached at 715-833-9204, 800-236-7077 or andrew.dowd@ecpc.com

To see more of The Leader-Telegram or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.leadertelegram.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Leader-Telegram, Eau
Claire, Wis. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100513-EW-Eau-Claire-lauds-zero-growth-in-health-insurance-costs-0513

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                       Copyright 2010 The Leader-Telegram


                              262 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 17, 2014 Monday

New Mexico: Hospital seeks to educate, enroll uninsured

LENGTH: 1442  words

DATELINE: Santa Fe


City of Deming has issued the following news release:

DEMING >> As part of the Affordable Care Act, most U.S. citizens were required
to have health insurance beginning in 2014. In 2015, there is a penalty if
you're not excluded for a particular reason. Wondering why health insurance is
so important, the Headlight sat down with Steve Westenhofer, CEO of Mimbres
Memorial Hospital to find out.

DH: What is health insurance?

Westenhofer: Health insurance is a contract between you and an insurance
company. When you buy a plan or policy, you pay a monthly fee and in return, the
company agrees to pay part of your medical expenses when you get sick or hurt.

DH: Why is it important that citizens have health insurance?

Westenhofer: While no one plans to get sick or hurt, most people need medical
care at some point. Did you know the average cost of a three-day hospital stay
is $30,000? Or that fixing a broken leg can cost up to $7,500? Having health
insurance helps protect you from unexpected costs like these. Your insurance
policy will outline what types of care, treatments and services are covered,
including how much the insurance company will pay for different treatments in
different situations.

DH: Is having health insurance mandatory?

Westenhofer: Yes, with few exceptions, most U.S. citizens are required to have
health insurance under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was
signed into law in 2010. Those who do not have minimum essential health coverage
- like through an employer - and don't qualify for an exemption, will have to
pay a penalty fee if they don't get health insurance.
Advertisement

DH: What is that penalty?

Westenhofer: If you can afford health insurance coverage in 2015, but don't sign
up, you will have to pay a penalty ($325 per adult, $162.40 per child -- up to
$975 per family or 2 percent of income whichever is higher). And without
insurance, you'll be financially responsible for all of your medical costs.

DH: Who is exempt from having to get health insurance?

Westenhofer: The list is long, but here are a few reasons why a person might be
exempt:

o Coverage is unaffordable coverage (more than 8 percent of household income)

o You are a member of federally recognized tribe

o You are below tax filing threshold and not required to file taxes

o You have been uninsured for less than three consecutive months during the year

DH: When can a person purchase health insurance?

Westenhofer: For the Health Insurance Marketplace, enrollment periods are only
for a specified time during the year. The next enrollment period is from
November 15, 2014 through February 15, 2015. You can only purchase insurance
outside of that time period if you have a qualifying life event, such as a
marriage, divorce, new baby, and change of income, to name a few.

You are considered covered if you have Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, any job-based
plan, any plan you've purchased yourself, COBRA, retiree coverage, Tricare, VA
health coverage.

DH: How much does health insurance cost?

Westenhofer: Each plan varies in terms of overall cost and depends on the amount
of premium and deductible you choose. The premium is the amount of money charged
for a certain amount of insurance coverage each year. You may also have an
annual deductible. This is the amount you must pay out of your pocket before the
insurance company will pay any expenses. For example, let's say you have a plan
with a $200 deductible. You go to the doctor and the total cost is $250. You pay
the first $200 to cover the deductible, and then your insurance pays its share.
How much you pay for your premium and deductible depends on the type of
insurance you have and whether you're purchasing individual or family coverage.

DH: What types of plans are there?

Westenhofer: There are four levels of qualified health plans on the Health
Insurance Marketplace: platinum, gold, silver, and bronze. Each category has a
different monthly premium costs, as well as deductible. There are a lot of
affordable options on the Health Insurance Marketplace and you can compare each
plan side by side so you can find the plan that meets you and/or your family's
needs.

DH: Is there any help available if you can't afford health insurance?

Westenhofer: The federal government can assist some individuals and families
with their premiums costs by providing subsidies to those who qualify based on
their income. For example, if a family of four had an income of about $40,000 in
2014, they may be eligible for subsidy assistance on premium costs that exceed 5
percent of their income. If that same family of four purchases a Silver plan
that might cost them around $9,400 per year, they could eligible to receive
subsidy assistance of up to almost $7,400; which means they would only be
responsible for about $2,000 of the insurance premium costs themselves.

DH: What if you have a preexisting condition like a previous cancer, a diabetes
diagnosis or are pregnant?

Westenhofer: You cannot be excluded from coverage for any preexisting condition.
And, equally important, parents can cover their children up to age 26 on their
insurance plan.

DH: What do I need to do if I enrolled last year and have coverage?

Westenhofer: The federal government has announced that for those consumers who
are already enrolled in a Marketplace plan in 2014, they will have an automatic
enrollment option to select the same health plan coverage in 2015. Of course,
these individuals and families have the option to shop for other coverage
choices, as well. The Marketplace enrollment tools spell out the steps consumers
will need to take for either the option to auto-enroll in the same health
insurance coverage, or to shop for other choices.

DH: What else does a health insurance cover?

Westenhofer: In addition to pre-existing conditions, all qualified health plans
must offer:

o Ambulatory patient services

o Hospitalization and emergency services

o Maternity and newborn care

o Mental Health and substance use disorder

o Prescription drugs

o Lab services

o Preventive and wellness services

o Chronic disease management

o Pediatric services, including dental and vision care

Of course, you have to meet your deductible before insurance pays.

DH: I've also heard that qualified health plans cover preventive care services
at no charge.

Westenhofer: Yes, qualified plans cover many preventive care screenings, tests
and services such as vaccinations that can help adults and children stay
healthy. And the best news is, they're free -- no copays or deductibles.
Depending on your age, gender and other risk factors, your doctor may tell you
it's time for a mammogram, colonoscopy or other screening that can detect cancer
or disease in its earliest, most treatable stages. Or, it may be time to screen
for high blood pressure or high cholesterol to give your doctor information that
can help prevent a stroke or heart attack.

For women, many preventive care screenings, tests and supplies that can help
with family planning and pregnancy are now covered, along with services such as
these:

o Well-woman checkups

o Contraceptives and birth control counseling

o Screenings during pregnancy for a variety of conditions

o Breastfeeding supplies, support and counseling

DH: Besides a health insurance plan on the Health Insurance Marketplace, what
other types of health insurance are available?

Westenhofer: Many families with limited income will qualify for Medicaid or
Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and they can enroll any time of the
year. Medicaid provides health coverage for some low-income people, families and
children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people with disabilities. In some
states the program covers all low-income adults below a certain income level.
CHIP provides low-cost health coverage to children in families that earn too
much money to qualify for Medicaid. In some states, CHIP covers parents and
pregnant women. Each state offers CHIP coverage, and works closely with its
state Medicaid program.

DH: How can local, uninsured residents find help with enrollment?

Westenhofer: As a service to our community Mimbres Memorial Hospital can help
uninsured residents review coverage options on the Health Insurance Marketplace,
or determine eligibility for Medicaid. We can also assist with re-enrollment or
with special enrollment if someone has had a life change, such as a marriage,
divorce, job loss, etc.

All they need to do is schedule an appointment with one of our application
coordinators by calling 546-5890. We also have Spanish-speaking representatives
available to assist.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                  April 19, 2000 Wednesday, RT. 9 EAST EDITION

Shrewsbury faces health-costs hike

BYLINE: Elaine Thompson; TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 642 words

DATELINE: SHREWSBURY



- The town and its some of its employees are facing significantly higher costs
for health insurance coverage in the next fiscal year.

The town expects to spend about $385,000 more in fiscal 2001, and some employees
will pay almost $60 more per month for their share.

The costs are rising. This is certainly going to become a serious budget issue
for municipalities,'' Town Manager Daniel J. Morgado said.

Mr. Morgado said the current health insurance scene is fast becoming a replay of
the early 1990s, when employee health insurance was considered a budget-buster
for many municipalities.

Then we ran into a period where we were offered programs with more benefits,
more coverage and the premiums remained static or came down,'' Mr. Morgado said.
Now the situation has changed. The insurance market is more volatile.''

As in the early 1990s, the town recently reactivated its Insurance Advisory
Committee, consisting of eight employees representing different unions. Any
changes the town decides to make regarding health insurance has to be approved
by the bargaining units.

Most of the increased cost for next fiscal year is because of the financial
problems of Harvard Pilgrim Health Care. The town's 946 current and retired
employees are enrolled in either Harvard Pilgrim or Fallon Community Health
Plan. Rates for Fallon, which covers 519 town employees, increased by 8 percent.
Harvard Pilgrim went up 18 percent. About 418 employees are enrolled in Harvard
Pilgrim.

This has to do with the whole Harvard Pilgrim situation, where in order to get
themselves back on some secure footing, they had to increase premiums to bring
in revenue,'' Mr. Morgado said.  But, I'm told we have one of the more modest
increases in the region.''

The town of Auburn, for example, saw Harvard Pilgrim rates climb 39 percent for
the next fiscal year. Rates for Fallon jumped 20 percent; CIGNA is up 26
percent. Even with fewer than half the number of employees as Shrewsbury, Auburn
has budgeted $2.1 million for health insurance next year, compared with
Shrewsbury's $2.28 million. Because Auburn pays a larger portion of the cost,
employee rates are lower than in Shrewsbury. Auburn pays 76 percent of the cost
of health insurance for employees enrolled in Harvard Pilgrim and CIGNA. Auburn
picks up 90 percent of the cost for employees covered through Fallon.

Shrewsbury pays 50 percent of the Harvard Pilgrim rate for an employee. The town
contributes the same dollar amount to the cost of an employee's Fallon coverage.
The town's share for each employee on the Fallon or Harvard Pilgrim individual
plans is $1,752 per year, and $4,700 a year for employees with family coverage.
Because of this, Fallon customers will actually pay less for health insurance
next year.

If Harvard Pilgrim goes up substantially, people on Fallon actually get a
reduction in their premium,'' Mr. Morgado said.

Mr. Morgado said the town and its employees are actively pursuing ways to
control the spiraling costs of health insurance.

In addition to the Insurance Advisory Committee's rebirth, the Worcester Area
Regionalism Education Project, to which the town belongs, has started
discussions about forming a joint purchasing agreement to create a larger health
insurance group. A recent study by the consortium determined that larger groups
can get better rates, Mr. Morgado said.

He said the consortium recently put out a bid for a consultant to work with the
group.

WAREP said it plans to change its name to Municipalities Organized for Regional
Effectiveness, or MORE. The municipalities included in the consortium are
Shrewsbury, Auburn, Berlin, Boylston, Charlton, Douglas, Dudley, Grafton,
Holden, Leicester, Millbury, Northboro, Northbridge, Oxford, Rutland, Sterling,
Sutton, Uxbridge, Westboro and Worcester.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART; T&G Staff; Health inusrance / Shrewsbury town employees' share
of monthly rates

               Copyright 2000 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              264 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

City looks to privatize operations;
Issue comes up with rising health, pension costs

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


With the city facing escalating employee health insurance and pension costs in
coming years, the City Council has broached the idea of whether certain
municipal operations can be privatized.

The council Tuesday night asked City Auditor James A. DelSignore for a report on
whether any cities or towns in the state have enjoyed success and saved money by
privatizing any of their municipal functions.

District 3 Councilor Paul P. Clancy Jr. said the city needs to find ways to
scale back the number of employees it hires in future years because health
insurance and pension costs alone now account for about one-fifth of all
municipal spending.

"When we hire new employees, we become married to the cost of their retirement
and the cost of their health insurance," Mr. Clancy said. "Those are the kind of
costs that are putting a lot of pressure on the city budget. Because we
continually have to spend more money in those areas, it leaves us with less
money to fund municipal services and programs."

Health insurance costs are expected to increase by 10 percent to more than $90
million in total next fiscal year. Fiscal 2009 will begin next July 1. Increases
of 9 percent and 8 percent have also been forecast for the subsequent two years.

While pension costs are not escalating at a similar rate, they continue to take
a large bite out of the municipal budget. The Public Employee Retirement
Administration Commission recently notified the city that its required tax-levy
appropriation for its retirement system for fiscal 2009 is $24.9 million.

That annual retirement appropriation is expected to increase to nearly $28
million by fiscal 2013.

"A lot of people work part time for the city or the School Department, and the
city pays their benefits for health insurance and retirement," Mr. Clancy said.
"Those costs will certainly escalate substantially over time. We need to take a
look at whether any of those positions, and even some full-time ones, can be
privatized. It certainly deserves to be looked at, because things simply can't
continue the way they are going."

If any privatization was to be done, the councilor said it could done over time
through attrition.

Mr. DelSignore told the council that with privatization, the cost of employee
health insurance and pensions is often built into contracts, though those costs
would likely not be as substantial as when they are borne by the city.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                        SUNDAY TELEGRAM (Massachusetts)

                     December 26, 2004 Sunday, ALL EDITIONS

Premium shock;
 Health insurance squeeze only getting worse

SECTION: INSIGHT; IN OUR OPINION; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 288 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


The skyrocketing cost of health care has moved close to the top of the agenda at
all levels of government, with good reason. Health entitlements are by far the
biggest items in both state and federal budgets.

But the impact is most dramatic on the municipal level where health benefits
increasingly squeeze out services and public amenities.

In Worcester, the cost has far outpaced overall spending. The health-insurance
benefit, 8.4 percent of the operating budget in 1996, has almost doubled to 15
percent - a $60 million line item.

The trend reflects staggering increases in the cost of employees' health plans.
A Blue Cross/Blue Shield family plan that cost $5,406 in 1996 costs $13,839 now.
The Fallon family plan went from $4,375 to $11,845. On average, health insurance
costs more than $11,000 for each employee, $9,923 paid by the city, $1,379 by
the employee.

The soaring health-benefit costs are cutting deeply into other services, far
more than residents might suppose. Using 2002 as a base, city number-crunchers
calculate that $6.9 million had to be diverted from services in 2003 to cover
health insurance, $15 million in 2004 and $24 million this budget year. With
health insurance costs expected to top $70 million next year, the impact on
services will only get worse.

Simply to bring the rate of increase into line with overall spending growth will
require aggressive measures, likely including a restructuring of the benefit to
trim costs and discourage employees from opting for the highest-cost coverage.

With major municipal contract negotiations getting under way, the issue is
likely to dominate the political landscape in the year to come.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              266 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            March 6, 2013 Wednesday

Reilly asks VHI to address costs urgently

BYLINE: MICHAEL O'REGAN

SECTION: IRELAND; Dail Report; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 372 words


Minister for Health James Reilly has said he has asked the VHI to address its
costs as a matter of urgency.

In particular, I have asked them to focus on auditing the volumes of procedures
that they pay for, and to audit from a clinical perspective the appropriateness
of procedures carried out before they fund them,  he added.

I have also stressed to the VHI that they should critically examine the actual
prices they pay, both to health professionals and to private hospitals.

Dr Reilly said he had emphasised the steps he expected to be taken across the
private health insurance industry to keep costs and resulting premiums down.

He said he had established last year the health insurance consultative forum,
made up of representatives from the main health insurance companies, the Health
Insurance Authority and the Department of Health to address health insurance
costs.

The Minister said that just over 2.09 million people had private health
insurance, representing 45.8 per cent of the population.

The numbers insured had fallen by 63,700 (2.9 per cent) last year, which was a
continuation of the declining trend since the peak of 2.2 million, 50.9 per cent
of the population, at the end of 2008.

The Minister was responding to a Fianna F\x90il Private Members  motion calling
on the Government to permit public hospitals to negotiate with health insurers
and use its position as a VHI shareholder to negotiate a reduction in consultant
fees.

Fianna F\x90il spokesman on health Billy Kelleher said there had been massive
increases in the cost of private health insurance in recent years.

A situation had developed, he said, whereby those who could afford only basic
plans subsidised those with  Rolls Royce private health insurance , which was
clearly unjust and unfair.

People were forced to make choices between filling the oil tank, paying the gas
bill or paying their insurance, he added.

Sinn F\xA9in spokesman on health Caoimhgh\xA5n \xE4 Caol\x90in said his party
advocated universal health care, based on equal access for all.

We want that to be State-provided, funded from fair general taxation and free at
the point of delivery,  he added.

This would involve a higher contribution in tax from the highest earners than
they contribute at present.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 14, 2013 Sunday

Eau Claire city, county and school district may form joint health insurance pool

BYLINE: Julian Emerson, The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 939 words


April 14--AFTER YEARS OF DISCUSSIONS -- and in some cases, action -- regarding
combining services, three local public sector units have taken the first step
toward what would be the most significant merger among the city of Eau Claire,
Eau Claire County and the Eau Claire school district.

On Wednesday, the Joint Commission on Shared Services Initiatives, comprising
representatives of those three entities, discussed the possibility of combining
to form one large health insurance pool.

The proposal is in the planning stages, and Wednesday's meeting marked the first
formal discussion among the groups of possibly forming one larger purchasing
group, an effort to reduce health insurance costs that have risen rapidly in
recent years.

The three entities will pay a combined $46 million this year on health care for
employees.

For years, health insurance costs have risen far faster than the amount of
revenue growth available to Wisconsin's municipalities and school districts,
resulting in cuts to programs and services.

"We have to do something," said commission Chairman Dave Duax, an Eau Claire
councilman. "We can't turn our backs on the $46 million gorilla in the corner
any longer, paying more for health insurance year after year. It's going to
break us."

Strength in numbers

The idea behind combining the three entities' nearly 2,500 active and retired
employees and their nearly 4,000 dependents is strength in numbers. More people
in a combined purchasing group offer more negotiating power with providers.

Currently, the city, county and school district seek bids separately and choose
the plan that best fits them. But they are pretty much subject to the prices
they are quoted, leaders of the entities say, and don't have as much bargaining
power as they would like because their individual groups aren't large enough to
significantly impact prices.

The city and school district currently have health insurance contracts with
Group Health Cooperative of Eau Claire, although the school district, prompted
by costs set to rise by 16 percent, is considering switching to Security Health
Plan. Eau Claire County's contract is with the Wisconsin Counties Association
Group Health Trust.

A report compiled by city, county and school district staff attempts to quantify
those groups' health insurance situations. Citing multiple studies, the 143-page
report states that medical care in the Eau Claire area tends to be high quality,
but generally costs more than state and national averages. In addition, the
report states, health insurance premium increases have not been stable or
predictable, making it difficult for local public sector entities to budget for
that cost.

Lots of questions

Questions abound regarding how a combined health insurance group would work,
whether and to what degree the initiative would curb rising health insurance
costs, and whether combining the three organizations' many different bargaining
groups is feasible.

Local officials are studying a variety of possible options, such as:

* Working toward lower health care costs while maintaining separate insurance
plans.

* Consolidating the city, county and school district into one plan.

* Forming a public sector health insurance consortium.

"We aren't anywhere near asking the question of whether this makes fiscal
sense," said Eau Claire City Council President Kerry Kincaid, a commission
member. "But this is an item of high priority for us. We have to find a way to
bring (health insurance) costs down."

Convincing public sector units that typically don't work closely together to
combine on such an important issue may prove challenging, commission members and
local officials acknowledge. But efforts to do so in recent years have
increased, they say, noting such examples as the city, county and school board
sharing the same communication technology system, the city and county combining
land records systems, and the city and county sharing law enforcement space.

"We have shown that we can work together," said County Board Chairman Gregg
Moore, a commission member. "It's not that we haven't been concerned about this
in the past. But we need to look at what more we can do."

Challenges, hope

Forming a health insurance bloc would require convincing city, county and school
district employees to combine, despite differences in their plans.

That may prove difficult, commission members say, because employees may be
unwilling to lose some of their benefits to become part of a larger group. For
instance, Kincaid noted the city's successful efforts in reducing health
insurance increases in recent years by implementing a wellness plan for its
employees but questioned how that effort might be affected by a merger.

"What would we have to give up to be part of this bigger group?" she said. "And
does combining mean the quality of our health care coverage might actually go
down? Does it actually save us money? Those are all questions we need to look
at."

Despite those challenges, commission members and others say they are optimistic
their effort can help curb rising health insurance costs. And if they succeed,
Eau Claire could perhaps serve as a model for others, they say.

"This isn't going to happen overnight," said Dan Van De Water, the Eau Claire
school district's business director. "But there is a real opportunity here for
controlling health insurance costs, and we need to work diligently toward that
end."

Emerson can be reached at 715-830-5911, 800-236-7077 or julian.emerson@ecpc.com

___ (c)2013 the Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wis.) Visit the Leader-Telegram
(Eau Claire, Wis.) at www.leadertelegram.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130414-EW-Eau-Claire-city-county-and-school-district-may-form-joint-
health-insurance-pool-0414-20130414

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                       Copyright 2013 The Leader-Telegram


                              268 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            August 8, 1991, Thursday

EFFORT TO CURB HEALTH COSTS IS HITTING SNAGS

BYLINE: BY RON WINSLOW

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 6

LENGTH: 78 words


Rash of proposed and enacted state laws are hampering corporate America's
efforts to contain health costs, business groups and health insurers say; Health
Insurance Association of America report concludes that legislative efforts,
supported mostly by doctor and hospital groups, threaten to drive up costs of
so-called preferred provider networks and other elements of managed-care
programs that companies are turning to in battle against rising health costs (M)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              269 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Cost of health cover to rise by (EURO)600 a year as young people ditch policies

BYLINE: Charlie Weston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 774 words


HEALTH premiums are set to rise by up to (EURO)600 a year for a typical family,
a shocking new report predicts.

The pressure on premiums is coming from thousands of younger people ditching
their cover, while older people are joining the healthcare system.

Costs of claims for a 70-yearold are 10 times those of someone in their 20s.

Yet both people will pay the same premium if they have the same level of cover.

The rapidly ageing nature of private health insurance, combined with government
plans to charge anyone with insurance for using a public hospital, will send
premiums shooting up, according to a report prepared by economist Colm McCarthy
for Aviva.

Charging insured people for a public bed and the fact that the young are getting
out of the market will mean premium rises of between 20pc and 25pc, the
economist said.

Typical family policies, for two adults and two children, now cost (EURO)2,500 a
year. A rise of 25pc would take the cost to over (EURO)3,000.

Health insurance premiums have more than doubled since 2007.

And Mr McCarthy predicted that thousands more young people are set to leave the
market. This because of unemployment, emigration and mortgage repayment
pressures.

"There will be further premium increases even if there are no cost increases.
This comes on top of big premium increases in the last few years," Mr McCarthy
said.

Legislation is to be enacted in July to charge all those with health insurance
for using public hospitals. This will mean charges of up to (EURO)1,000 a night
even if the person only gets a public bed.

These charges on insurers would be passed on to consumers.

The Government hopes to raise (EURO)60m this year from the move to charge
insurers for anyone with cover who uses a public hospital. In a full year,
(EURO)250m is expected to be raised.

Mr McCarthy said this move alone would add 13pc to the cost of the average
premium.

The rapid ageing of the insured population will add the same again to the cost
of health cover.

In the last five years, 194,000 people under the age of 39 have given up health
insurance.

But over the same period, an extra 52,000 people over the age of 60 have taken
out health insurance.

Mr McCarthy said the loss of so many younger people from the market was
destabilising it and putting the viability of private health insurance at risk.
Overall, 200,000 people left the market since the bust in 2008.

This will make it more difficult for the Government to introduce universal
health insurance by 2016. Under that system, the State will pay for health
premiums for those who are unemployed and on low incomes.

Strategic And those who pay for health cover will be expected to continue to pay
under universal health insurance.

If there are fewer people paying for health cover, it will be harder to finance
a universal system, Mr McCarthy said.

There was a need to cut costs in the public system rather than imposing more
cost on health insurers and their customers, he said.

Aviva chief executive Alison Burns said the market was fragile.

She called for a strategic review of health insurance, and said premiums could
rise by up to 30pc.

Insurance market is showing the symptoms of a 'death spiral' THE health
insurance market in this country is displaying the classic symptoms of a "death
spiral".

That is where the cost of an insurance plan rapidly increases due to changes in
the type of person taking out the cover.

What typically happens is that the least risky ditch their insurance or drop to
a lower level of cover. This death spiral is happening before our eyes in the
private health insurance market. The young, and least risky, are deserting the
market in their droves.

Some 194,000 of those under the age of 40 bailed out in the last five years.
Over the same period, 52,000 people over 60 took out a health insurance policy
for the first time.

This is despite the fact that a healthy young 30 year old will pay the same
premium, for the same level of cover, as a sickly 70 year old. This is what is
known as community rating and is a central plank of Irish health policy.

But a community-rated system needs a large number of younger people coming into
the system to offset the massive cost of older subscribers.

The high numbers of older people with health cover is set to push up premiums by
around 15pc.

Also destabilising the market is the move by Health Minister James Reilly to
charge anyone with insurance for using a public hospital, whether they get a
private, semiprivate or public bed. The Government seems to see those with
health insurance as some sort of cash cow to be repeatedly hit. All of this will
send an average family's policy up by (EURO)600 a year.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                             October 6, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS RISING -- ALBEIT SLOWER

SECTION: INSIDE LOCAL BUSINESS; ON CALL with Phil Galewitz; Pg. 3F

LENGTH: 126 words


When it comes to health insurance costs, even good news isn't all that great.

Employer health insurance costs rose a modest 5 percent this year -- the lowest
annual increase in a decade, according to a report released today by Kaiser
Family Foundation. This year marked the fifth consecutive year of slowing health
insurance cost increases. So what's so bad?

When was the last time you got a 5 percent raise?

Premiums from employer-sponsored health insurance rose to $12,680 for family
coverage this year with employees on average paying $3,354 out of their
paychecks. A decade ago, family premiums cost $5,791 with workers paying $1,543.

At least we can be comforted with the fact that gas prices are increasing faster
than health insurance costs.

-- Phil Galewitz

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  FROM OUR BLOGS A sampling of last week's Business postings at
PalmBeachPost.com/blogs

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 20, 2002 Friday

We must have universal health insurance

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 455 words


Editor: Re: City workers priced out of health insurance, Sept. 18 Times.

The cost of health insurance for Brooksville city employees has risen to beyond
the means of most employees. This is devastating news not only for city
employees, but for everyone.

Accepted as part of this increase is the enormous progress in medical science.
Unaccepted, however, is the bloated administration costs and profits of hundreds
of commercial health insurers. Fortunately, there is a remedy. Replacement of
them by universal health insurance, as single insurer, would reduce costs to
within everyone's reach.

Introduction of universal health insurance is an enormous task. But it can and
must be done. Otherwise, health care insurance costs will increase to beyond the
ability of the many to pay them. This could lead to under-utilization of health
care services. In turn, it could lead to even higher costs for the few able to
pay them.

The message is clear. Any candidate in November for Congressional District 5 who
will fight vigorously and relentlessly for universal health insurance - and
nothing less - should have everyone's vote.

James A. Willan, Brooksville

Is parking lot greenery

going to become a trend?

Editor: Re: Huge blacktop parking lots of the Nature Coast should provide shade.

A couple of years ago, shortly after our last county administrator came onboard,
he was introduced to our development's homeowners association by
then-Commissioner Paul Sullivan. The question was asked at that time if the
county would require less clear-cutting for parking lots by large commercial
establishments, or if we would continue to see the creation of vast blacktop
heat sinks with no trees of consequence to provide a bit of shade for the weary
shopper.

We were told that "future" planning would require more greenery and trees, in
keeping with the area's nickname of the Nature Coast. It is noted that some
beautiful large trees have been saved at the new Brooksville Wal-Mart. Can
residents expect similar treatment of other vast parking lots currently being
constructed in the county?

Parking areas that provide shade are the first to be used. The difference
between parking on blacktop in 90-plus degree weather in the Florida sun, or
under the cooling branches of a tree, is apparent to most drivers.

Perhaps the folks running for County Commission this year, as well as those
currently seated, could address this problem. I, for one, would like to know if
we are going to see more steaming hot parking "deserts" around mega stores, or
if some accommodation will be made for the comfort of residents, as well as a
tip of the hat to the concept of the Nature Coast.

Bonnie S. Recca, Spring Hill

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, Bob Zaratzian; A city worker carries the weight of health
insurance for 2002 on his shoulder, as depicted by a pig, and wonders if it will
ever end.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              272 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Corsicana Daily Sun (Texas)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Navarro Regional Hospital seeks to educate, enroll uninsured

BYLINE: Corsicana Daily Sun, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1448 words


Jan. 09--As part of the Affordable Care Act, most U.S. citizens were required to
have health insurance beginning in 2014. In 2015, there is a penalty if you're
not excluded for a particular reason. Michael Stewart, CEO of Navarro Regional
Hospital, provided some insight into the act and how it impacts you.

Q: What is health insurance?

Stewart: Health insurance is a contract between you and an insurance company.
When you buy a plan or policy, you pay a monthly fee and in return, the company
agrees to pay part of your medical expenses when you get sick or hurt.

Q: Why is it important that citizens have health insurance?

Stewart: While no one plans to get sick or hurt, most people need medical care
at some point. Did you know the average cost of a three-day hospital stay is
$30,000? Or that fixing a broken leg can cost up to $7,500? Having health
insurance helps protect you from unexpected costs like these. Your insurance
policy will outline what types of care, treatments and services are covered,
including how much the insurance company will pay for different treatments in
different situations.

Q: Is having health insurance mandatory?

Stewart: Yes, with few exceptions, most U.S. citizens are required to have
health insurance under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was
signed into law in 2010. Those who do not have minimum essential health coverage
-- like through an employer -- and don't qualify for an exemption, will have to
pay a penalty fee if they don't get health insurance.

Q: What is that penalty?

Stewart: If you can afford health insurance coverage in 2015, but don't sign up,
you will have to pay a penalty ($325 per adult, $162.40 per child -- up to $975
per family or 2 percent of income whichever is higher. And without insurance,
you'll be financially responsible for all of your medical costs.

Q: Who is exempt from having to get health insurance?

Stewart: The list is long, but here are a few reasons why a person might be
exempt: (A) Coverage is unaffordable coverage (more than 8 percent of household
income); (B) You are a member of federally recognized tribe; (C) You are below
tax filing threshold and not required to file taxes; (D) You have been uninsured
for less than three consecutive months during the year.

Q: When can a person purchase health insurance?

Stewart: For the Health Insurance Marketplace, enrollment periods are only for a
specified time during the year. The current enrollment period is from November
15, 2014 through February 15, 2015. You can only purchase insurance outside of
that time period if you have a qualifying life event, such as a marriage,
divorce, new baby, and change of income, to name a few. You are considered
covered if you have Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, any job-based plan, any plan
you've purchased yourself, COBRA, retiree coverage, Tricare, VA health coverage.

Q: How much does health insurance cost?

Stewart: Each plan varies in terms of overall cost and depends on the amount of
premium and deductible you choose. The premiums amount of money charged for a
certain amount of insurance coverage each year. You may also have an annual
deductible. This is the amount you must pay out of your pocket before the
insurance company will pay any expenses. For example, let's say you have a plan
with a $200 deductible. You go to the doctor and the total cost is $250. You pay
the first $200 to cover the deductible, and then your insurance pays its share.
How much you pay for your premium and deductible depends on the type of
insurance you have and whether you're purchasing individual or family coverage.

Q: What types of plans are there?

Stewart: There are four levels of qualified health plans on the Health Insurance
Marketplace: platinum, gold, silver, and bronze. Each category has a different
monthly premium costs, as well as deductible. There are a lot of affordable
options on the Health Insurance Marketplace and you can compare each plan side
by side so you can find the plan that meets you and/or your family's needs.

Q: Is there any help available if you can't afford health insurance?

Stewart: The federal government can assist some individuals and families with
their premiums costs by providing subsidies to those who qualify based on their
income. For example, if a family of four had an income of about $40,000 in 2014,
they maybe eligible for subsidy assistance on premium costs that exceed 5
percent of their income. If that same family of four purchases a Silver plan
that might cost them around $9,400 per year, they could eligible to receive
subsidy assistance of up to almost $7,400; which means they would only be
responsible for about $2,000 of the insurance premium costs themselves.

Q: What if you have a preexisting condition like a previous cancer, a diabetes
diagnosis or are pregnant?

Stewart: You cannot be excluded from coverage for any preexisting condition.
And, equally important, parents can cover their children up to age 26 on their
insurance plan.

Q: What do I need to do if I enrolled last year and have coverage?

Stewart: The federal government has announced that for those consumers who are
already enrolled in a Marketplace plan in 2014, they will have an automatic
enrollment option to select the same health plan coverage in 2015. Of course,
these individuals and families have the option to shop for other coverage
choices, as well. The Marketplace enrollment tools spell out the steps consumers
will need to take for either the option to auto-enroll in the same health
insurance coverage, or to shop for other choices.

Q: What else does a health insurance cover?

Stewart: In addition to pre-existing conditions, all qualified health plans must
offer Ambulatory patient services; Hospitalization and emergency services;
Maternity and newborn care; Mental Health and substance use disorder;
Prescription drugs; Lab services; Preventative and wellness services; Chronic
disease management; and Pediatric services, including dental and vision care. Of
course, you have to meet your deductible before insurance pays.

Q: Are there qualified health plans cover preventive care services at no charge?

Stewart: Yes, qualified plans cover many preventive care screenings, tests and
services such as vaccinations that can help adults and children stay healthy.
And the best news is, they're free -- no copays or deductibles. Depending on
your age, gender and other risk factors, your doctor may tell you it's time for
a mammogram, colonoscopy or other screening that can detect cancer or disease in
its earliest, most treatable stages. Or, it may be time to screen for high blood
pressure or high cholesterol to give your doctor information that can help
prevent a stroke or heart attack.

For women, many preventive care screenings, tests and supplies that can help
with family planning and pregnancy are now covered, along with services such as
these: Well-woman checkups; Contraceptives and birth control counseling;
Screenings during pregnancy for a variety of conditions; Breastfeeding supplies,
support and counseling.

Q: Besides a health insurance plan on the Health Insurance Marketplace, what
other types of health insurance are available?

Stewart: Many families with limited income will qualify for Medicaid or
Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and they can enroll any time of the
year. Medicaid provides health coverage for some low-income people, families and
children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people with disabilities. In some
states the program covers all low-income adults below a certain income level.
CHIP provides low-cost health coverage to children in families that earn too
much money to qualify for Medicaid. In some states, CHIP covers parents and
pregnant women. Each state offers CHIP coverage, and works closely with its
state Medicaid program.

Q: How can local, uninsured residents find help with enrollment?

Stewart: As a service to our community Navarro Regional can help uninsured
residents review coverage options on the Health Insurance Marketplace, or
determine eligibility for Medicaid. We can also assist with re-enrollment, or
with special enrollment if someone has had a life change, such as a marriage,
divorce, job loss, etc. All they need to do is schedule an appointment with one
of our application coordinators by calling 903-654-1028. Also have
Spanish-speaking representatives available to assist.

Submitted by Navarro Regional Hospital and reprinted as a public service. You
may reach the Daily Sun newsroom by email at news@corsicanadailysun.com

___ (c)2015 the Corsicana Daily Sun (Corsicana, Texas) Visit the Corsicana Daily
Sun (Corsicana, Texas) at corsicanadailysun.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20150109-XQ-Navarro-Regional-Hospital-seeks-to-educate-enroll-uninsured-0109-201
50109

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XQ


                       Copyright 2015 Corsicana Daily Sun


                              273 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday

High health insurance cost keeps buyers at bay

BYLINE: Riju Dave Mehta

SECTION: ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 113 words


Most prefer to rely on cash savings to take care of their medical costs in
retirement, reveals the recent Max Bupa Health Insurance Pulse 2015 survey. Riju
Dave lists some key findings.

What is the reason for not purchasing health insurance?

What is the reason for buying health insurance?

Do you know how to top up the base policy?

Are you aware of the difference between cashless claims and reimbursements?

How will you pay for medical costs after retirement?

Are you aware of the following terms and conditions of your health policy?

Are you aware of the tax benefit in buying health insurance?

If you were aware of tax benefit, did you avail of it?

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                    Wilkes Barre Times Leader (Pennsylvania)

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday

Growing health-care gap can no longer be ignored

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 479 words


THE NUMBER of Americans without health insurance grew by nearly 1.3 million in
2005, the sixth straight year it has increased. Nearly 46.6 million people are
now uninsured, the U.S. Census Bureau reported this week. If that doesn't push
health care into the center ring of the 2008 election circus, it is hard to know
what will.

What this means is that about 16 percent of Americans had no health coverage in
2005. From 2000 to 2005, the number of Americans without health insurance grew
by nearly 7 million.

It is now inescapably clear that a structural change is under way in how
Americans pay for health care: Employers want out from under the costs, and
government can't afford them, either. That change will not be eased by an
improving economy, it leaves increasing numbers of working people either without
access to care or impoverished by its costs.

In the absence of a national plan, these changes could sink the health care
system we all depend upon. That's because the cost of caring for people without
insurance is covered either by tax dollars (through Medicaid, which makes
payments to hospitals based on their number of uninsured patients), or by "cost
-shifting." That's a long-standing practice by hospitals of charging people with
insurance slightly more than what it costs to care for them; the extra money
covers care to those who can't pay.

The fewer Americans without health insurance, the smaller the cost shift;
conversely, the more Americans without health insurance, the greater the cost
shift. Some experts estimate that the cost shift adds $900 a year to the
premiums of those with health insurance. And as premiums increase, more
individuals and employers can't afford them, feeding the vicious cycle. At some
point - no one knows exactly where - the cost shift becomes unsustainable and
hospitals can't stay in business.

Most Americans still have access to health care, and most still get health
insurance through their jobs. But that's changing rapidly. In 2000, 64 percent
of Americans had employer-provided health coverage; last year, only 59.5 percent
did. Demographers say the drop in employer-provided coverage accounts for most
of the increase in the number of uninsured.

As always, low-income, low-skill workers and their children are the hardest hit.
About one child in five living in poverty has no health insurance. About one
adult in four earning less than $25,000 a year has no health insurance.

It's long past the time for Congress, employers, insurance companies, workers
and health care providers to come together and hammer out a viable, long-range
health care strategy for all of America - those with good benefits, those with
dwindling benefits and those with none at all - that spreads risk, pools
resources and contains costs. The conversation should start now, while we still
have a health care system to save.

St. Louis Post-Dispatch

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Wilkes Barre Times Leader
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                       April 25, 2004 Sunday Home Edition

OUR OPINION: EDITORIAL: Health care system needs doctoring

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 681 words


The American health care system is in some ways like the Titanic. It is big and
luxurious and a showplace for the last word in technology. It is committed to
its clientele, especially those in the upper decks. Many of the people bidding
the ocean liner farewell from the shore wish that they could come aboard, but
even though they work hard, sometimes holding down two jobs at a time, they just
can't afford it.

Our titanic medical delivery system is the envy of the world, embraced and
patronized by kings and potentates. Surely its future is guaranteed.

Or is it?

Critics of our $1.6 trillion health care industry warn of real trouble ahead. We
spend more per capita than any nation in the world, yet the CIA World Fact Book
rates us 48th in life expectancy, compared to 11th for neighboring Canada. We
annually squander some $135 billion in lost productivity due to illness, much of
it preventable, and an estimated 15 percent of our population --- some 43.6
million people --- lived without health insurance for all of 2002. According to
Census Bureau figures, 25.6 million of those without insurance worked either
part time or full time.

But the truly big iceberg looming dead ahead is the rising cost of health care,
including prescription drugs and hospital care. That is driving some employers
to drop job-related health insurance, and is putting others at a serious
disadvantage with foreign competitors that do not have to cover health insurance
costs for their employees.

In the fierce, globally competitive auto industry, for instance, accountants
estimate that health insurance costs for U.S. manufacturers add $1,300 to the
price of each vehicle, even more than the cost of steel. European manufacturers,
in contrast, often benefit from government health insurance plans that keep
companies off the hook. The lure of avoiding health insurance costs also helps
account for the outsourcing of jobs overseas.

Technology also poses a threat to the current U.S. health care system. Genetic
research, for example, may soon identify which of us are prone to certain
diseases, thereby making preventive care possible. But it will also help
insurance companies identify which of us are at higher risk of illnesses that
threaten to be chronic and even catastrophic, allowing the companies to deny
coverage for those people. After all, as one traditional insurance source put
it, "We are not in the habit of insuring burning houses."

A decade ago, the Clinton administration made a well-intended but poorly handled
bid to introduce universal, single-payer coverage, an effort that ended in
political disaster for Democrats and took the issue off the national agenda. The
passage of time, however, has only confirmed the initial attractions of that
approach. In a lengthy piece in the April 18 New York Times Sunday Magazine,
former first lady Hillary Clinton, now a U.S. senator from New York, argues for
an overall system that pools risk and directs funds to a comprehensive plan that
takes care of health needs and focuses on health maintenance.

Such a plan could focus on efficiencies of delivery and mandate research on
illnesses that are neglected because the numbers of the sick are small --- for
instance, serious diseases such as epilepsy and killers such as scleroderma. A
managed health care program could also guide and finance research into
overarching health problems such as asthma and other pulmonary diseases.

Inevitably, a single-payer system would create challenges of its own, and may
not be the ultimate answer. But the business community that bitterly opposed the
concept a decade ago is now beginning to see financial merits in the approach.
Doctors, hospitals and patients struggling to deal with an ever-more complex
private insurance scheme may prove more open to the idea as well. And the
inescapable truth is that for all of its technology and know-how, the United
States gets less cure for its health care buck than any other highly advanced
nation.

Surely that's sufficient cause to rethink what we've been doing.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: LIFE EXPECTANCY
The United States ranks 48th out of 225 countries surveyed. Here are the top 50
countries, according to life expectancy at birth:
1. Andorra................83.49
2. Macau..................81.87
3. San Marino........... 81.43
4. Japan..................80.93
5. Singapore..............80.42
6. Australia..............80.13
7. Guernsey............. 80.04
8. Switzerland............79.99
9. Sweden............... 79.97
10. Hong Kong........... 79.93
11. Canada................79.83
12. Iceland............. 79.80
13. Cayman Islands........79.76
14. Italy............... 79.40
15. Gibraltar........... 79.38
16. France................79.28
17. Monaco................79.27
18. Liechtenstein....... 79.25
19. Spain............... 79.23
20. Norway................79.09
21. Israel................79.02
22. Jersey................78.93
23. Faroe Islands....... 78.90
24. Greece................78.89
25. Aruba............... 78.83
26. Netherlands......... 78.74
27. Martinique............78.72
28. Virgin Islands........78.59
29. Malta............... 78.43
30. Germany............. 78.42
31. Montserrat............78.36
32. New Zealand......... 78.32
33. Belgium............. 78.29
34. Guam..................78.27
35. Austria............. 78.17
36. United Kingdom........78.16
37. St. Pierre / Miquelon 78.11
38. Isle of Man......... 77.98
39. Finland............. 77.92
40. Jordan................77.88
41. Luxembourg............77.66
42. Guadeloupe............77.53
43. Bermuda............. 77.41
44. Saint Helena..........77.38
45. Ireland............. 77.35
46. Cyprus................77.27
47. Puerto Rico......... 77.26
48. United States....... 77.14
49. Denmark............. 77.10
50. Taiwan................76.87
SOURCE: CIA World Factbook, 2003

                Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              276 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 13, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

Basics of Canada's health plan can work in the U.S.

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; LETTERS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 1647 words



Re: Health insurers outline plan requiring coverage for all, Dec. 4.

The announcement of the Health Insurance Association of America that they  now
favor health coverage for all Americans is ironic since they and their  members
have been the main elements in preventing such coverage for many  Americans who
are unemployed or who have pre-existing conditions, or who have  costly health
problems.

It is also deceiving because the main purpose of the change of attitude is  to
ensure that they will continue to be the only providers of health  insurance,
and can continue to confuse and delay the payment of benefits by  use of a
multitude of differing forms as well as denying benefits which should  be paid.
In short, it would continue to saddle our health system with  excessive
administrative costs.

Their new policy contains nothing to constructively control the excessive  cost
of medical services and prescription drugs, but neatly passes that ball  to
government. Neither does it treat the need for long-term care.

The policy recommends that the cost be assumed by insured individuals whose
benefits exceed a minimum benefit package. This would have a leveling effect
which would eventually lower all coverage to the least common denominator.  That
is the wrong direction; there is an urgent need to expand the health  benefits
of all Americans.

Some of the cost of a national health plan should come from the profits of  the
health insurance industry and the elimination of the vast administrative  costs
imposed by that industry. The essence of their new policy asks that a  national
health insurance plan bear the unnecessary and high cost of  continuing the
administrative inefficiencies and confusing complexities of the  past.

If a good and proven national health insurance plan is desired, one need  only
look to the study of the U.S. General Accounting Office dated June, 1991  which
found that if the Canadian plan had been applied in our country, it  would have
provided coverage for all while preserving choice of medical  provider. The
study further found that the savings in administrative costs  would be more than
enough to finance coverage for the 37-million Americans  currently uninsured.

Good sense and reason dictate that we apply the basics of the Canadian plan  to
our country. Contrary to the falsehoods of those who oppose this direction,  the
Canadian plan is not socialized medicine. Doctors do not work for the
government.

We can get that insurance industry "monkey" off our backs!

Tony Connole, Homosassa

Altman's "tale of woe'

Re: Consultants out of control, Dec. 1.

Martin Dyckman's column states the Democratic Party is doing a  "post-election
analysis."

Having done my own analysis of Peter Altman's sad tale of woe, that he was
compelled by the Democratic bureaucracy to run a false TV advertisement the
last week of the campaign against his opponent Curt Kiser, Altman had two
choices:

1.For $ 40,000 I will agree to run a TV commercial against my opponent that  is
false and misleading; or

2.I will not.

He went for No. 1. Thoughtful? Progressive? Innovative? Candid? A straight
arrow? Not likely. So much for his reputation. The best man won.

Hazel Nichols, Holiday

Dyckman needs a few more consultants of his own before firming up his  analysis
of Peter Altman as an innocent victim of the Democratic Party's  skulduggery.
The majority of us (who voted) see him as a tunnel-visioned  juggernaut willing
to spend every dime of the taxpayers' money on something -  any thing - big
enough to be named "The Altman Museum," or road, or maybe  even the Altman Dome?



B. Moss, New Port Richey

To me, one paragraph of Martin Dyckman's column on Peter Altman's unfair
campaigning stood out.

"Acknowledging that Altman wanted to run a positive campaign, Adkins says
Altman didn't have time or money enough for it."

I think he left out backbone.

Thomas Sherry, New Port Richey

Martin Dyckman's crusade against big-money politics is laudable, but in his
recent harangue, Consultants out of control, he unfortunately disregards the
facts to meet his ideological agenda. Had he phoned me, instead of writing
about me and ascribing misleading quotations, he might have learned the truth
about Peter Altman.

Dyckman bungles the facts on Senate V'92 spending, but his overall point is
correct: There is too much special interest money in politics. I'll admit I
made a factual error in the ad against Kiser. I relied on information given to
me directly from the Altman campaign - silly me. However, the central message
was true. Kiser had unethically taken junkets around the country at lobbyists'
expense; even the St. Petersburg Times found this to be reprehensible.

Altman never expressed concern to me over factual errors in the ad. He  simply
did not like its humor. He then lied, claiming he used all party funds  for
television time, when he actually diverted funds. Altman produced an ad  using a
jail-bars montage over Kiser's face. To have suggested criminality and
imprisonment, as Altman did, was unethical and misleading. V'92 had no
intention of paying for that kind of ineffective smear.

Altman convinced Dyckman that V'92 should have acted earlier to help the
campaign. Sadly, our strategy was constrained by some personal financial
problems he had in the past. We had some concerns, so we had no choice but to
lie low until the end of the campaign and then try to surprise Kiser with a
strong finish.

Some day Altman may make a good public official, once he gains more  maturity.
Dyckman, however, should stop mindlessly recycling his writings from  the '60s
and '70s. Instead, he should point his poison pen at the real  culprits in
political money game: himself, his paper, and the television and  radio stations
who profit from candidates forced into paying fortunes to the  media to get
across their campaign messages.

Timothy John Walker, Miami Beach

Hidden video defended

Re: Lies and video tape, editorial, Dec. 7.

"Desktop" journalism as practiced by the pundits would suggest a reporter  never
misrepresent himself in the field. No problem in an ideal world. But the  fact
of the matter is, that's not always possible.

In regards to "hidden video" in television newsgathering, sometimes the
"greater good" does, in fact, take precedence over longstanding ethical
procedures. For example, a story exposing housing discrimination which aired
last summer could only have been produced using hidden cameras with producers
posing as prospective renters. The technique resulted in documenting several
blatant instances of racial discrimination at bay area apartment/condominium
complexes. Officials monitoring fair housing use the same technique without
cameras. Also, "hidden video" allowed us to document health and safety
violations at a Tampa day care center (i.e., a child playing with a floor fan,
and no soap and toilet tissue in the bathroom).

In each instance using "hidden video," powerful truthful images emerged.  Not
distortion or sensationalism. By announcing we are the news media in these
situations only creates an obstacle in the road to get to the truth. Is it
unlawful? No. Is it unethical? Depends on who you talk to - the pundits or the
victims of discrimination and bad day care.

Steve Geiger, Special Projects Director,

WTVT-TV, Eyewitness News, Tampa

Save the parks

I am sure I've written you before to say that I really could not start my  day
without the St. Petersburg Times. But the Dec. 5 opinion page really set  me
off! I can't even finish my beloved crossword puzzles (or even breakfast)  until
I respond.

Of course, it is the matter of the closing of state parks!

That wonderful letter from Ralph Heath Jr. and the one from the Mercks  should
convince Tallahassee, et al, that it would be ruinous to Florida's  tourism and
even our schoolchildren.

Dorothy M.N. Sherrick, Dunedin

On fluoride

Another anti-fluoride letter! (Dec. 7). But now the menace of fluoridation  is
no longer a socialist plot, for that sounds even sillier today than it did  in
the '50s and '60s. It's the media. That's right, the media is refusing to
publish the facts uncovered by other scientists. But, hey, you know the media.
Haven't they kept us from knowing all about those alien bodies the government
has on ice in Colorado?

Jonathan Wade, Largo

Why do some people still live in the dark ages here in Florida? In New York
City we have had fluoridated water for over 20 years and no one died or got
sick from it. I am 73 years old, have all my own teeth less two, and had only
one cavity since living in Florida in the last six years. If we had good
results in New York City, then it should work fine in Florida.

Arthur R. Mitchell, New Port Richey

Another view

I am constantly amazed at the audacity of the members of our city  government.
They continue to deny the citizens of St. Petersburg the right to  vote on
issues of extreme importance to their health and economic status,  namely the
stadium and the addition of fluoride to our drinking water.

The only logical explanation for this is they know neither would have  passed. I
think the citizens of this city have about had enough of this style  of
management. It's time for a change. Let's get back to "government by the
people" and be done with "big brotherism." Is it any wonder people don't
register or turn out to vote? It has been demonstrated that most of the time,
the will of the people is ignored. "Big brother city council" is going to do
what it thinks is best for you.

Anyone want to buy a stadium cheap?

L. J. Edgar, St. Petersburg

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                            Times Publishing Company


                              277 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                          November 23, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Health care changes given 6-month pause;
Council approves $480K to cover costs

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 646 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


The City Council last night appropriated $486,000 so City Manager Michael V.
O'Brien can defer for six months health care cost changes he wants to implement
for municipal and public school retirees enrolled in conventional city health
insurance plans.

The appropriation was needed to cover the cost of maintaining the current health
insurance premium and benefit structure for retirees for the last six months of
this fiscal year.

Mr. O'Brien had wanted to implement his cost changes Jan. 1. Under his plan,
retirees covered under the city's conventional health insurance plans would have
started paying 20 percent of their premium costs, while the city paid the
remaining 80 percent. Currently, retirees contribute no more than 13 percent to
the cost of health care.

They also would have paid more for prescription drugs and doctor office visits.

But several city councilors last week criticized the process and timing used by
the manager in rolling out his plan. In the wake of that criticism, Mr. O'Brien
asked the council for one week to further study the matter and weigh the
concerns raised by councilors.

He then decided on the delaying the changes to July 1.

"I heard from the City Council last week, and I heard what was said loud and
clear," Mr. O'Brien said. "For those reasons, I've decided to delay the
implementation of these reforms (until July 1) so we can have time to work with
our retirees and provide them all the information necessary as to the various
opportunities available during open enrollment (in the spring).

"It is important to note, however, that we need to do something to tame our
health insurance costs," the manager added. "The increasing cost of health
insurance is sapping our financial resources and our ability to provide
services."

Mr. O'Brien said he also intends to meet with the city's Insurance Advisory
Committee to discuss the matter. Municipal employee union leaders have
criticized the manager for bypassing the Insurance Advisory Committee, which is
made up of union and retiree representatives.

Since 2001, overall city health insurance costs have increased 98 percent, from
$33.4 million to nearly $65.9 million, the manager said. That increase is 35
percent higher than the statewide average.

There are 4,431 retirees enrolled in health insurance plans offered by the city.
Of that total, 2,731 are in Medicare supplemental plans. Mr. O'Brien said those
retirees have been and will continue to pay 25 percent contribution rates, while
the city pays 75 percent.

Meanwhile, the remaining 1,700 retirees are in conventional active health plans,
such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield Blue Choice, Fallon Select and Fallon Direct.
Under those plans, the city picks up the tab for 87 percent of the premiums for
the Blue Cross plan it offers and 90 percent of the premiums for the plans
provided by Fallon.

It is that group of retirees that Mr. O'Brien has targeted for the benefit cost
changes.

Several councilors last night applauded the manager for his decision to defer
the changes for six months. They emphasized that they did not disagree with the
need to implement such changes, but rather disagreed with the timing and process
that was used in dealing with the retirees.

"It takes a great man to admit that maybe he could have done things better,"
said Councilor-at-Large Dennis L. Irish. "We have done the right thing for our
retirees."

Mayor Timothy P. Murray said he hopes the retirees are allowed to work "shoulder
to shoulder" with the city administration to come up with a more equitable
approach to the health insurance problem.

"The manager has recognized there is a degree of sensitivity to this issue," Mr.
Murray said. "We all understand that we need to find a better way to address the
issue of health insurance. Clearly, the retirees have earned that and hopefully
a better outcome can be achieved than what was originally intended."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      July 27, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner Holds Public Informational Hearing on Health
Insurance Rate Requests, Hears Testimony from Consumers, Companies, Other
Stakeholders

LENGTH: 1048  words


July 27 -- Insurance Commissioner Teresa Miller today held a public
informational hearing to address proposed rate requests for 2017 individual
health insurance plans available through the federal marketplace. The Insurance
Department is currently conducting its review of filed rate requests in advance
of open enrollment for 2017 health insurance coverage, which begins on November
1, 2016.

"The cost of health insurance and the impact these costs have on consumers is
something my department takes very seriously when reviewing requests for rate
increases," said Commissioner Miller. "However, cost is not the only measure of
impact on consumers. As Insurance Commissioner, I am also charged with ensuring
this market is sustainable and that Pennsylvania's consumers continue to have
choices when they seek health insurance coverage."

Commissioner Miller explained that many companies are seeing higher spending on
medical care than they originally anticipated, resulting in losses on these
products. These losses are causing insurers to leave markets around the country,
a trend the Insurance Department is trying to prevent in Pennsylvania to
maintain the competitive market and ensure consumers continue to have options
for their health insurance.

"We need to ensure that Pennsylvania's market is attractive for insurers to sell
in as well as for consumers to buy from," said Commissioner Miller. "We must
find a balance between those two aims in order to have a competitive and
sustainable marketplace."

Commissioner Miller was joined by Johanna Fabian-Marks, Director of the
department's Bureau of Life, Accident, and Health Insurance, who began the
hearing by detailing the department's rate review process as well as some of the
factors staff take into consideration when reviewing proposed health insurance
rates.

Before hearing from companies that sell health insurance in Pennsylvania, Art
Lucker, an actuary with INS Consultants in Philadelphia, spoke to the Insurance
Department and hearing attendees in order to provide a national perspective on
the state of health insurance marketplaces around the country. Rate requests
from health insurers for 2017 have been a point of concern in multiple states,
and Lucker cited multiple factors, including aspects of the Affordable Care Act,
that have changed the health insurance landscape and resulted in rate increases.

Lucker detailed three programs in the Affordable Care Act - reinsurance, risk
corridors, and risk adjustment - that were designed to help companies control
costs and stabilize premiums. The risk corridors program in particular has
created challenges for insurers. The program was designed to offset insurers'
losses on higher risk plans with gains on lower risk plans. However, gains were
lower than expected and the program was made budget-neutral, so many companies
have not received the payments they expected.

"Only 12.4 percent of the [risk corridors] payments were made," said Lucker.

Commissioner Miller then heard presentations from six companies that sell health
insurance in Pennsylvania through the federal marketplace. Representatives from
Highmark, Aetna, Independence Blue Cross, Capital Blue Cross, UPMC Health Plan,
and Geisinger Health Plan explained their rationale in requesting their proposed
rates and why they believe the requested increases are necessary. The Insurance
Department then questioned the companies on some of the key issues regarding
their proposed rate filings and the impact on consumers.

Companies expressed their commitment to provide quality coverage to consumers,
but voiced concerns over the uncertainty of the market.

"We've come a long way in a very short time, but the law is not perfect," said
Paula Sunshine, senior vice president and chief marketing executive of
Independence Blue Cross. "We're trying to balance both access and uncertainty.
There are consequences to carriers not getting payments they expect."

After the completion of the presentations, consumers and interested parties who
attended the hearing were given the opportunity to offer comments on the
proposed rates. Consumers who spoke told stories of their experiences with
rising health insurance costs.

"Insurance companies continue to shift these costs on to people every year,"
said Jacob Hope, an enrollment assister who works in Philadelphia. "These
actions have real consequences. Any further increase in costs will push people
to [enroll in] worse plans or [to opt] out of the marketplace completely."

Those who spoke voiced concerns that requested rates would make purchasing
health insurance coverage too expensive and out-of-pocket costs like
deductibles, copays, and coinsurance, in addition to premiums, would create
financial burdens when utilizing care.

"I understand that the size of some of these requests is concerning, but I
promise you all that my department does not take your comments and your concerns
lightly as we continue our review," said Commissioner Miller. "It is important
to remember that there are many options out there, and roughly 75% of
Pennsylvanians shopping on Healthcare.gov will receive subsidies to help off-set
their costs. The Insurance Department is committed to sustaining our health
insurance market so consumers will continue to have options for quality and
affordable care."

At the conclusion of the hearing, Commissioner Miller reinforced her commitment
to making sure consumers are engaged in the rate review process.

"Transparency is something that both I and Governor Wolf take very seriously,"
said Commissioner Miller, "I hope everyone can leave today with a better
understanding of how our review process works and of the various factors we must
consider when reviewing these rate requests."

Interested consumers who were unable to attend the hearing are invited to submit
written comments to ra-rateform@pa.gov A video of the hearing will be made
available at www.insurance.pa.gov in the coming days. Final rates, as well as
justifications for the department's decisions, will be available in mid-October.

For more information on rate requests for 2017, including a video on how rates
are decided and proposed rates for where you reside, visit the Insurance
Department's homepage for Affordable Care Act rate filings.

Source: Pennsylvania Insurance Department

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           December 12, 2013 Thursday

The case for single-payer health care system;
GUEST COLUMN

BYLINE: By John LeMoult Guest columnist

SECTION: IDEAS & VOICES; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 827 words


John E. LeMoult is a writer and retired attorney. He lives in Xenia.

A recent letter writer wondered why we do not have a single-payer health
insurance system like that in Canada and much of Europe ("A nightmarish piece of
legislation," Nov. 26).

She opined that most of the countries of Europe must be laughing at us for our
pretensions of being the world's leading nation when we don't even have a modern
health insurance system. Under a single-payer system, the government would
provide health insurance for all citizens in America, just as it does now for
those on Medicare. It would also cover dental, eye and psychiatric care.

Some would say that we no longer need a single-payer system because Obamacare,
the Affordable Care Act (ACA), provides sufficient coverage for health costs.
Although there was a strong effort made in Congress to include a "public option"
in the ACA, that effort was defeated by senators like Joe Lieberman from the
insurance capital of America, Connecticut, and Max Baucus, from the very
conservative state of Montana.

A public option would have allowed people to purchase health insurance from the
government at a cost considerably lower than that charged by private insurance
companies. Even under the ACA, with its insurance exchanges, insurance companies
will still have the power to set premiums that could be expensive for
middle-class people.

The reason we do not have a single-payer system is not that the public opposes
such a change. Many polls, including recent polls by ABC News/ Washington Post
and CBS News/The New York Times, show that Americans prefer a universal health
insurance program, comparable to the system in Canada, over the current system
by a 2-1 margin.

Nor is the reason we do not have a single-payer system that such a system would
be more expensive than the kind of private insurance system we have now. A
single-payer system would save the government billions of dollars in health
insurance costs. It would cost individuals only a 2 percent tax, or around
$1,200 per year for someone earning $60,000 a year. That's about $4,800 less
than the $6,000 you now pay for company insurance premiums, deductibles and
co-pays. It is also substantially less than most people will have to pay for
health insurance under the ACA.

Private insurance companies in the U.S. waste about $400 billion a year on
administrative costs. Even under the ACA, the health insurance system would
still be run by the private insurance companies and much of the administrative
costs would remain. Under a single-payer system, all of those administrative
costs would be eliminated. The government would simply provide Medicare for
everybody, not just seniors.

The reason we do not have a single-payer system is not that the quality of
health care under a single-payer system would suffer and that we Americans could
no longer brag about our outstanding medical establishment. The truth is that
our health care system is very far from the best in the world. The countries
with single-payer systems are doing far better than we are. The World Health
Organization ranks the United States' health care system 37th in the world,
behind Canada and most of the single-payer health care countries in Europe. (We
did beat out Slovenia and Brunei.)

The main reason why we do not have a single-payer system is that such a system
would dramatically reduce the revenue of private insurance companies, and those
companies have used their enormous power and wealth to strong-arm Republican and
conservative Democratic legislators into blocking it.

A single-payer system would not put all health insurance companies out of
business. They would be able to go on providing several types of health
insurance, including the kind that we call "Medigap," which is used by seniors
today to pay for costs not covered by Medicare.

Is it reasonable to argue that we should not create a single-payer system
because it would financially impair private insurance companies and perhaps
cause the loss of jobs? No. As time and technology change, many businesses and
products become obsolete. Should we continue to support the manufacture and sale
of buggy whips?

Right-wing demagogues will argue that a single-payer program is "socialized
medicine." That is mendacious nonsense. The same people argued that Medicare was
socialized medicine when it was introduced. A single-payer system would not do
away with private doctors. Under a single-payer system, people would be able to
choose their own doctors, specialists, clinics and hospitals.

While many more people will be covered under the ACA, our insurance will still
be in the hands of private companies

- with their insatiable greed and willingness to strangle the middle class.
Perhaps this is a moral question. Do we want to save lives and make it possible
for everybody to have quality health care under an inexpensive system? Or do we
want to preserve the profits and privileges of the private insurance industry?

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              280 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                            October 21, 2008 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

More health savings;
Manager's proposals aim for benefits equity

SECTION: EDITORIAL; IN OUR OPINION; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


City Manager Michael V. O'Brien tonight will ask the City Council's support for
measures to make health benefits for employees more equitable and affordable. In
the current economic climate, with cuts in state aid possible, measures to
maintain municipal budget stability are essential.

Mr. O'Brien proposes a package of reforms to rein in the hyperinflationary cost
of health benefits for employees and retirees. Keeping health coverage costs at
a sustainable level has been a cost-control priority for years.

First, he recommends improving benefit equity by standardizing the city's share
of health insurance costs at 75 percent for all employees and retirees. That is
the norm for many public-sector employees, including some in Worcester, and is
considerably more generous than some plans in the private sector. Standardizing
on a 75-25 formula is a matter of fairness - and a cost-control measure needed
to buttress the city's fiscal position against economic challenges to come.

Once the 75-25 split is locked in, the manager recommends taking another step
toward equity by using coalition bargaining for health insurance. Adopting
so-called "Section 19" would help balance the benefits of all employees. It also
would reduce the ratcheting up of health insurance costs as bargaining units vie
to negotiate the most generous contracts.

Finally, in a bid to restrain health-insurance costs overall, the manager
recommends the city take advantage of the buying power of the state's Group
Insurance Commission, which negotiates with insurers for high-volume discounts.
Worcester cannot afford to pass up the kind of savings GIC-member communities
already are realizing.

Mr. O'Brien correctly points out that the three measures should be adopted as a
package to fully exploit the potential savings, which he estimates at up to $9
million in the first year, and more in years to come. In a time of economic
uncertainty, the manager's health-benefit equity package deserves prompt and
favorable council consideration.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                          September 30, 2004, Thursday

Health-insurance premiums bite off bigger chunk of Utah paychecks, report says

BYLINE: By Lesley Mitchell

LENGTH: 639 words



A new report backs up claims by Utah workers who say the rising cost of health
care coverage has shrunk their paychecks.

Health insurance premiums paid by workers in Utah have risen over the past four
years five times faster than incomes in the state, according to a study prepared
for Families USA, a health-care coverage advocacy group.

According to the report, premiums paid by Utah workers rose 66.3 percent from
2000 to 2004, much higher than the national average increase over the same time
period of 35.9 percent. Average worker earnings in Utah rose only 13.2 percent
during the same time period compared with 12.4 percent nationally, leaving many
Utah workers with less take-home pay today than four years ago.

The disparity between the growth in the cost of health care and incomes in the
state is the third highest in the nation. Alaska is the worst, where the cost of
health care coverage has grown 6.2 times faster than incomes, followed by
Mississippi and South Dakota, which tied with health care costs growing 5.4
times faster than incomes.

The study, conducted by Lewin Group, a health research consulting company, is
based on a variety of sources, including the Census Bureau data and state and
federal wage reports.

"What this report shows is absolutely tragic," said Judi Hilman, health policy
director for Utah Issues, an advocacy group for low-income Utahns. "We're going
to see a significant increase in the number of uninsured people if premiums keep
increasing faster than incomes. People are going to go without health care
coverage or they will try and keep their coverage but do without other basic
necessities for their families."

While the cost of health care in Utah -- and nationwide -- has grown in recent
years, many Utah workers this year were shocked by sizeable increases in the
amount they have to pay for coverage. In some cases, the amount deducted from
employee paychecks for health insurance doubled as employers passed a greater
share of the costs on to their employees to cope with rising costs.

Workers at air-bag manufacturer Autoliv, which employs about 5,000 in Utah, are
required to pay about 10 percent of their employees' health insurance coverage
this year, up from about 5 percent last year. The company, however, shoulders
the greatest burden of premium costs by paying the other 90 percent.

Employees at health insurance provider Regence BlueCross BlueShield last year on
average paid 12 percent of their health insurance premiums; this year they are
paying 30 percent. The company pays the remaining 70 percent.

Wells Fargo economist Kelly Matthews said it is important to keep in mind that
while employees have paid more toward their health care coverage costs, so have
companies.

"In fact, many companies have worked hard to avoid having to pass any more of
the increases on to employees than they had to," he said.

Nationally, many groups are trying to address the issue of rising health
insurance costs, promoting creation of a national health care system. Many
employers and insurers are emphasizing preventive care such as well-child
checkups and flu shots and health and exercise programs.

Other employers hope that by increasing the premiums their employees must pay
while also increasing deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs,
workers will use health care more judiciously and in turn, drive down
companywide health insurance costs.

Meanwhile, however, rising premiums mean growing numbers of people simply cannot
afford health insurance, according to the report by Families USA.

The report shows 29.5 percent of Utah's residents younger than 65 are uninsured,
up from 28.1 percent four years ago.


-----

To see more of The Salt Lake Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.sltrib.com.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: ST-HEALTH-INSURE-20040930

JOURNAL-CODE: ST

               Copyright 2004 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                      Copyright 2004 The Salt Lake Tribune


                              282 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 19, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: Tester Sponsors Bill to Stabilize Health Insurance Rates

LENGTH: 433  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: Office of the Senator Jon Tester has issued the following news
release:
 U.S. Senator Jon Tester is taking steps to improve the current health care
system by helping to stabilize rates on the health insurance Marketplace despite
ongoing attempts by leaders in Congress to rip health care away from tens of
thousands of Montanans.


Tester today sponsored the Individual Health Insurance Marketplace Improvement
Act to create a new permanent reinsurance program to help cover the claims of
the sickest enrollees in the Marketplace. Reinsurance provides insurance
companies with financial support to help cover costs incurred by particularly
expensive enrollees.
Tester's bill helps offset the costs to cover patients whose medical claims are
unexpectedly expensive-including treatments of long-term or terminal diseases.

"Rather than rip access to health care away from thousands of Montanans or pass
a bill drafted in secret that doesn't address the rising cost of health care, we
should be passing commonsense solutions that will improve the current health
care system," Tester said. "By helping to cover the costs of the sickest
Americans, we can stabilize rates on the insurance marketplace, increase
certainty for insurers, and curb growing of out-of-pocket costs for Montanans."

Tester's bill will require the federal government to pay insurers 80 percent of
each enrollees' insurance claims that exceed $50,000 annually. In 2021, that
threshold will increase to $100,000 annually.
Tester last week blasted the latest Senate health care proposal, which fails to
address the rising cost of health care. Tester is the only member of Montana's
Congressional delegation who has held in-person health care town halls during
Congress' attempt to upend the health care system.
Tester is sponsoring multiple bills to improve the current health care
system-including the SPIKE Act, which will lower prescription drug costs for
Montanans.
Health insurers are facing increased uncertainty as they prepare to finalize
2018 rates for the health insurance Marketplace. The U.S. House of
Representatives is suing to end critical cost-sharing reduction payments that
help cover the cost of copays and deductibles, and the Trump Administration has
refused to commit to continuing these payments. Tester is sponsoring legislation
to ensure the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services stabilizes health
insurance markets by making cost-sharing reduction payments.
Tester is also urging health insurers and the Montana Insurance Commissioner to
shed more light on 2018 health insurance costs.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Cost worries as Universal Health Insurance gets the green light

BYLINE: Fionnan Sheahan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 624 words


THE cost of bringing in the radical reform of the health service will be known
early next year, the Irish Independent has learnt.

The Government has given the go-ahead for the process of implementing Universal
Health Insurance (UHI) to proceed.

But Health Minister Dr James Reilly's proposals have come under fire for lacking
in detail on how it will be funded.

Universal Health Insurance will end the two-tier health system and give a basic
level of insurance to everybody, subsidised by the State.

The system is expected to be introduced within five years.

The proposal has attracted criticism from within the Government itself for
lacking detail on the costs.

Guarantee The minister is setting up a commission which will set out the costs
of implementing UHI by the start of next year.

Dr Reilly has now inserted a guarantee in his plan that the costs will "not
exceed" the spending on the existing twotier system.

Finance Minister Michael Noonan and Public Spending Minister Brendan Howlin and
their officials have expressed serious concerns about the cost of UHI and the
financial implications for the State.

In response to the criticism, Dr Reilly has inserted a cap on spending linked to
national expenditure.

"The Government is determined that total spending by the State on healthcare in
Ireland under a single-tier UHI system should not exceed the total spending
under the twotier system, which it replaces. "This approach will allow for cost
-effective, additional investment in health services, in line with increases
that are consistent with our constitutional and legal obligations under the
Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance (the Fiscal Compact) and the
Stability and Growth Pact," the new document says.

The proposals for the radical reform of the health service will be published
today after being cleared by the Cabinet yesterday. The reform will have massive
implications for the two million people who hold private health insurance cover.
Insurance companies will be specifically banned from offering quicker access to
hospitals for standard treatments - though they will still be able to offer
other benefits such as private rooms.

The core principle of UHI is healthcare being equally available to each member
of society and treatment based solely on medical need, not income.

Everyone will have cover from a private health insurance company.

Those who can''t afford the premium will have it paid for fully or be heavily
subsidised by the State.

Dr Reilly has estimated that 40pc of the population, who currently hold medical
cards, will get their health insurance paid in full, with another 30pc getting a
heavy subsidy.

The minister will also have to show hospitals can be run and health services can
be delivered at a lower cost to the taxpayer for his reform of the system to go
ahead in five years' time.

The preparations for UHI will proceed with a view to getting the health service
to operate more efficiently.

HEALTH SERVICE REFORM EXPLAINED UHI: Universal Health Insurance is essentially
health insurance for all. It''s compulsory and those who can''t afford it get
the cost covered or subsidised by the State.

Basket: The basket is the services covered for free under UHI. It''s expected to
include GP care, acute care in hospital and mental health.

MFTP: Money Follows The Patient is a way of paying hospitals for the number of
patients they treat. Rather than paying a block grant, hospitals will get money
based on their output.

NPO: The National Pricing Office will set the prices to be paid to hospitals for
procedures and subsequently charged to health insurance firms.

HC: The Healthcare Commission will figure out how much UHI will cost and how
many people will get the various levels of subsidy to cover the cost.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

SECTION: Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 603 words


We must control health costs

According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, health insurance premiums in the past
decade have continued to rise much faster than wages and overall inflation. The
rising cost means health insurance is increasingly unaffordable for many
Americans.

The main drivers are out-of-control drug costs, hospitals, doctors, and highly
paid specialists.

Drugs in America are considerably higher than other countries. Also, other
countries have been able to negotiate medical and drug costs down.

High-cost procedures and medical equipment costs continue to soar.

The health care legislation barely touches inflated medical costs. There seems
to be very little interest in negotiating. They still insist insurance companies
are the blame for everything.

The American people are fast becoming bankrupt because of out-of-control
inflated medical costs. Get these costs down and insurance premiums will go
down.

How can we ever have affordable health insurance and fix health care with
medical costs going out of sight? Also, giving money away paying questionable
claims and crooks stealing us blind through fraud of over $200 billion a year.

Jerry Autry, Burgaw

Know your broccoli levels?

The first lady's mission to reduce childhood obesity is a good program. But
although you can show people the path to good health, you can't make them follow
you. Her task will only succeed if we make a serious effort to follow her.

Maybe if our Honorables put some teeth, not entitlement, into prevention will
she stand a better chance of success.

Forcing health care on the people is easy. You require mandatory health care
insurance and expropriate some people's property ($) and redistribute to those
who can't afford it . ... But forcing good health habits on people seems to be
an intrusion into personal liberty.

Imagine if the health care bill mandated that all people with a body mass index
over a certain limit and who were physically capable were required to
participate in a government-dictated exercise program such as supervised walking
at least 5 miles three days a week.

Attendance would be taken and performance monitored. Slackers would be suitably
punished by being put on "No Buy" lists distributed to fast-food joints.

Testing for minimum body broccoli levels would be required. Sounds far-fetched,
yes, but if we really want to reduce the deficit and increase overall health,
something must be done. What do you say Congress, do you have what it takes to
make us healthy? We won't do it by ourselves.

Charlie Besancon, Oak Island

Don't shoot the messenger

The continuing StarNews investigation of ABC abuses has upset the complacency of
some. If recent comments in letters are the sincere expressions of readers and
not echoes from the Billy Williams clique, they demonstrate a breathtaking
naivete.

Apparently it does not occur to these readers that a $30,000,000 contribution to
local entities might have been $40,000,000 or more under responsible, prudent
management. And this complacency appears to extend to county officials. Bobby
Greer has never stopped voicing support for Mr. Williams. And in his last
appearance before the ABC Board upon his retirement, Mr. Williams was praised by
County Manager Bruce Shell and others for his many years of service,
conveniently ignoring the real reason for his forced retirement.

Only after the prodding by outraged vocal citizens as a result of StarNews
reporting did the county finally move to correct the situation. I wonder if the
results of the up-coming county forensic audit of the ABC will be as thorough as
StarNews reporting.

Richard Joblonicky, Wilmington

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                  May 27, 2017

Health insurance: Families braced for hikes

BYLINE: Emma Kennedy

LENGTH: 1725 words



HIGHLIGHT: With insurance prices set to claim further casualties next month,
consumers should check that their cover is meeting their needs - and doing so at
a fair price


Families are facing yet another round of health insurance price hikes next
month, and there's little sign of an improvement in market conditions any time
soon.

Skyrocketing prices in the motor insurance sector might have received more
attention, but health insurance customers have also had to swallow double-digit
price increases. The latest figures from the Central Statistics Office indicate
that health insurance costs rose by 10.1 per cent in the year to the end of
April, a big jump considering many plans already cost north of [#x20ac]1,000 per
year.

From June 12, Irish Life Health will increase its prices by an average of 3.2
per cent. Earlier this month, its rival VHI Healthcare increased premiums on 52
of its plans. And, on April 1, Laya Healthcare introduced premium increases,
ranging from 3.6 per cent to 19.2 per cent, on more than 120 plans.

Health insurance broker Dermot Goode, of Totalhealthcover.ie, said consumers
needed to be "wary of the spin put on these increases" by insurers.

"Insurers will talk about averages but you need to look at the direct impact on
your individual cover. In many cases, you could find this to be double the
average figure," Goode said.

"Secondly, you need to be careful of the cumulative effect of the increases from
one renewal to another. For example, most insurers have had at least two
increases in the past 12 months and when you look at the cumulative effect, the
actual increase in many cases is up to 10 per cent, depending on the plan you
have."

Some of the price pressure in the health insurance market can be attributed to
medical inflation, driven by new medical treatments, drugs and technologies.
However, insurers have repeatedly blamed government policy for price hikes.

"The practice of public hospitals charging those with health insurance a higher
private rate is still having a huge impact," Goode said.

"According to the insurers, this has cost the industry about [#x20ac]200 million
over the past 12 months and probably accounts for half of all price increases
being put through at present."

He also pointed to the government's decision to increase the health insurance
levy by 10 per cent last year as another driver of the recent spate of price
increases by health insurers. "As predicted, all insurers have moved to pass
this onto consumers immediately and any future increase will lead to further
rate hikes," Goode said.

Despite the double-digit price hikes, the Department of Health describes the
Irish health insurance market as "highly competitive", little comfort for the
families paying out an arm and a leg for cover.

"The cost of private health insurance is influenced by a number of factors such
as the number of persons in the market, the age profile of those holding private
health insurance and ongoing medical innovations. Each of these are contributors
to the cost of care, the cost of claims and therefore the cost of premiums
payable," a spokeswoman for the Department of Health said.

It is now just over two years since the government introduced new rules in a bid
to improve the demographics of the market, and encourage younger customers to
buy health insurance.

This major shift in the market, known as lifetime community rating, introduced a
premium loading for those over 34 when they first purchase health insurance.

"Encouraging more people to join the market at younger ages helps spread the
costs of older and less healthy people across the market, helping to support
affordable premiums for all," the Department of Health spokeswoman said.

While the 2015 regulations have not halted rising prices, they have nudged more
people to take out private cover.

Figures from the Health Insurance Authority (HIA) point to a net increase of
more than 152,000 in the total number of insured persons between January 2015
and January 2017, evidence that lifetime community rating has encouraged more
people into the market.

According to a recent statement by the HIA, the increase also reflects the
impact of economic recovery, and a healthier employment market.

One problem, however, is that many of those who entered the market to beat the
loading rule purchased cheap plans, often with limited cover and lots of
exclusions, rendering them close to worthless.

A review of the lifetime community rating regulations was carried out by the HIA
recently, with the Department of Health currently considering the
recommendations contained in the HIA's report.

Health insurance is just one area under consideration as part of a broader
review of healthcare policy, as the government aims to make good on its
programme for government commitment to deliver a ten-year healthcare roadmap
with cross-party consensus.

A committee, established last June, is due to submit its final report to the
Department of Health in the coming days.

Beyond policy shifts, another factor at play in the health insurance market in
the last year has been consolidation, with former market players GloHealth and
Aviva Health coming together under the Irish Life Health umbrella.

Typically, consolidation in an industry, and the resultant decline in market
competition, are seen as a negative for consumers.

Switching activity in the market has declined, according to figures from the
Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (CCPC). Its research, carried out
at the end of 2016, found that 6 per cent of consumers had switched their health
insurance in the previous 12 months, down from 9 per cent in 2015 and 2014.

Although the number switching is lower than previous years, a spokeswoman for
the CCPC said consumers switching health insurance provider saw an average
annual saving of [#x20ac]236.

According to Goode, a significant number of health insurance customers continue
to pay over the odds for their cover.

"Four out of five customers are still overpaying and two out of five are
significantly overpaying," he said.

"A rule of thumb is that if you're on the same plan for two years or more,
you're likely to be overpaying. The longer you're on the same plan, the higher
the potential savings and in many cases, you don't need to switch insurer to
achieve this."

Last year, on the back of a thematic inspection of the renewal process of health
insurers, the Central Bank released a statement saying it wanted health insurers
to do more to inform consumers of their options.

According to the Central Bank, health insurers' renewal notices did not provide
sufficient information to consumers on the importance of contacting their
insurer to ensure that they were being offered the most suitable policy to meet
their needs. The Central Bank also flagged concerns about a lack of explanation
by providers of auto-renewals.

"Consumers were alerted to the auto-renewal process operated by all of the
health insurance providers; this being that if consumers fail to contact their
provider, then their existing health insurance policy will be auto-renewed for a
further period of 12 months," a Central Bank spokeswoman said.

Consumers in the health insurance market have faced significant price hikes in
the past year, and there's more to come. But there are steps that consumers can
take to regain some control.

The first step is an obvious, but often-ignored one: review your health
insurance cover when you receive your renewal notice.

"You could potentially save money by opting for a cheaper corporate plan that
offers similar benefits, putting your children on a different plan to yourself,
getting quotes from different providers and paying an excess," a spokeswoman for
the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission said.

Another option, but one to be very careful about, is downgrading your cover to
save money. "If you do decide to downgrade, you need to consider whether the
savings are worth any loss in cover and think about whether a lower level of
cover suits your needs. You should also be aware that if you decide to upgrade
your cover in the future, waiting periods of up to a maximum of five years can
apply, depending on your age," the CCPC spokeswoman said.

Health insurance broker Dermot Goode, of Totalhealthcover.ie, said a key mistake
many consumers made was asking insurers to suggest a plan.

"Never phone the insurers and ask for their recommendation," Goode said. "Tell
them you want them to recommend the closest lower-cost equivalent to what you
have in place already, and insist they look across all their plans for you.
Whatever they suggest, have them explain to you exactly how it compares to the
existing plan, in terms of what you are losing and gaining."

Irish Life Health: "Health insurance costs should reflect just the cost of
providing medical treatment for our customers. However, in recent years the
costs have increased due to government policy decisions, with the most
significant policy change impacting health insurance customers' premiums being
the public hospital bed legislation introduced in 2014. The Minister for Health
needs to intervene immediately and address the key issues driving up costs. The
public hospital bed legislation has resulted in a double taxation of health
insurance customers, as they have already paid for public hospital services
through their taxes."

Laya Healthcare: "The public beds re-designation charge, introduced in 2014, has
resulted in those with health insurance being charged up to ten times the cost
of a hospital bed compared with a public patient, while receiving the exact same
treatment. Research by Insurance Ireland shows that 65 per cent of people are
unaware they are waiving their right to public treatment by signing the form. To
address double-digit cost of claim increases from public hospitals and help
bring about price stability in the market, we have asked the government to
review as a matter of urgency the public beds re-designation charge and the
manner in which patient waiver forms are being distributed and communicated in
hospitals."

VHI Healthcare: "The primary challenge for VHI is that the organisation has the
largest proportion of older and sicker customers in the market. This leads to an
increased volume of claims which can have an impact on costs. We welcome the
changes made to the risk equalisation scheme by the government last year, but to
have a market that is sustainable and fair for the medium term, more is
required. The costs of older and sicker people need to be balanced more fairly
across the market."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                           October 21, 2004 Thursday
                                 South* Edition

Money expected to be tight next year;
Finance director's guidelines show most departments getting 3 percent increases

BYLINE: Tamara Race

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 393 words


The Patriot Ledger

There shouldn't be any layoffs in the coming fiscal year, but don't look for any
new personnel or services.

Plymouth is facing its fourth consecutive tight-budget year. Although the town's
finance director, Bruce Miller, is anticipating an increase of 8 percent, or
about $6 million, in the municipal budget, his preliminary fiscal 2006 budget
guidelines allow most department budgets to grow by just 3 percent.

Skyrocketing pension and health insurance costs are driving up the bottom-line
figure, Miller said.

He expects pension and health insurance costs to rise by 11 to 13 percent for
the second consecutive year. Those increases coupled with rising liability
insurance costs and debt service will cost the town an estimated $3.3 million
next year.

Salary increases will cost the town another $2 million, according to Miller. The
remaining $700,000 of the expected $6 million increase is attributed to rising
operating costs.

Miller has taken pension and health insurance costs for school employees out of
the school budget and created a single pension/health insurance line item for
the entire town. That reduces the overall school budget figure by about $10
million.

Under Miller's guidelines, the school department would have a budget of about
$62 million, an increase of $1.3 million. Both figures reflect the moving of the
allocation for pensions and health insurance.

The overall town budget is expected to be about $136 million. That includes the
allocations for the school department, debt and capital costs, and various
revolving funds.

Miller recommends raising $77.4 million by taxation and using $11.7 million from
local receipts to fund next year's budget. He also is counting on $24.4 million
in state aid, $3 million in free cash, $1.5 million in new-growth revenue, and
$1.8 million from transfers and other funding sources.

"The preliminary budget does not restore services or workers laid off
previously," Miller said. "That's a policy decision. If selectmen want to add
policemen, firefighters, or increase other department budgets, we will have to
adjust the budget to pay for it."

Miller has asked town departments to submit budget requests that based on an
assumption that services will be kept at current levels. Any additional money
requests will be reviewed separately, he said. Tamara Race can be reached at
trace@ledger.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Patriot Ledger


                              287 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

Coleman, Rybak: The vitality of our cities depends on health-care reform

BYLINE: By Chris Coleman and R.T. Rybak

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 629 words


Our nation's broken health insurance system is failing to protect the needs of
our families and threatens the vitality of our cities. As mayors of the two
largest cities in Minnesota, we know that nothing puts a greater strain on the
economic and fiscal health of our cities than the soaring cost of health care.
Congress must act quickly to reform our country's broken health insurance
system.

Even families with health insurance struggle to make ends meet. Every day, we
hear about this hardship as wages lag further behind the rising cost of health
care. Insurance comes up short, leaving families struggling to pay for their
child's asthma inhaler or watching their grandparents and parents deplete
retirement savings to pay for needed treatment.

We pay ever-increasing monthly premiums for health insurance that covers less
and less. Sixty-two percent of bankruptcies are due to medical emergencies; 60
percent of these people had health insurance. Clearly, business as usual is not
protecting our families.

Though there are modest signs of an upturn in the economy, job growth is still
negative. Businesses cite the staggering costs of health care insurance as a
significant roadblock to growth. In Minnesota from 2000 to 2007, the price of
the average worker's share of family coverage rose by 66 percent, and the price
of the average employer's share of the premium rose by 77 percent. Providing
competitive wages and benefits, or job training and innovation, have
increasingly become either/or decisions. The cost of reliable health insurance
is holding back economic growth.

As mayors, we know first-hand how skyrocketing costs of health care are weighing
down state and local government budgets. Health care costs have gone up $11
million in St. Paul, doubling in six years. Today the City of Minneapolis spends
$48 million on health care, compared with $220 million on wages and salaries. If
the current growth rate of health care costs continues, in 15 years Minneapolis
will spend as much on health care as on wages.

The impact is felt throughout the community, which you've experienced with
reduced park services, shorter library hours, and in higher property taxes. Gov.
Tim Pawlenty has responded by simply cutting thousands of Minnesotans off of
health care. That hasn't solved and won't solve the problem. Not only are tens
of thousands of Minnesotans in dire need of health care kicked to the street;
those costs just get shifted to local government budgets and your insurance
premiums.

President Obama's plan to fix our broken health insurance system cannot come a
moment too soon. Knowing that should you be laid off, you and your family will
have health insurance is critical to the stability of families' health and
well-being. A public health care option for all Americans would help to ensure
that families who can't afford the private market have a back-up alternative for
coverage. Competition and transparency provided by the president's plan will
hold insurance companies accountable and bring down costs, giving families and
businesses room to breathe. Families can spend less time and energy worrying
about bills, and more time caring for their children and helping them with their
homework. Businesses can focus their profits on employee retention, staff
development and innovation. Local governments will be able to re-direct funding
to libraries, public safety and transit.

The vitality of our cities, the growth of our economy and the security of our
families depend on health care that is affordable and accessible for everyone.
At this critical moment, we need our members of Congress to listen to the cry
for reform and bring real change to a system that's broken.

Chris Coleman is the mayor of St. Paul. R.T. Rybak is the mayor of Minneapolis.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 5, 2006 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Cost-shifting

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 556 words


The Regional Commerce and Growth Association, the Missouri Chamber of Commerce
and Associated Industries of Missouri all approved last year when Gov. Matt
Blunt and the Legislature cut more than 100,000 people from the state Medicaid
rolls.

Now they're paying the price. More precisely, we're all paying the price,
whether we buy our own insurance or get it through our employers. You're paying
in the form of higher premiums if you buy your own insurance. You're paying with
higher co-payments and deductibles -- and maybe reduced coverage as well -- if
you get insurance through your job. That's because over the last five years, as
premiums increased, more companies have shifted more of their costs onto their
workers. Some employers are paying more, too.

Two factors are driving those higher premiums: the growing number of uninsured
Americans -- like the more than 100,000 people who lost Medicaid in Missouri
last year -- and the difference between what it costs hospitals to treat
Medicare and Medicaid patients and what federal and state governments reimburse
them for that care.

The idea of overcharging you to pay for the care of others is called a cost-
shift. It has been going on for decades. When health insurance premiums were
relatively low, few complained. Hospitals justified cost-shifting as a way to
provide health care to the poor and the old, which they're obligated to do by
federal law, whether or not those patients can pay.

You could think of cost-shifting as a tax in all but name, collected by
hospitals. And because it's a hidden tax, most people don't realize they are
paying it.

But now that health insurance premiums are high, most businesses pay much more
attention to cost-shifting. A number of newly released studies quantify just how
large the cost shift is. The numbers are staggering: at least $45 billion
nationwide.

An Emory University researcher estimated recently that cost-shifting adds at
least 8.5 percent to health insurance premiums. Since the average annual premium
for family coverage last year was $10,880, that means the national "cost
-shifting tax" added $924.

But that's just an average. The actual size of the cost shift varies by state,
based on the number of people who lack health insurance and the rates paid by
Medicaid, which are set by state government.

Another factor is how federal Medicare rates compare with hospitals' actual
costs. Recent studies found the combined cost shift in California and Washington
state was more than $5.2 billion in 2005. What's more, it varies over time as
the number of uninsured and the rates paid by Medicare and Medicaid change.
Research published in January concluded that cost-shifting added as much as 35
percent to the cost of private insurance during the early 1990s, and as little
as 8.5 percent later that decade. Similar studies conducted in a number of
states, including Illinois, also document substantial cost shifts.

The more that cost-shifting adds to the cost of health insurance, the fewer
small- and medium-size companies will be willing or able to offer health
insurance to their workers. The fewer companies that offer health insurance, the
greater the number of uninsured, and the larger the cost shift.

Thanks to Gov. Blunt and our short-sighted Legislature, we're footing the bill
for a bigger cost shift. That's the bottom line.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  OUR VIEW  |  HEALTH CARE OPINION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              289 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     September 10, 2004 Friday Home Edition

Workplace health insurance costs leap 11.2%

BYLINE: ANDY MILLER

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: News; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 759 words


The cost of employer-sponsored health insurance rose 11.2 percent in 2004 ---
the fourth straight year of double-digit growth, according to a survey released
Thursday.

The premium increase, though less than the 13.9 percent jump of 2003, was still
about five times the rate of inflation and wage growth, said the survey by the
Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and Educational Trust.

And there's no end in sight, the survey sponsors said.

The rise in health costs is "a persistent and long-term problem that has no
simple fixes," said Mary Pittman, president of the trust. "There's an elephant
in the middle of the room, and we cannot afford any longer to ignore it."

The increase in consumers' out-of-pocket health costs is driving voter concern
about health care in the presidential election, said Drew Altman, Kaiser
Foundation president.

The survey results were released a week after government officials announced a
17.4 percent increase, to $78.20 a month, in Medicare premiums that pay for
treatment by doctors. It was the largest increase in premiums since the 1965
start-up of the federal Medicare program, which covers more than 40 million
elderly or disabled Americans.

The survey results also come as the fall "open enrollment" period for benefits
looms, when workers at many companies receive their 2005 health insurance
information and the corresponding sticker price.

"Health insurance is increasingly unaffordable, especially for small employers,"
Altman said.

Southeast Sealing Inc. in Conyers, with 30 employees, is still offering
insurance, but the cost is taking a huge bite out of the bottom line, said
company President Mike Sullivan. The company, which installs coatings on
concrete floors, absorbed a 25 percent increase in its health insurance costs
this year.

"Health care costs are our No. 1 issue," Sullivan said. The company has
increased co-payments for doctor visits, among other out-of-pocket costs to
employees.

"There's absolutely no way we can sustain these kinds of increases," Sullivan
said. The company competes against businesses that don't offer benefits, he
said.

Employee Ronda Depkin, a contract administrator, uses the company insurance for
herself, her husband and one child.

"I have to have it. I have a 4-year-old," said Depkin, who also said she's
grateful for the company's efforts to provide coverage.

Her weekly insurance premium recently rose $41 a week.

"I got a raise in March, but my entire raise was eaten up with the health
insurance increase," she said.

Uninsured growing

Ballooning premiums have helped fuel the rise in the number of Americans without
health insurance. The uninsured figure climbed 1.4 million last year to a record
45 million Americans, the U.S. Census Bureau reported.

Georgia, like other states, is cutting back on its public health insurance
programs such as Medicaid, which likely will expand the ranks of the uninsured.

Several factors have contributed to the growth in health care costs, including
the rising price and use of hospital services and prescription drugs, and the
loosening of managed care restrictions for patients to receive medical services,
said Gary Claxton, a Kaiser Foundation vice president.

The benefits survey of about 3,000 employers found that 61 percent of workers
received health insurance coverage from their employer in 2004, down from 65
percent in 2001. At least 5 million fewer jobs are providing health insurance
than in 2001, the report said.

A likely factor is a dip in the percentage of employers with fewer than 200
workers who offer health benefits.

Outpacing inflation

Premiums for family coverage have accelerated by 59 percent since 2001. During
that time, inflation grew 9.7 percent and wages rose 12.3 percent. Employee
contributions increased 57 percent for single coverage and 49 percent for family
coverage. Families are paying $1,000 more in premiums for family coverage than
they paid in 2000, the Kaiser Foundation's Altman said.

Health insurance for family coverage now costs about $10,000 a year.

"It's increasingly hard for low-wage workers to find access to family coverage
through their work," Claxton said.

Next year's cost outlook appears gloomy as well. A separate survey by Mercer
Human Resource Consulting said employers are predicting an average increase of
9.6 percent in premium costs.

"Employers are frustrated that the double-digit trends are persisting," said
David Foster, a benefits expert for Mercer in Atlanta.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Sullivan (front), president of Southeast Sealant, says that
insuring his 30 workers takes a huge bite out of his bottom line. At right is
contract administrator Ronda Depkin. / CURTIS COMPTON / Staff; Graphic: PREMIUM
GROWTH
Over the past six years, health insurance premiums have grown at a much faster
rate than workers, earnings, according to a survey released Thursday.
Graph depicts the rise in insurance premiums for workers as compared to workers'
earnings and the overall inflation rate from 1999 to 2004.
Sources: the Kaiser Family Foundation; Health Research and Educational Trust
/ Associated Press

                Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              290 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

          October 1, 2000, Sunday, Home Edition Memo: Series featuring
                 nominees in the race for President Next Door.

The president next door;
 Week 4: Candidates on health care

BYLINE: Staff

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: @issue; Pg. 3G

LENGTH: 482 words

And then there were six . . .

Almost 2,700 votes were cast in this week's balloting for The President Next
Door, our combination civics lesson and contest. That represents a 240 percent
increase over the first week of balloting, which may be attributable to last
week's topic, abortion. As the rules dictate, the candidate with the least
number of votes was dropped from this week's ballot.

The remaining candidates were asked to respond to this question:

More than 40 million Americans, many of them children of working parents, are
without health insurance even in the most robust economy in living memory.  The
cost of prescription drugs is rising much faster than inflation, in some cases
putting serious financial pressure on senior citizens with fixed incomes. Those
problems raise a fundamental question: Should access to decent health care be
considered a basic right in a modern society? If so, how can that need best be
met? Can the free-enterprise system be encouraged to provide basic health care,
or must government play a bigger role, perhaps by providing universal care as
Canada does?

Pick your candidate online at ajc.com/@issue or call 404-222-2068.
Voting ends at 5 p.m. Tuesday.

Presidential candidates George W. Bush and Al Gore both want to offer
prescription-drug coverage to senior citizens and make health insurance
available to the 44 million Americans now uninsured, but they suggest very
different means to those ends.

GORE
Vice President Al Gore would expand the Clinton administration's Children's
Health Insurance Program, which is administered by the states, making families
with incomes up to 250 percent of the federal poverty level eligible for
government-paid insurance coverage. He would also offer small businesses a tax
credit of 25 percent of the cost of health-care insurance for each covered
employee.

Gore would provide prescription drug coverage to senior citizens through the
existing Medicare program, with the federal government paying 50 percent of the
cost of drugs up to $ 5,000 annually, with special catastrophic coverage
available if costs exceed that amount.

BUSH
Texas Gov. George W. Bush would offer low-income working families a means-
tested tax credit of as much as $ 2,000 to defray the cost of purchasing health
insurance. Elsewhere, however, the Bush campaign acknowledges that the
per-family cost of health insurance for a small business is $ 4,300, while the
per-family cost to a Fortune 500 company is $ 3,521.

Bush would guarantee all senior citizens the same basic Medicare coverage now
available, but would allow them to enhance that by buying government- subsidized
private coverage for pharmaceutical drugs. According to the Bush campaign,
"Every senior with an income less than $ 11,300 --- $ 15,200 for a couple ---
will have the entire cost of their prescription drugs covered."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic
Illustration of the home of "the president next door," a white house sandwiched
in between two other houses. / VERNON CARNE / Staff
 Graphic
Last week's results
............... Vote
............... total.. Percentage
Randy Singer......852....31.6
Joe Schulman......475....17.6
Sam Zamarripa... 347....12.9
Jim Hughes........286....10.6
Joanne Clendenin.. 274....10.1
Matt Soerens......254... 9.4
Hunt Brown*..... 207... 7.7

  *eliminated

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              291 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                          December 22, 1993 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

SOME GOOD ADVICE FROM HOSPITALS

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Leaders; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 814 words


THE quickest, least politically risky way for Senator Richardson to ease the
pressure on the public hospitals is to follow both the advice of the public
hospitals and the example of Victoria and make the public system more efficient.

But reform of the private health insurance system certainly should come soon
after that.

The Australian Hospital Association, which represents the public hospitals,
wants the Federal Government to pay the public hospitals directly using the
case-mix funding system now in place in Victoria.

That would cut out the complication of the States' grants (currently Canberra
pays the State Governments to treat Medicare patients in their public
hospitals). It would also force the public hospitals to become more efficient

That's because case-mix funding pays hospitals for what they actually do(they
are paid set amounts for each heart-attack patient, for each maternity case and
so on). Hospitals therefore have a strong incentive to increase their
throughput. In Victoria, the Health Department claims to have cut waiting lists
for surgery by 26 per cent.

Moreover, by setting the case-mix payments according to the cost of treatment in
the most efficient hospitals, the Government can force the less efficient
hospitals to cut their costs.

Figures collected by the OECD show Australian public hospitals have far higher
staffing levels than similar hospitals in the UK, New Zealand and Germany.

The experience in Victoria confirms that there are major efficiency gains to be
made.

Why reform health insurance too? Because in the medium term a more efficient
public hospital system with shorter waiting lists would entice even more people
out of private health insurance.

The solution is to make private health insurance more attractive - by making
treatment as a public patient more expensive for people on above-average
incomes, and by making private insurance more cost-effective.

Senator Richardson is right, there should be a higher Medicare levy for those
people on above-average incomes that do not take out private health insurance.

Private health insurance should also be restructured to encourage the health
funds to exercise control over costs.

As the system is now arranged, the health funds have too little incentive to try
to control costs.

Senator Richardson's proposed reforms of private health insurance would both
impose a degree of fee restraint and eliminate the problem of unexpected
out-of-pocket costs.

However, they seem unnecessarily restrictive. Under the senator's proposal,
health funds would not be permitted to pay a benefit for hospital treatment
except where the doctors and hospital provided a single bill on the basis of a
pre-determined case-mix schedule.

That, as Senator Richardson has noted, would restrict the right of
"star"specialists to charge very high fees.

It might have to come to that. But it would be better if patients and doctors
were given more choice - if that could be done without sacrificing cost control.

Senator Richardson's proposed private health insurance could become the basic
form of private cover. Indeed, it could be made more cost-effective by allowing
the funds to market "preferred provider" schemes.

Under these schemes, special rates are negotiated between the funds and
individual hospitals. Fund members can then pay lower premiums if they agree to
use the hospitals nominated by their fund.

The potential advantages of preferred provider arrangements are that they give
the funds both more bargaining power over the hospitals and doctors and more
control over the total quantity of services provided (because they control the
number of hospital beds available to their preferred-provider patients). That
second point is very important. The great strength of case-mix funding - that it
encourages hospitals to increase their efficiency and throughput - is also a
potential weakness. Hospitals make more money by increasing the number of
admissions. And because the payments are based on the average cost of treating
specific illnesses, it becomes very profitable to admit people who require
relatively little treatment.

The Government should also encourage the development of more "managed
care"schemes, which would be more cost-effective still.

If the most popular forms of private health insurance imposed adequate cost
control on the doctors, the Government could afford to allow a little more
freedom at the edges. It could allow the funds to offer more traditional forms
of cover for those patients who wanted more choice over the selection of their
doctors.

Of course there would have to be a substantial, uninsurable gap. And the degree
of cross-subsidy by ordinary policy-holders would be strictly limited. It would
therefore be quite expensive. However, it would give the public and medical
profession more choice than Senator Richardson's preferred scheme, and it might
be politically more saleable.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1993 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                     October 18, 2005 Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Let cities and towns buy into state's health insurance pool

BYLINE: James B. Leary

SECTION: COMMENTARY; AS I SEE IT; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 753 words


Skyrocketing health insurance costs are negatively impacting organizations of
all types, from private business to governmental entities. Perhaps nowhere is
the impact as acute or as obvious as in the case of municipal governments.
Rapidly escalating health insurance costs have put cities and towns across the
commonwealth in the untenable position of either cutting municipal services or
increasing already high property taxes.

A recent Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation report reveals that the cost of
health coverage to municipal employees has skyrocketed by an average of 63
percent from 2001 to 2005. Though health insurance costs have increased in
virtually all sectors, the municipal increase is especially drastic: The
municipal health insurance growth rate was nearly double the rate of increase
for health coverage of state government employees over the same period.

Continued growth at this rate is simply unsustainable. Health insurance cost
increases far exceed the growth rate in municipal revenues. As a result, city
and town policy makers must make cuts elsewhere in their already strained
budgets in order to simply maintain the status quo in health insurance.
Reductions in staff levels in critical departments and cutbacks in basic
services such as street and sidewalk repair are the inevitable result.

A variety of proposals has been suggested in order to address this challenge,
but these ideas have a mixed chance of success at best. Notable among these is
the idea of removing health insurance completely from the collective bargaining
process and allowing municipal governments to unilaterally decide how to share
premium costs between employer and employee. This proposal has been met with
vigorous opposition from employee unions, who argue that concessions which they
received on the issue of premium splits were based upon concessions that they
made in other areas, such as wages or work rules.

As we debate this issue in the Legislature, I will advocate for an idea that
recognizes the concerns of both sides and has the potential to yield greater
savings than other proposals. I believe that we should allow municipalities to
purchase into the same health insurance plans that provide coverage for state
employees, and to do so as part of the same insurance pool as the state.
Currently municipalities may do so as separate, individual pools but no
community has ever done so because it would not yield significant savings. As
part of the larger state employee pool, on the other hand, the savings could be
enormous.

This idea can be adopted in either of two ways, both of which may result in
significant savings, while at the same time preserving the basic framework of
collective bargaining. The first would be to allow the municipality and the
union to agree through collective bargaining to enter into the state system.

The union would agree to do so under all the same terms and conditions as state
employees, including the premium share paid by state employees. The alternative
would be for the municipality and unions to agree to join the state pool while
still negotiating how to share the costs of the premium between employee and
employer. The municipality would forward full payment of the premium to the
state and would collect the employee's share directly from him or her.

In either case, the savings could be considerable. In the two municipalities
that I representWorcester and West Boylstonadoption of this plan could
immediately have a positive impact on their budgets. The cost of comparable
state health insurance plans is approximately 75 percent to 80 percent of the
cost in either of these municipalities. As a result, adoption of this plan could
yield significant savings for both communities, while still providing their
employees with comprehensive and high-quality coverage. It is very likely that
this dynamic could be repeated in communities of all sizes throughout
Massachusetts. The money saved could alleviate the tax burden on homeowners and
enable communities to dedicate much needed funds to critical services such as
schools, roads and public safety.

The time has come to grapple with the developing municipal health insurance
crisis. Active involvement on the state level, by opening up our state health
plans to municipal employees, will serve everyone wellmunicipal leaders,
municipal employees and, most important, the residents and taxpayers of our
communities.

State Rep. James B. Leary represents the 14th Worcester District.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              293 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday

Bloomington cutting other spending in 2013 to pay rising health insurance costs

BYLINE: Kasey Husk, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1041 words


July 24--The effect of rising health insurance costs on the city's 2013 budget
was the chief topic of discussion Monday as the Bloomington City Council held
its first night of budget hearings.

Despite innovation efforts that will save the city about $1.2 million next year,
the city's Category I expenses -- personnel costs -- have risen about 5.6
percent, largely because of health insurance costs. Cuts in Categories II, III
and IV -- supplies, services and capital improvement -- mean, however, that the
city's total budget request is up 1.44 percent, or about $877,000, from 2012.

Budget hearings are planned at 6 p.m. every day this week through Thursday at
City Hall. In the hearings, council members hear presentations from each
department head and ask questions about their budgetary requests.
Representatives from the mayor's office and the human resources, legal,
information and technology service, city council, city clerk and controller
departments or offices spoke Monday.

Discussion of health insurance and compensation made up more than an hour of the
four-hour meeting, as human resources director Daniel Grundmann walked the
council through the reasons behind rising personnel costs. Those costs would
account for almost all the additional funding requested by department heads
speaking throughout the evening, even as some requested funding for fewer
employees than in 2012 thanks to positions being vacated by attrition or the
city's early retirement and separation incentive plans offered this year.

Grundmann estimated that the 29 employees who left or are leaving through the
city's retirement or separation incentive plan, a brainchild of the city's
innovation efforts, will save the city more than $1 million in 2013. Factor in
the money saved in 2012 by some of those employees leaving, and the number rises
to $1.3 million.

About 13 of those 29 positions will not be filled, Grundmann said. He noted that
every vacancy gives the city the flexibility to rethink how it works without
having to lay people off.

Grundmann gave a brief history of the city's change from being a partially
self-insured program to a fully insured program offered through the Indiana
Association of Cities and Towns. The city actually had a budgetary surplus in
its health insurance trust fund until 2010, when a "catastrophic year" for
claims drove up costs by 40 percent and ultimately led to the switch to a fully
insured plan.

Grundmann estimated that the switch will have saved the city a total of at least
$2.8 million from 2011 to the end of 2013.

As of 2013, the city will be budgeting $10,790 per employee for insurance, a
number that jumps dramatically from $6,489 budgeted in 2012. However, Grundmann
notes that costs have not actually jumped as much as they appear, because in the
past three years the city has "repurposed" money from the general fund and used
the city's rainy day reserves to cover the shortfall.

Projecting into the future, Grundmann said he anticipates health insurance costs
continuing to rise at about 12.5 percent per year; revenue is conservatively
anticipated to rise about 2 percent a year on average.

Grundmann also said the city is proposing a one-time $1,000 salary increase for
2013 for all nonunion full-time employees, with half-time employees receiving
$500. That figure accounts for 1.17 to 3.79 percent of eligible employees'
salaries, depending on the recipients' salary, though it will not continue in
2014. Mayor Mark Kruzan has said, however, that he hopes the city can return to
percentage-based wage increases in 2014.

Union employees will be receiving the prenegotiated raises in their contracts: 3
percent for police officers, 3 percent for firefighters and 3.35 percent for
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees members.

The budget, which projects a net deficit of $780,000 for the year, will maintain
reserve funds worth a little more than 20 percent by the end of the year. Kruzan
has said those reserves are healthy, but emphasized the need to maintain them in
case of future economic downturn or unexpected expenses.

Mayoral priorities

Kruzan touched on several highlights of what he called a "surprisingly strong"
budget Monday, focusing on what the city is still investing in despite the tight
economic conditions.

Kruzan said the city will maintain its "ongoing commitment to social services
providers, despite cuts in almost all of our budget lines," by continuing to
provide $250,000 in Jack Hopkins Social Services grant funding. The city will
also set aside an additional $50,000 toward the city council's sidewalk program.

The mayor also hopes to complete 18 projects on the city's Platinum Bike Task
Force list, among them creating additional bike lanes in town and completing the
Allen Street bike boulevard to College Mall Road.

The city will also "retrofit" a roundabout at High Street and Winslow Road to
improve pedestrian safety, as promised during last year's "great roundabout
debate," Kruzan said. The budget also includes funding for a roundabout at 17th
Street and Arlington Road.

Sustainability improvements

Each department head speaking Monday also addressed improvements its employees
are trying to implement in hopes of improving the city's sustainability.

Among the initiatives brought up was the legal department's focus on
communicating more using electronic documents, rather than printing out drafts
of documents to be sent for review, according to corporation counsel Margie
Rice. Her department has also reduced its fuel usage by 25 percent.

Grundmann also said his department will continue to offer incentives to
employees who choose to ride a bike or use public transportation to get to work.

Innovation efforts

The city's information and technology services department will also be taking on
added responsibilities as part of the innovation team's efforts to streamline
the way city government works.

Rick Dietz, director of information and technology services, said his department
will take over management of landline telephones and the management of copiers,
as it already handles printers.

___ (c)2012 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120724-BM-Bloomington-cutting-other-spending-in-2013-to-pay-rising-
health-insurance-costs-0724-20120724

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2012 Herald-Times


                              294 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The Daily Yomiuri

                             June 29, 1991, Sunday

Costs Of Childbirth Rising

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 704 words


In contrast to the birth rate in Japan, which is declining rapidly, the cost of
childbirth continues to rise.

Although some costs such as delivery fees and some types of maternity aid are
covered by health insurance, the coverage rates have been frozen by the
government for six years. This raises the out-of-pocket expenses of pregnant
women.

More and more people are demanding that out-of-pocket childbirth expenses be
reduced, following the lead of some European countries where all costs are
covered by insurance.

No official figures are available on the costs of childbirth in Japan. However,
a survey by AIU Insurance Co. Ltd. conducted in hospitals in Tokyo this year
revealed that a woman hospitalized for one week in a shared room for a normal
delivery, the average cost is 360,000 yen.

The lowest delivery fee was 300,000 yen, and the cost exceeded 500,000 yen at
some hospitals where women were provided with private rooms.

A similar survey conducted in 1989 found the average cost to be 300,000 yen, a
20 percent increase in the last two years. Today's costs are more than 50
percent higher than a decade ago, when a birth was 240,000 yen.

Because pregnancy is not considered an illness, pregnancy fees are not usually
paid by health insurance. Some costs, however, can be covered.

City or town governments pay 50,000 yen to 100,000 yen in maternity aid to those
covered by National Health Insurance. According to the Health and Welfare
Ministry, this aid amounts to 130,000 yen at almost all local governments.

The national government six years ago set the standard for local governmental
grants-in-aid, a third of maternity aid, estimating that local governments were
paying 130,000 yen to each insured pregnant woman. Only a few local governments
pay more.

Employees' Health Insurance that salaried employees hold pay a higher percentage
of delivery fees. Policies pay half a month's salary or 200,000 yen, whichever
is greater. To spouses, insurance pays 200,000 yen. The figure has been fixed
for the last six years.

Health insurance unions, agents of Employees' Health Insurance, can pay
additional coverage. The Health and Welfare Ministry's suggested maximum limit
is 300,000 yen. Of the approximately 1,820 unions, 86 percent pay additional
aid.

The ministry set the maximum limit for delivery fees, based on the average
delivery cost at national hospitals, at 226,000 yen in 1991. Ministry officials
say most delivery fees should be covered by insurance.

However, the managing director of the Japanese Physicians Association for
Maternity Protection, Daisaku Maehara, disagrees. Delivery costs at national
hospitals are low because they are subsidized by the government and should not
be used as a standard, Maehara explained.

Maehara said that consumption taxes drive up childbirth costs at private
hospitals and small clinics. They have to charge more than 300,000 yen.

The financial situation of hospitals is declining along with the birth rate, he
said. Maehara said the Health and Welfare Ministry should raise the portion of
delivery fees paid through Employees' Health Insurance, and also raise the
amount of maternity aid paid through the National Health Insurance to equal the
cost of delivery.

In some European countries, the government bears some of the costs of
childbirth. In France, for example, all maternity costs including pregnancy,
delivery fees, medicine and hospitalization fees are paid by insurance. It is
part of the government's policy to increase the birth rate.

Yumiko Jansson, who gave birth to a child in Sweden, said, "In Northern European
countries and in England and the Netherlands, all pregnancy and delivery costs
are paid for. In those countries, people feel that reproductive health should be
guaranteed by the government."

In Sweden, regular check-up fees and taxi fares are covered by insurance during
pregnancy because pregnant women are considered to be temporarily handicapped.

Meanwhile, the birth rate continues to decline in Japan. Currently, it stands at
1.53 children per fertile woman. It is high time for the Japanese government to
reconsider how the health insurance system regards pregnancy, said Jansson.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1991 The Daily Yomiuri


                              295 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             April 3, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Q&A: health cover

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 268 words


What's Universal Health Insurance again? Health insurance for all, to do away
with the two-tier health service and ensure care is provided on the basis of
need, not income.

When will UHI be introduced? It will begin in 2019. As of now.

Who will be covered? Everyone. It will be compulsory.

What will it cost? Not clear yet. An expert commission is being set up to
establish the costs of the care to be included. When that reports, there''ll be
a better indication.

Will the State foot the bill? A subsidy will be available for those who can''t
afford to pay. Anyone on a medical card will have the full subsidy. Meanwhile,
those on middle incomes who neither have a medical card nor afford health
insurance will get a partial subsidy, and higher earners will pay the cost
themselves.

What''s the cut-off point on these income thresholds? This is not clear at all.

What will people have to pay? No idea. The Government is saying it won''t be
more than the cost of health insurance at the moment, which averages at
(EURO)920 after tax relief is deducted from the bill.

What will it cost the State? Not clear yet, but there is a guarantee inserted in
the plan that it won''t cost more than the taxpayer is already spending on
health.

What will be covered? Again, not clear yet. A basket of services, including free
GP care, acute hospital care and mental health was in the original draft of the
plan, but subsequently removed.

What won''t be covered? A&E, nursing-home care, home care, community services
and public health. But the State will still have to substantially foot the bill
for these services, separate to UHI.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday

Carrier change would keep health care costs unchanged in Millbury

BYLINE: Susan Spencer

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: MILLBURY


MILLBURY - The move to a single health insurance carrier for town employees a
few years ago may provide the leverage to keep health insurance costs virtually
flat next year, without changes in plan design, Town Manager Robert J. Spain Jr.
told selectmen on Feb. 14.

Mr. Spain said he had met with the Insurance Advisory Committee to look at
options for controlling skyrocketing costs. The town's current carrier had
proposed an 8.5 percent increase in premiums for the coming year. However,
another carrier the committee looked at would only increase costs by .08 percent
over current levels if the town switched its enrollment.

Selectmen recently adopted a state law that would allow the town to make cost
-effective changes to its health insurance plan, including giving it the option
of joining the state Group Insurance Commission. Mr. Spain said that the
proposed carrier change, if approved by town employees, would achieve cost
savings without joining the GIC.

"I'm fundamentally opposed to joining the GIC because we lose control," Mr.
Spain said. "Hopefully, employees will vote to allow us to change carriers."

Mr. Spain will present the fiscal 2013 budget to selectmen at 7 p.m. March 1. He
said that under the governor's budget proposal, Chapter 70 state aid for
Millbury would be funded at the current level.

Also at the meeting, selectmen voted to increase the comprehensive permit fees
for builders developing low-income housing to $5,000 from the current $1,600,
with an additional $200 per market-rate unit, up from the $100 per market-rate
unit. Richard Valentino, chairman of the Board of Appeals, said that while no
eligible project has been proposed in town for 20 years, the fee increase would
be in line with neighboring towns and would help pay for lawyers and engineers
who have to review the application.

Selectman Kenneth I. Schold announced that he will not run for re-election and
will step down from the board April 24. Mr. Schold has served as a selectman for
nine years and on the Planning Board for 10 years.

Mr. Spain announced the appointment of Sanders Genna for a three-year term as
assistant assessor. Mr Genna, an Oakham resident, has relevant experience in
Worcester and Northboro.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MILLBURY - The move to a single health insurance carrier for town
employees a few years ago may provide the leverage to keep health insurance
costs virtually flat next year, without changes in plan design, Town Manager
Robert J. Spain Jr. told selectmen on Feb. 14.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                          November 29, 2006 Wednesday

What about the farmers?

BYLINE: By RICHARD DAVIS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 775 words


Imagine our society as a large pond. Now imagine 46 million people throwing
rocks into that pond creating overlapping ripples. That is the effect of the
lack of health insurance on our potentially peaceful and tranquil pond. The
rock-throwing never ends, and instead of the mild surface disturbances that a
happy rock skipper might create, we end up with waves of suffering, bankruptcy
and death.

Health insurance is not just about insurance and health care. If life were that
simple we would have figured out a way to solve the problem of high cost and
lack of access.

Instead, we have to deal with the ripple effects that a society suffers when too
many of its people can't afford health insurance or health care.

We are beginning to hear a little (not enough) about how insurance costs are
crippling small businesses here in Vermont and around the country. The linkage
of insurance to employment is outdated and no longer practical in our society,
yet we continue with this model because we don't have the political will to
change it.

Then there are the self-employed about whom we hear even less when it comes to
the pain of health insurance. These people have been historically lumped
together by insurance companies as the high-cost group, so their rates have
tended to be higher than others, especially for policies in the nongroup market.

Even in a state such as Vermont, with community rating, the self-employed get
hit the hardest most often. Community rating means that people can't be charged
different rates for insurance based on their health status, age or other
factors. But community rating allows insurance companies to put people in
categories and charge those categories more than other categories. That means
they can get away with charging nongroup policy holders more than those who work
for a business that has cut a deal for lower rates for their employees.

So what about the farmers? They are generally self-employed and if they can't
find a group to belong to they end up paying some of the highest rates for
insurance. How come we are not hearing more about the burden that health
insurance is putting on farmers and their families?

We hear about low milk prices and the high cost of electricity, but it is health
insurance and the cost of health care that is keeping a lot of farmers awake at
night or turning farmers or their wives into factory workers just so they can
afford health insurance. It's a common farm survival method.

I spoke to a dairy farmer in Swanton a few weeks ago and she told me that the
cost of health insurance is her biggest expense worry. She also made it clear
that most others farmers that she knows are struggling with the same problem.
The effect of the high cost of health insurance on farming is one of those
ripples that has become a big wave that threatens to drown family farming.

Farming is one of the most hazardous occupations and states that don't have
community rating often charge farmers more for health insurance than nonfarmers.
Also consider the fact that in Vermont, according to 2002 U.S. Census Bureau
figures, the average age of the principal farm operator for Vermont's 6,571
farms was 53.9 years. Farmers in their 50s have reached the age of body wear and
tear and, because of their work, that degeneration happens faster than for the
rest of us. They are the last group of people that should be without insurance.

Should we live in a state or country that puts a seventh generation family farm
into bankruptcy because a farmer breaks a leg falling out of a hayloft or
because he gets his hand caught in the gears of a manure spreader or because he
needs a hip or knee replacement?

We have a plan on the table, Catamount Health, and it may not be within fiscal
reach to include too many new groups of people in the next year or two. But we
also have a farm crisis in Vermont. Just as with property taxes, we are hearing
political proposals that make no sense and that don't really get to the root of
the problem.

We don't need to cap school spending and we don't need to turn farms into
mini-welfare programs. What we need to do is create a health care system that is
affordable for school districts and municipalities, for farmers and eventually
for all of the rest of us.

I urge the new Vermont Legislature to allow farmers to buy into Catamount when
the program begins in October. It's the only sensible way to begin to solve the
problem of the loss of Vermont farms while protecting a group of people who are
an integral part of the backbone of our economy.

Richard Davis is a registered nurse and executive director of Vermont Citizens
Campaign for Health. He writes from Guilford.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday

Insurers continue health care rip-off

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 782 words


Wednesday September 22, 2010

LENOX

"Employers pushed costs for health on workers," The New York Times revealed this
month, citing a survey released by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a non-profit
research group. Although the cost of an average insurance policy rose 3 percent,
the worker's share of the cost of a family policy jumped 14 percent. Workers are
absorbing more of the costs of health insurance premiums as well as facing
higher deductibles, thus paying a larger share of their overall health care
costs.

Helen Darling, president of the National Business Group, says that companies
expect their costs to go up more under the new health care law, the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), which requires them to provide more
benefits. She says businesses "can't afford to subsidize what's happening."
Meanwhile, in 2009, profits increased 56 percent for the nation's five largest
health insurers to $12.2 billion. Insurance company CEO compensation keeps
rising as well. Stephen Helmsley, CEO of United Health Group, received an income
of $107.5 million last year.

Not only are health insurance companies squandering our hard-earned health care
premiums on profits, they are often doing so illegally. The California
Department of Insurance is seeking fines from PacifiCare, a subsidiary of United
Health Group, for nearly one million violations of state law from 2006-2008. The
attorney for the Department of Insurance stated, "It's a story of intense
corporate greed."

With the passage of the new health care law (PPACA), health insurers can only
spend 15 percent of premiums from large groups, and 20 percent of premiums from
individual policies on administrative expenses. As might be expected, health
insurers are gaming the system by pushing as many of their administrative
expenses as possible to the medical side so they can preserve CEO salaries and
profits, while beleaguered businesses and struggling workers continue to fill
the coffers of the health insurance industry.

The for-profit private insurance system, with its multiple insurance plans and
micro-management, creates an additional administrative burden for providers of
health care, consuming another 12 percent of the premium dollars, which brings
total administrative costs up to 32 percent of insurance premiums. Doctors spend
hours on paperwork every day.

A national single-payer health insurance program, like an improved Medicare
system for everyone, would save $400 billion a year by eliminating the private
health insurance industry. According to a recent report from the U.S. House
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Medicare administrative expenses are less than
1.5 percent, which means that 98.5 percent of premiums are actually spent on
health care. Businesses would be freed from paying rising health insurance costs
or passing them on to their workers, because health insurance coverage would not
be tied to employment. Everyone would have health insurance coverage, paid for
by a modest payroll tax, which would be less than current health care premiums.

In 2009, President Obama stated, "I want to cover everybody. Now the truth is
unless you have a single-payer system in which everyone's automatically covered,
you're probably not going to reach every single individual." He's right.
Official estimates this week from the Census Bureau show a dramatic spike in the
number of Americans without health insurance in 2009 to a record 50.7 million.
The rise in the number of uninsured was almost entirely due to a sharp decline
in the number of people with employer-based coverage, which has declined for the
ninth consecutive year.

In 2014, when PPACA is finally implemented, 23 million Americans will remain
uninsured. In Massachusetts, 295,000 citizens still do not have insurance four
years after the passage of our own state reform bill. Health insurance must be
divorced from employment, and a single-payer program established to cover
everyone in a cost-effective manner.

In Massachusetts, there will be a non-binding referendum on the ballot in 14
districts in November, including districts 2 and 4 in the Berkshires. Question 4
reads, "Shall the representative from this district be instructed to support
legislation that would establish health care as a human right regardless of age,
state of health or employment status, by creating a single payer health
insurance system like Medicare that is comprehensive, cost effective, and
publicly provided to all residents of Massachusetts?"

By voting "yes" on question 4, voters will send a clear message to our state
government, proclaiming their support for single-payer health care reform.

Susanne L. King, M. D., is a Lenox-based practitioner.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 18, 2003 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

(HEALTHCARE PLAN PROPOSALS)

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 581 words


The Dean plan

Costs: $88.3 billion in the first year of implementation, 2008.

Coverage: About 30 million of the uninsured.

Children: Expand the current federal-state children's health insurance program
to cover low-income young adults through age 24 and some low-income parents.

Employers: Use what Dean calls a "hammer" provision to encourage big businesses
to provide health insurance for their employees by threatening to withdraw
certain tax benefits or bar access to government contracts for those that don't.

Require businesses that currently offer insurance to their employees to extend
coverage to dependents up to age 24. Companies would also have to continue to
pay health insurance premiums for an employee for two months after he or she has
left the job.

Small business: Create a new "Universal Health Benefits Program," modeled after
insurance plans currently available to members of Congress and federal
employees. The plan would be open to small businesses and people who don't get
insurance through their employers or who are self-employed.

The uninsured: Provide tax credits to the uninsured to cover part of the cost of
participating in the new program.

The Gephardt plan

Cost: 213.8 billion in 2005, $230.5 billion in 2006 and $247.3 billion in 2007.

Coverage: About 30 million of the uninsured.

Children: Expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program, a federal-state
program currently available to low-income children, to also cover their parents.

Employers: Provide businesses with a tax credit for 60 percent of the cost of
health insurance for employees, which they would be required to use to provide
coverage. Corporations that now pay more than 60 percent of their employees'
health insurance premiums would not be able to reduce their contributions.

Low income/unemployed: Provide a 25 percent tax credit for some low-income
workers who could still not afford to pay their share of health insurance
premiums.

Allow individuals 55 years and older to buy into the Medicare program.

Provide a 65 percent federal subsidy for health insurance for some unemployed
workers.

Government workers: Reimburse state and local governments for 60 pe rcent of the
cost of the health insurance for their employees. That would save states an
estimated $172 billion.

The Kerry plan

Cost: An average of $72 billion for the first five years.

Coverage: About 27 million of the uninsured.

Children: Expand the current federal-state children's health insurance program
to cover low-income young adults through age 24 and some low-income parents.

Employers: Create a "premium rebate pool" that would help businesses pay for
certain catastrophic health care costs, on the condition that businesses provide
all employees health care and pass on the savings to their workers.

Small business/unemployed: Allow individuals to buy into the type of health
plans that are currently available to members of Congress and federal employees,
with tax credits to the unemployed and workers in small businesses.

Drugs: Require pharmacy benefit managers to disclose rebates and incentives from
drug makers and get generic drugs on the market faster to spur price
competition.

Malpractice: Bar medical malpractice lawsuits unless a qualified specialist
validates a reasonable claim, require states to offer non-binding arbitration,
and raise levels of proof for punitive damage awards.

Sources: The Dean, Gephardt, and Kerry campaigns

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) PHOTO headshot - (Howard) Dean; (2) PHOTO headshot -
(Richard) Gephardt; (3) PHOTO heashot - (John) Kerry

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              300 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                          February 12, 1992 Wednesday

Health costs on critical list

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 1467 words


Private health costs are likely to soar in the next decade as fewer people take
out insurance. Medical Writer BARRY HAILSTONE argues it is time for urgent
changes to the health system before it collapses.

HEALTH costs in the future are threatening the economic security of many
Australian families. As the number of uninsured and underinsured people soars,
the future of public and private health care is being endangered to the point
where top priority should be given to urgent reform.

By the year 2000, the average South Australian family may be spending $136 a
week on private health insurance - nearly $1 of every $5 income. At the moment,
a top-table family cover with extras costs $36 a week - or 7.8 per cent of the
average SA weekly income. Five years ago, South Australians had to find $18.20
weekly from average weekly earnings of $350.30 for the same cover (5.2 per
cent.)

But at the rate that health insurance has been increasing since 1987,
projections prepared by The Advertiser from health industry figures show South
Australians could be paying 17 per cent of their income for health insurance
within the next eight years. Where will the average family get the money to
afford these skyrocketing costs?

The cost of providing health care has to be spread around a large-enough pool of
healthy and sick people to minimise the cost to any individual. Ten years ago in
South Australia, more than 1 million people had private health insurance. Today,
the number is 669,000.

Not only has the falling number of insured forced the cost of health insurance
to increase, it also has put enormous pressure on the public hospital system,
which can no longer be sustained. The question now being asked is how long can
the public sector survive without a private-sector "safety valve?"

The private health insurance industry wants the Government to make people on
high incomes provide for their own health care. Australian Health Insurance
Association chief executive officer Mr Russell Schneider says there are almost
800,000 "chardonnay socialists" on incomes of more than $40,000 a year using
publicly funded hospitals without charge, while more than 600,000 people on less
than $240 a week have had to take out private health insurance because Medicare
doesn't give them what they need.

Mr Schneider says insurance costs are also rising because "hit-and-run" members
are evaluating their own health risk and dropping out of insurance, knowing
that, if they need to, they can re-enter the system, wait 12 months and then
bypass queues. Incentives are needed to encourage long-term membership.

Australia also needs incentives to revive the health insurance psyche,
particularly among people under 25 who think it's "free" and who are going to
face a health financing crisis in 10 years when they have family
responsibilities.

One day in hospital now costs the equivalent of six months of contributing to a
health fund. Surgery for appendicitis equals the equivalent of three years of
single contribution and a total hip replacement equates to 20 years single
contribution.

The health insurance industry says the traditional community rating system
cannot work for much longer if private health insurance remains an incremental
option to the Medicare scheme.

M EDICARE has contained Federal Government expenditure on health

- an achievement won by the mandarins in Canberra at the expense of State
governments, health insurance contributors and the individual who has to meet
ever-rising out-of-pocket costs when visiting the doctor.

Mutual Community retiring general manager Mr Bill Cousins says that by
intentionally transferring costs of Medicare to the private hospital sector the
Government has inflated health fund contributions and dug its own Medicare
grave.

Public funds are finite, the public hospital system is overburdened and the
Medicare levy covers only a small part of the real cost with the remainder
sourced from consolidated revenue.

"Governments have to look now at how they spend the welfare dollar," he says.
"They have to encourage more people away from the overcrowded public sector and
back into the private sector.

"Health is the only welfare payment where no form of income or asset testing is
applied. A lot of people who can afford to cover themselves simply don't because
the system is 'free'

- the Medicare levy secures it for them at bargain-basement rates.

"I might be old fashioned but I think we have to get away from the cargo cult
mentality if we are going to progress into the future."

The cost of rapidly improving technology against the background of an ageing
population is also a major problem. Hospital use by the over 65s is increasing
by at least five times the rate of that for those under 65. At the same time,
medical research and technological advances have improved the quality of life
for the sick and elderly, prolonged life and created an on-going burden of cost.

Less concern about the political implications of health and more for the
appropriateness of new technology might have helped the Federal Government
contain costs. Australian private health funds presently pay benefits for 486
"body parts" - an expectation of an "if-it's-there-let's-have-it" society.

In the United States all new technology approved for introduction is assessed as
being "medically beneficial". If a new surgical technique is introduced and it
is found to be cost effective, funds cease to pay benefits on the old technique.

Conversely, if a new technique is more costly, but not necessarily better, a
lower benefit (or none at all) is paid. For example, when the arthroscope was
introduced into Australia for same-day knee surgery, health insurance funds paid
the same benefit as they had done for major open-knee surgery in the past.
Another question to consider is whether private health funds are working to keep
private health insurance premiums at affordable levels. According to Mr James
Hill, the general manager of one of the State's smaller health funds, HBF, they
aren't.

He believes funds are the natural group to look after privately insured members'
interests, saying they give it lip service but don't seem to worry about what
members have to pay to maintain their insurance.

Mr Hill is pessimistic about the future of private medical insurance: "Private
health funds, as we know them, won't survive until the year 2000," he says.

But if they do, then it will be only through vigorous reform.

Mr Hill supports a health insurance "excess" (as in motor vehicle policies) for
all privately insured fund contributors when they use the hospital system, with
appropriate safety nets to cover those who are dealt cruel blows in life.

This would complement health promotion and make people aware of the actual cost
of health and lower contribution rates, he says.

Nearly 5000 HBF members signed a petition in December calling on the Federal
Government to "make private health insurance more affordable".

"There are many South Australians who are concerned about this issue but there
is little indication that their interests have been or are being considered," Mr
Hill says.

The Federal Minister for Health, Housing and Community Services, Mr Howe,
responded to the petition by informing HBF that the Commonwealth had "nearly
completed its findings about private health".

While the Federal Government has been consulting with special interest groups
such as private hospitals, State and federal bureaucrats and doctors, Mr Hill
says it is most unlikely it has listened to the privately insured community
which is sick of being a prop to the rest of the system.

A SHFORD Hospital chief executive officer Mr Geoff Sam says the symptoms of the
need for "urgent, fundamental change in both the public and private systems" are
becoming obvious.

"Everyone on an income should be paying for their health care on an equitable
basis," he argues. "Medicare has encouraged fit and healthy Australians to opt
out, leaving their costs to be picked up by a small privately insured group.

"Every Australian has to pay the real costs of health care

- it is an illusion to think the cost is equal to the Medicare levy.

"People also need to know that if they want access to the public hospital system
then the only way they are going to get it in the future is through accident and
emergency departments.

"Without private insurance they will have to wait on ever-lengthening public
hospital waiting lists."

Mr Sam says as public hospitals begin to shed services they can no longer
afford, there is no incentive for private hospitals to pick these services up
because the number of insured patients is not increasing.

"It is a dangerous situation," he says.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graph: cost of health insurance; artwork: hospital patient; Schaefer,
David

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1992 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              301 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                          February 12, 1992 Wednesday

Health costs on critical list

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 1467 words


Private health costs are likely to soar in the next decade as fewer people take
out insurance. Medical Writer BARRY HAILSTONE argues it is time for urgent
changes to the health system before it collapses.

HEALTH costs in the future are threatening the economic security of many
Australian families. As the number of uninsured and underinsured people soars,
the future of public and private health care is being endangered to the point
where top priority should be given to urgent reform.

By the year 2000, the average South Australian family may be spending $136 a
week on private health insurance - nearly $1 of every $5 income. At the moment,
a top-table family cover with extras costs $36 a week - or 7.8 per cent of the
average SA weekly income. Five years ago, South Australians had to find $18.20
weekly from average weekly earnings of $350.30 for the same cover (5.2 per
cent.)

But at the rate that health insurance has been increasing since 1987,
projections prepared by The Advertiser from health industry figures show South
Australians could be paying 17 per cent of their income for health insurance
within the next eight years. Where will the average family get the money to
afford these skyrocketing costs?

The cost of providing health care has to be spread around a large-enough pool of
healthy and sick people to minimise the cost to any individual. Ten years ago in
South Australia, more than 1 million people had private health insurance. Today,
the number is 669,000.

Not only has the falling number of insured forced the cost of health insurance
to increase, it also has put enormous pressure on the public hospital system,
which can no longer be sustained. The question now being asked is how long can
the public sector survive without a private-sector "safety valve?"

The private health insurance industry wants the Government to make people on
high incomes provide for their own health care. Australian Health Insurance
Association chief executive officer Mr Russell Schneider says there are almost
800,000 "chardonnay socialists" on incomes of more than $40,000 a year using
publicly funded hospitals without charge, while more than 600,000 people on less
than $240 a week have had to take out private health insurance because Medicare
doesn't give them what they need.

Mr Schneider says insurance costs are also rising because "hit-and-run" members
are evaluating their own health risk and dropping out of insurance, knowing
that, if they need to, they can re-enter the system, wait 12 months and then
bypass queues. Incentives are needed to encourage long-term membership.

Australia also needs incentives to revive the health insurance psyche,
particularly among people under 25 who think it's "free" and who are going to
face a health financing crisis in 10 years when they have family
responsibilities.

One day in hospital now costs the equivalent of six months of contributing to a
health fund. Surgery for appendicitis equals the equivalent of three years of
single contribution and a total hip replacement equates to 20 years single
contribution.

The health insurance industry says the traditional community rating system
cannot work for much longer if private health insurance remains an incremental
option to the Medicare scheme.

M EDICARE has contained Federal Government expenditure on health

- an achievement won by the mandarins in Canberra at the expense of State
governments, health insurance contributors and the individual who has to meet
ever-rising out-of-pocket costs when visiting the doctor.

Mutual Community retiring general manager Mr Bill Cousins says that by
intentionally transferring costs of Medicare to the private hospital sector the
Government has inflated health fund contributions and dug its own Medicare
grave.

Public funds are finite, the public hospital system is overburdened and the
Medicare levy covers only a small part of the real cost with the remainder
sourced from consolidated revenue.

"Governments have to look now at how they spend the welfare dollar," he says.
"They have to encourage more people away from the overcrowded public sector and
back into the private sector.

"Health is the only welfare payment where no form of income or asset testing is
applied. A lot of people who can afford to cover themselves simply don't because
the system is 'free'

- the Medicare levy secures it for them at bargain-basement rates.

"I might be old fashioned but I think we have to get away from the cargo cult
mentality if we are going to progress into the future."

The cost of rapidly improving technology against the background of an ageing
population is also a major problem. Hospital use by the over 65s is increasing
by at least five times the rate of that for those under 65. At the same time,
medical research and technological advances have improved the quality of life
for the sick and elderly, prolonged life and created an on-going burden of cost.

Less concern about the political implications of health and more for the
appropriateness of new technology might have helped the Federal Government
contain costs. Australian private health funds presently pay benefits for 486
"body parts" - an expectation of an "if-it's-there-let's-have-it" society.

In the United States all new technology approved for introduction is assessed as
being "medically beneficial". If a new surgical technique is introduced and it
is found to be cost effective, funds cease to pay benefits on the old technique.

Conversely, if a new technique is more costly, but not necessarily better, a
lower benefit (or none at all) is paid. For example, when the arthroscope was
introduced into Australia for same-day knee surgery, health insurance funds paid
the same benefit as they had done for major open-knee surgery in the past.
Another question to consider is whether private health funds are working to keep
private health insurance premiums at affordable levels. According to Mr James
Hill, the general manager of one of the State's smaller health funds, HBF, they
aren't.

He believes funds are the natural group to look after privately insured members'
interests, saying they give it lip service but don't seem to worry about what
members have to pay to maintain their insurance.

Mr Hill is pessimistic about the future of private medical insurance: "Private
health funds, as we know them, won't survive until the year 2000," he says.

But if they do, then it will be only through vigorous reform.

Mr Hill supports a health insurance "excess" (as in motor vehicle policies) for
all privately insured fund contributors when they use the hospital system, with
appropriate safety nets to cover those who are dealt cruel blows in life.

This would complement health promotion and make people aware of the actual cost
of health and lower contribution rates, he says.

Nearly 5000 HBF members signed a petition in December calling on the Federal
Government to "make private health insurance more affordable".

"There are many South Australians who are concerned about this issue but there
is little indication that their interests have been or are being considered," Mr
Hill says.

The Federal Minister for Health, Housing and Community Services, Mr Howe,
responded to the petition by informing HBF that the Commonwealth had "nearly
completed its findings about private health".

While the Federal Government has been consulting with special interest groups
such as private hospitals, State and federal bureaucrats and doctors, Mr Hill
says it is most unlikely it has listened to the privately insured community
which is sick of being a prop to the rest of the system.

A SHFORD Hospital chief executive officer Mr Geoff Sam says the symptoms of the
need for "urgent, fundamental change in both the public and private systems" are
becoming obvious.

"Everyone on an income should be paying for their health care on an equitable
basis," he argues. "Medicare has encouraged fit and healthy Australians to opt
out, leaving their costs to be picked up by a small privately insured group.

"Every Australian has to pay the real costs of health care

- it is an illusion to think the cost is equal to the Medicare levy.

"People also need to know that if they want access to the public hospital system
then the only way they are going to get it in the future is through accident and
emergency departments.

"Without private insurance they will have to wait on ever-lengthening public
hospital waiting lists."

Mr Sam says as public hospitals begin to shed services they can no longer
afford, there is no incentive for private hospitals to pick these services up
because the number of insured patients is not increasing.

"It is a dangerous situation," he says.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graph: cost of health insurance; artwork: hospital patient; Schaefer,
David

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1992 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              302 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                          February 12, 1992 Wednesday

Health costs on critical list

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 1467 words


Private health costs are likely to soar in the next decade as fewer people take
out insurance. Medical Writer BARRY HAILSTONE argues it is time for urgent
changes to the health system before it collapses.

HEALTH costs in the future are threatening the economic security of many
Australian families. As the number of uninsured and underinsured people soars,
the future of public and private health care is being endangered to the point
where top priority should be given to urgent reform.

By the year 2000, the average South Australian family may be spending $136 a
week on private health insurance - nearly $1 of every $5 income. At the moment,
a top-table family cover with extras costs $36 a week - or 7.8 per cent of the
average SA weekly income. Five years ago, South Australians had to find $18.20
weekly from average weekly earnings of $350.30 for the same cover (5.2 per
cent.)

But at the rate that health insurance has been increasing since 1987,
projections prepared by The Advertiser from health industry figures show South
Australians could be paying 17 per cent of their income for health insurance
within the next eight years. Where will the average family get the money to
afford these skyrocketing costs?

The cost of providing health care has to be spread around a large-enough pool of
healthy and sick people to minimise the cost to any individual. Ten years ago in
South Australia, more than 1 million people had private health insurance. Today,
the number is 669,000.

Not only has the falling number of insured forced the cost of health insurance
to increase, it also has put enormous pressure on the public hospital system,
which can no longer be sustained. The question now being asked is how long can
the public sector survive without a private-sector "safety valve?"

The private health insurance industry wants the Government to make people on
high incomes provide for their own health care. Australian Health Insurance
Association chief executive officer Mr Russell Schneider says there are almost
800,000 "chardonnay socialists" on incomes of more than $40,000 a year using
publicly funded hospitals without charge, while more than 600,000 people on less
than $240 a week have had to take out private health insurance because Medicare
doesn't give them what they need.

Mr Schneider says insurance costs are also rising because "hit-and-run" members
are evaluating their own health risk and dropping out of insurance, knowing
that, if they need to, they can re-enter the system, wait 12 months and then
bypass queues. Incentives are needed to encourage long-term membership.

Australia also needs incentives to revive the health insurance psyche,
particularly among people under 25 who think it's "free" and who are going to
face a health financing crisis in 10 years when they have family
responsibilities.

One day in hospital now costs the equivalent of six months of contributing to a
health fund. Surgery for appendicitis equals the equivalent of three years of
single contribution and a total hip replacement equates to 20 years single
contribution.

The health insurance industry says the traditional community rating system
cannot work for much longer if private health insurance remains an incremental
option to the Medicare scheme.

M EDICARE has contained Federal Government expenditure on health

- an achievement won by the mandarins in Canberra at the expense of State
governments, health insurance contributors and the individual who has to meet
ever-rising out-of-pocket costs when visiting the doctor.

Mutual Community retiring general manager Mr Bill Cousins says that by
intentionally transferring costs of Medicare to the private hospital sector the
Government has inflated health fund contributions and dug its own Medicare
grave.

Public funds are finite, the public hospital system is overburdened and the
Medicare levy covers only a small part of the real cost with the remainder
sourced from consolidated revenue.

"Governments have to look now at how they spend the welfare dollar," he says.
"They have to encourage more people away from the overcrowded public sector and
back into the private sector.

"Health is the only welfare payment where no form of income or asset testing is
applied. A lot of people who can afford to cover themselves simply don't because
the system is 'free'

- the Medicare levy secures it for them at bargain-basement rates.

"I might be old fashioned but I think we have to get away from the cargo cult
mentality if we are going to progress into the future."

The cost of rapidly improving technology against the background of an ageing
population is also a major problem. Hospital use by the over 65s is increasing
by at least five times the rate of that for those under 65. At the same time,
medical research and technological advances have improved the quality of life
for the sick and elderly, prolonged life and created an on-going burden of cost.

Less concern about the political implications of health and more for the
appropriateness of new technology might have helped the Federal Government
contain costs. Australian private health funds presently pay benefits for 486
"body parts" - an expectation of an "if-it's-there-let's-have-it" society.

In the United States all new technology approved for introduction is assessed as
being "medically beneficial". If a new surgical technique is introduced and it
is found to be cost effective, funds cease to pay benefits on the old technique.

Conversely, if a new technique is more costly, but not necessarily better, a
lower benefit (or none at all) is paid. For example, when the arthroscope was
introduced into Australia for same-day knee surgery, health insurance funds paid
the same benefit as they had done for major open-knee surgery in the past.
Another question to consider is whether private health funds are working to keep
private health insurance premiums at affordable levels. According to Mr James
Hill, the general manager of one of the State's smaller health funds, HBF, they
aren't.

He believes funds are the natural group to look after privately insured members'
interests, saying they give it lip service but don't seem to worry about what
members have to pay to maintain their insurance.

Mr Hill is pessimistic about the future of private medical insurance: "Private
health funds, as we know them, won't survive until the year 2000," he says.

But if they do, then it will be only through vigorous reform.

Mr Hill supports a health insurance "excess" (as in motor vehicle policies) for
all privately insured fund contributors when they use the hospital system, with
appropriate safety nets to cover those who are dealt cruel blows in life.

This would complement health promotion and make people aware of the actual cost
of health and lower contribution rates, he says.

Nearly 5000 HBF members signed a petition in December calling on the Federal
Government to "make private health insurance more affordable".

"There are many South Australians who are concerned about this issue but there
is little indication that their interests have been or are being considered," Mr
Hill says.

The Federal Minister for Health, Housing and Community Services, Mr Howe,
responded to the petition by informing HBF that the Commonwealth had "nearly
completed its findings about private health".

While the Federal Government has been consulting with special interest groups
such as private hospitals, State and federal bureaucrats and doctors, Mr Hill
says it is most unlikely it has listened to the privately insured community
which is sick of being a prop to the rest of the system.

A SHFORD Hospital chief executive officer Mr Geoff Sam says the symptoms of the
need for "urgent, fundamental change in both the public and private systems" are
becoming obvious.

"Everyone on an income should be paying for their health care on an equitable
basis," he argues. "Medicare has encouraged fit and healthy Australians to opt
out, leaving their costs to be picked up by a small privately insured group.

"Every Australian has to pay the real costs of health care

- it is an illusion to think the cost is equal to the Medicare levy.

"People also need to know that if they want access to the public hospital system
then the only way they are going to get it in the future is through accident and
emergency departments.

"Without private insurance they will have to wait on ever-lengthening public
hospital waiting lists."

Mr Sam says as public hospitals begin to shed services they can no longer
afford, there is no incentive for private hospitals to pick these services up
because the number of insured patients is not increasing.

"It is a dangerous situation," he says.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graph: cost of health insurance; artwork: hospital patient; Schaefer,
David

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1992 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              303 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times (Munster, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday

Portage health insurance costs skyrocket

BYLINE: Joyce Russell, The Times, Munster, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


Dec. 13--PORTAGE -- The city's cost of health insurance will increase
dramatically next year.

The Board of Works approved contracts for Meritain Insurance of Downers Grove,
Ill., as its third party administrator and Berkley Risk Administrator of
Minneapolis, Minn., as health insurance stop-loss carrier on Monday at a 23
percent increase in 2012.

"We had an unbelievable year in the city as far as claims were concerned," said
Mitch Ripley, a human resources consultant. "In all my cities, I've never seen
so many sick people."

The cost, including insurance administration, claims processing and premiums,
will climb from $507,000 in 2011 to $661,000 in 2012.

The city is self-insured and pays medical claims for employees up to $80,000.
Once a claim reaches that level, it goes to the insurance company.

This year, said Mayor Olga Velazquez, the city budgeted $2.4 million for claims
before the stop-loss carrier would kick in. She predicted it would be over $3
million as it was last year.

Ripley said they shopped around to be competitive, but 19 companies refused to
bid on the city's insurance because of its claims record.

"We've had some serious illnesses. We have an aging workforce," said Velazquez,
adding health insurance costs are something all municipalities and businesses
are dealing with.

The rising cost to the city won't affect employees. Ripley said premiums and
deductibles will remain the same.

The board also approved staying with Anthem insurance for employee dental
coverage. It was the lowest of five bids received. Premiums for employees will
remain the same.

They will change their prescription carrier from Express Scripts to Caremark
effective Jan. 1. Ripley said Express Scripts will no longer have a relationship
with Walgreens where many employees shop. The new carrier does have an agreement
with Walgreens.

___ (c)2011 The Times (Munster, Ind.) Visit The Times (Munster, Ind.) at
www.nwitimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111213-MU-Portage-health-insurance-costs-skyrocket-20111213

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MU


                            Copyright 2011 The Times


                              304 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program: Revised Amount of the Average Cost
of a Health Insurance Policy

LENGTH: 365  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:

The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) is publishing an updated
monetary amount of the average cost of a health insurance policy as it relates
to the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP).

Section 100.2 of the VICP's implementing regulation (42 CFR Part 100) states
that the revised amounts of an average cost of a health insurance policy, as
determined by the Secretary, are to be published periodically in a notice in the
Federal Register and filed with the United States Court of Federal Claims (the
Court). This figure is calculated using the most recent Medical Expenditure
Panel Survey--Insurance Component (MEPS-IC) data available as the baseline for
the average monthly cost of a health insurance policy. This baseline is adjusted
by the annual percentage increase/decrease obtained from the most recent annual
Kaiser Family Foundation and Health Research and Educational Trust (KFF/HRET)
Employer Health Benefits survey or other authoritative source that may be more
accurate or appropriate.

In 2014, MEPS-IC, available at www.meps.ahrq.gov, published the annual 2013
average total single premium per enrolled employee at private-sector
establishments that provide health insurance. The figure published was $5,571.
This figure is divided by 12-months to determine the cost per month of $464.25.
The $464.25 shall be increased or decreased by the percentage change reported by
the most recent KFF/HRET, available at www.kff.org. The percentage increase from
2013 to 2014 was published at 2 percent. By adding this percentage increase, the
calculated average monthly cost of a health insurance policy is $473.54 for
2014.

Therefore, the Secretary announces that the revised average cost of a health
insurance policy under the VICP is $473.54 per month. In accordance with §
100.2, the revised amount was effective upon its delivery by the Secretary to
the Court. Such notice was delivered to the Court on November 13, 2014.

Dated: November 13, 2014.

Mary K. Wakefield,

Administrator.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 3, 2010 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The perils of prognostication Our view o Health insurance rates climb at their
slowest pace in 15 years.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: 0


Even before Congress had passed health care reform, opponents were predicting
immediate, sharp hikes in health insurance premiums. Since then, the drumbeat of
impending doom only has gotten louder.

"Health care premiums are already soaring in advance of Obamacare," Fox News
reported just two weeks ago. That headline turns out to have been overstated.

The average cost of employer-provided health insurance rose just 3 percent this
year, according to the authoritative Kaiser Family Foundation's employer health
benefits survey. That's the lowest rate of increase since the mid-1990s.

Health insurance still is staggeringly expensive. The average cost of individual
coverage now is $5,049. Employer-provided family coverage costs an average of
$13,770.

The cost of health insurance - especially for families - has skyrocketed in
recent years. It's up about 150 percent since 1998.

But those increases have nothing to do with health care reform. In fact, they're
one of the problems health care reform is designed to address.

Even with this year's modest premium hike, many families will feel a greater
pinch.

Since 2000, employers have been shifting more and more costs onto their workers.
They've done it two ways: By hiking the portion of the insurance premiums that
workers pay and by increasing co-payments and deductibles that must be met
before full coverage kicks in.

While health insurance premiums climbed by an average of 114 percent since 2000,
workers' contributions to those costs grew by 147 percent.

In the same period, inflation was 31 percent and average wages increased by 42
percent.

More than a quarter of workers with individual coverage now are enrolled in
plans that require a $1,000 deductible; 10 percent have deductibles of more than
$2,000. In 2006, just 10 percent had a deductible of $1,000 or more.

This year, 30 percent of employers surveyed said they plan to increase co-pays
and deductibles or reduce the scope of coverage for their workers. Another 23
percent said they plan to increase their workers' share of the premiums.

The 3 percent average increase in premiums this year is matched by a 14 percent
increase in workers' share of health insurance premiums.

That means workers probably will absorb most of this year's premium hike.

Those changes highlight an important trend.

"The coverage that workers get today is looking less and less like the coverage
that their parents used to get," explained Drew Altman, executive director of
the Kaiser Foundation. The biggest change, he said, is how comprehensive the
coverage is - or rather, is not.

Two decades ago, so-called first-dollar coverage - plans that had no deductible
- were common, and many workers made no contribution to the cost of their
insurance. Today, those plans are rare.

Of course, premiums were dramatically lower then. The average cost of family
coverage in 1998 was about $500 less than what it costs today to insure an
individual.

The survey turned up the possible start of an encouraging trend: The percentage
of companies offering health benefits to their workers rose to 69 percent. It
was buoyed by a dramatic 13 percentage point rise in the number of small
companies - those with fewer than 100 workers - that offer health benefits.

Researchers weren't sure what to make of that change, especially in a recession.
But they warn that it might be because significant numbers of companies that
hadn't been offering benefits went out of business during the deep recession.

One important caveat about the Kaiser survey: It only measures prices for group
health insurance.

People who buy health insurance on their own probably will face price hikes
greater than those who get coverage through their jobs.

But under health care reform, people who buy health insurance on their own may
get a rebate next year. New rules going into effect require that insurance
companies spend at least 80 percent of the premiums they collect on health care
for people they cover.

Insurance companies traditionally have had much higher overhead on so-called
individual health insurance policies - as much as 40 percent. In part, that's
because the cost of administering individual policies is much higher.

Companies that don't meet the new standard will be required to rebate excess
overhead costs to policy holders.

The new health care reform law also creates a host of incentives and tax credits
for small businesses to cover their employees.

But the Kaiser survey showed that, on average, companies with fewer than 200
employees actually pay lower premiums than bigger companies. That may be because
they offer less comprehensive coverage to their workers.

It shouldn't be surprising that health care reform opponents were wrong about
the reform's immediate effect on premiums. After all, they are the same people
who spent last summer fretting about "death panels" and "socialized medicine."

They were wrong then, too. But that happens when you substitute ideology for
facts.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Graphic / Chart - Premiums rising

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                      March 04, 2002 Monday, ALL EDITIONS

Blue Cross counterproposal is rejected by city manager

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos; TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 817 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER



- The city has rejected a counterproposal by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Massachusetts, and intends to continue pursuing making Fallon Community Health
Plan the sole insurer of municipal employees and retirees.

City Manager Thomas R. Hoover said the counterproposal, offered last week,
reduces the rate by changing the benefit design.

Although that change would reduce city health insurance costs, he said, the Blue
Cross proposal would remain more expensive than the Fallon plan because Blue
Cross did not make an assumption for mid-year rate increases on its senior
plans.

When that assumption is loaded into the new Blue Cross proposal, Mr. Hoover
said, Blue Cross remains more expensive than Fallon.

The new Blue Cross rate for its Blue Choice Family Plan would be $778.54 a
month, while the Fallon rate for its comparable Point-Of-Service Plan would be
$754.06. The difference of $24.28 per month, per employee, would result in a
total annual expense of $723,824, Mr. Hoover said.

He added that the rate proposed by Blue Cross is 32 percent higher than its
current rate. Before making its counterproposal, Blue Cross had proposed premium
increases of up to 44 percent for next fiscal year.

''I continue to recommend that the city go forward with replacing our Blue Cross
products with Fallon products, so that Fallon Community Health Plan becomes the
sole provider of health insurance for all city of Worcester employees and
retirees,'' Mr. Hoover said.

Changes to employee health insurance must go through the collective bargaining
process. More than 7,000 municipal employees, retirees and their families would
be affected by the changes.

Mr. Hoover said his administration has asked to negotiate with the unions over
the proposed change, but that many have refused to meet with the city.

He said that if no movement is made to reduce health insurance costs by April 1,
layoff proceedings will have to begin in light of the city's projected $11.9
million budget deficit for the fiscal year that begins July 1.

''The only way the city can achieve meaningful savings in health insurance is if
the employees agree not only to carrier and benefit design changes, but to
changes in contributions rates,'' Mr. Hoover said. ''Each 1 percent change in
contribution rates is approximately a $500,000 savings to the city.''

Under state law, the city is required to pay at least 50 percent of the cost of
an indemnity plan, and the employee is required to pay at least 10 percent of a
managed care plan. As a result of contract negotiations over the years, the city
pays 75 percent to 90 percent of the health insurance costs, depending upon the
plan.

Mr. Hoover has said the city can cover an increase in health insurance next
fiscal year of $4 million to $4.5 million above its current $35.3 million health
insurance budget.

But based on the rate increases proposed by Blue Cross and Fallon, the city's
health insurance costs would increase by $11.1 million next year, if the same
plans and contributions rates remained in effect.

After Mr. Hoover announced the city's plans to drop Blue Cross as a provider of
health insurance and make Fallon the sole insurer, Blue Cross submitted its
counterproposal on Tuesday.

To help reduce its costs, the city wants to make its employees pay more for
their health insurance. It would like to scale back the city's contribution rate
for the indemnity plan from 75 percent to 70 percent, and reduce its
contribution rate for HMO and POS plans from 90 percent and 87 percent,
respectively, to 80 percent.

Janice Borg Silverman, the city's director of human resources, said the
projections in the Blue Cross counterproposal confirm the city's contention that
the major source of cost reduction for health insurance is changes in employee
and retiree contributions.

''Absent rate relief from Blue Cross, our only source of significant savings
lies in cooperation from the employees and their unions to modify premium
contributions,'' Ms. Silverman said.

She said three unions are refusing to negotiate, while one is willing to
negotiate with caveats and two are willing to meet.

Ms. Silverman also has not closed the door in regard to Blue Cross. In a letter
she wrote to John Coughlin, Blue Cross vice president of select markets, she
urged the company to reconsider the city's previous requests to find true
savings for employees, retirees and the municipal budget.

''We are pleased to see your new benefit design changes, however, we continue to
be disappointed that the status quo rate on the premium from which the benefit
design changes are derived has not decreased,'' Ms. Silverman wrote.

''Blue Cross continues to make little or no effort to show the city in actual
dollars and cents exactly what our longstanding relationship means to you next
year and in future years,'' she added.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              307 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                           September 28, 2008 Sunday

Health care: Candidates agree on problem, not solutions

BYLINE: By David Pevear, dpevear@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES; Pres. Election

LENGTH: 919 words


LOWELL -- The economy making you ill?

Then try not to think about health-care reform. This is another painfully
complex issue not likely to make you feel any better.

About the only thing John McCain and Barack Obama agree on is that more
Americans need better access to affordable health care. The two presidential
candidates approach health-care reform from opposite directions -- and there is
no telling how many taxpayer billions each candidate's plan might cost.

The most dramatic component of McCain's plan is the elimination of the favorable
tax treatment for employer-based health plans. The government would tax
contributions to employer-based plans and then offer refundable tax credits (up
to $2,500 individuals, up to $5,000 families) to allow all Americans to purchase
private plans.

Obama, on the other hand, wants to mandate that employers provide insurance for
their employees -- or else pay a tax to help fund public programs for the
uninsured. The Obama plan draws heavily from the Massachusetts health care
reform law of 2006, a plan which is still too early along to appraise
adequately, most experts say.

"Very different plans, very different objectives," says A. James Lee, a UMass
Lowell associate professor who specializes in health-care economics, in sizing
up the candidates' plans. "Barack Obama is focused on extending health insurance
to those who are currently uninsured. John McCain is more focused on
restructuring the health-insurance marketplace ... and it's less clear whether
or not his plan will significantly address the lack of insurance coverage."

"If you were starting from scratch, McCain's would probably be the best
approach," says Merrill Matthews, director of the Council For Affordable Health
Insurance, a research and advocacy association of insurance carriers in
Alexandria, Va.

"But, my goodness, (McCain's plan) creates so many upheavals in the current
system," Matthews adds. "It can work. But it would just be a very high hill to
get over, especially with a Democratic Congress."

Says Lee, "The system needs upheaval."

Under the McCain plan "most uninsured Americans would probably remain
uninsured," according to Jonathan Oberlander, in the Aug. 21 issue of the New
England Journal of Medicine. Oberlander, an associate professor of social
medicine and of health policy and administration at the University of North
Carolina-Chapel Hill, wrote also "the Obama plan would substantially expand
access to insurance, (but) it lacks reliable cost-control mechanisms and a
viable financing source."

The Obama campaign estimates his reform package would cost $50 billion to $65
billion annually. The McCain plan is less specific about costs, relying on cost
containment and increased competition within the health-insurance industry to
drive down costs.

Matthews says Obama's plan is "conceivably workable," though does little to
address the greater issue of containing spiraling health-care costs.

As Matthews sees it, the biggest flaw in Obama's plan as proposed is the lack of
a mandate requiring individuals to purchase health insurance.

"If nobody is going to be denied insurance based on medical condition, you've
got to make sure everybody is in the system," he says.

The insurance pool otherwise will be too small to make plans with reasonable
deductibles affordable, Matthews feels. Healthy people can delay purchasing
health insurance until needing it, which Matthews likens to "waiting until your
house burns down to buy home insurance."

Forty-seven million Americans are without health insurance. In growing numbers
even those Americans with health insurance cannot afford their rising medical
bills, according to two non-partisan studies released on Wednesday.

A report by the Center for Studying Health System Change reported more than 57
million Americans experienced problems paying medical bills in 2007. A report by
the Kaiser Family Foundation indicated employer-sponsored health insurance now
costs $12,680 annually for a family plan, with employees on average paying
$3,354 of that cost -- often for plans requiring far higher out-of-pocket costs
than previously. Premiums have more than doubled since 1999.

The common thread Lee sees in both candidates' plans is an eventual shifting
away from employer-based insurance plans. "John McCain would eliminate the tax
exemption, which means the bias toward acquiring health insurance through
employers would be eliminated," says Lee. "With the Barack Obama plan ... the
(public-plan) alternatives that would be created could be sufficiently
attractive, as far as the funding structure, that employers would discontinue
offering health insurance."

Neither candidate adequately addresses the issue of health care's enormous cost
and its growing strain on our economy, says Lee.

Along these lines is the question of what to do about Medicare, about which, it
seems, the less said, the politically better for all concerned. Robert Carroll,
an economist for the nonpartisan Tax Foundation in Washington, D.C., echoes
common fears about Medicare decades down the road spinning into a financial
wreck rivaling the current bailouts in the financial markets. The nearly $500
billion annual bill for Medicare already exceeds what the plan that covers
Americans 65-and-over receives in taxes, and the baby-boomer tidal wave is about
to hit.

Most of what the candidates say about Medicare "is fluff," says Matthews. "I
would argue their discussions on Medicare are what they say about it when they
really don't want to say anything."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                           September 28, 2008 Sunday

HEALTH CARE Candidates agree on problem, not solutions

BYLINE: By David Pevear, dpevear@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES; Pres. Election

LENGTH: 919 words


LOWELL -- The economy making you ill?

Then try not to think about health-care reform. This is another painfully
complex issue not likely to make you feel any better.

About the only thing John McCain and Barack Obama agree on is that more
Americans need better access to affordable health care. The two presidential
candidates approach health-care reform from opposite directions -- and there is
no telling how many taxpayer billions each candidate's plan might cost.

The most dramatic component of McCain's plan is the elimination of the favorable
tax treatment for employer-based health plans. The government would tax
contributions to employer-based plans and then offer refundable tax credits (up
to $2,500 individuals, up to $5,000 families) to allow all Americans to purchase
private plans.

Obama, on the other hand, wants to mandate that employers provide insurance for
their employees -- or else pay a tax to help fund public programs for the
uninsured. The Obama plan draws heavily from the Massachusetts health care
reform law of 2006, a plan which is still too early along to appraise
adequately, most experts say.

"Very different plans, very different objectives," says A. James Lee, a UMass
Lowell associate professor who specializes in health-care economics, in sizing
up the candidates' plans. "Barack Obama is focused on extending health insurance
to those who are currently uninsured. John McCain is more focused on
restructuring the health-insurance marketplace ... and it's less clear whether
or not his plan will significantly address the lack of insurance coverage."

"If you were starting from scratch, McCain's would probably be the best
approach," says Merrill Matthews, director of the Council For Affordable Health
Insurance, a research and advocacy association of insurance carriers in
Alexandria, Va.

"But, my goodness, (McCain's plan) creates so many upheavals in the current
system," Matthews adds. "It can work. But it would just be a very high hill to
get over, especially with a Democratic Congress."

Says Lee, "The system needs upheaval."

Under the McCain plan "most uninsured Americans would probably remain
uninsured," according to Jonathan Oberlander, in the Aug. 21 issue of the New
England Journal of Medicine. Oberlander, an associate professor of social
medicine and of health policy and administration at the University of North
Carolina-Chapel Hill, wrote also "the Obama plan would substantially expand
access to insurance, (but) it lacks reliable cost-control mechanisms and a
viable financing source."

The Obama campaign estimates his reform package would cost $50 billion to $65
billion annually. The McCain plan is less specific about costs, relying on cost
containment and increased competition within the health-insurance industry to
drive down costs.

Matthews says Obama's plan is "conceivably workable," though does little to
address the greater issue of containing spiraling health-care costs.

As Matthews sees it, the biggest flaw in Obama's plan as proposed is the lack of
a mandate requiring individuals to purchase health insurance.

"If nobody is going to be denied insurance based on medical condition, you've
got to make sure everybody is in the system," he says.

The insurance pool otherwise will be too small to make plans with reasonable
deductibles affordable, Matthews feels. Healthy people can delay purchasing
health insurance until needing it, which Matthews likens to "waiting until your
house burns down to buy home insurance."

Forty-seven million Americans are without health insurance. In growing numbers
even those Americans with health insurance cannot afford their rising medical
bills, according to two non-partisan studies released on Wednesday.

A report by the Center for Studying Health System Change reported more than 57
million Americans experienced problems paying medical bills in 2007. A report by
the Kaiser Family Foundation indicated employer-sponsored health insurance now
costs $12,680 annually for a family plan, with employees on average paying
$3,354 of that cost -- often for plans requiring far higher out-of-pocket costs
than previously. Premiums have more than doubled since 1999.

The common thread Lee sees in both candidates' plans is an eventual shifting
away from employer-based insurance plans. "John McCain would eliminate the tax
exemption, which means the bias toward acquiring health insurance through
employers would be eliminated," says Lee. "With the Barack Obama plan ... the
(public-plan) alternatives that would be created could be sufficiently
attractive, as far as the funding structure, that employers would discontinue
offering health insurance."

Neither candidate adequately addresses the issue of health care's enormous cost
and its growing strain on our economy, says Lee.

Along these lines is the question of what to do about Medicare, about which, it
seems, the less said, the politically better for all concerned. Robert Carroll,
an economist for the nonpartisan Tax Foundation in Washington, D.C., echoes
common fears about Medicare decades down the road spinning into a financial
wreck rivaling the current bailouts in the financial markets. The nearly $500
billion annual bill for Medicare already exceeds what the plan that covers
Americans 65-and-over receives in taxes, and the baby-boomer tidal wave is about
to hit.

Most of what the candidates say about Medicare "is fluff," says Matthews. "I
would argue their discussions on Medicare are what they say about it when they
really don't want to say anything."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Investors India

                               September 2, 2015

General Insurance: General Inflation is Down

LENGTH: 885  words


What About Medical Inflation?

Mukesh Kumar, Excutive Director, HDFC ERGO

With international crude oil prices having stabilized around $60 a barrel-level,
general inflation in India has been observed to be softening since the last few
months. Retail inflation has also fallen by 5%-level, and wholesale inflation
has been negative since the beginning of 2015. While fall in general inflation
is a great news for an average Indian, no respite is visible from the rising
medical cost, which continues to remain high even after having risen in
double-digits annually, during the last decade.



Health issues these days

Health is a major concern for all of us. From elderly parents to newborn
children, medication and hospitalization play a significant role in everyone's
life. While age-related ailments are almost inevitable and young children are
vulnerable to accidents and viral diseases. Even the young generation of today
is not immune from health issues notably, the lifestyle-related ailments.
Fiercely competitive corporate environment, extended working hours, unhealthy
food habits, lack of exercise, never-ending stress and unhealthy habits such as
smoking and alcohol have become real part of professional lives today.

These days, with changing lifestyles, Health Insurance is overlooked by the
elders to some extent. Ignoring the fact that a medical emergency can strike
anyone, anytime, irrespective of gender, place or age.

Cost of ailments

Diseases like cancer, cardiovascular ailment, chronic respiratory ailment and
diabetes are some of the major causes of deaths in India. And fighting these
diseases is getting expensive. For instance, Herceptin, one of the most
effective drug for breast cancer, costs around Rs 75,000- Rs 1 lakh for
440-milligram vial. A Cancer patient requires around 6 to 17 vials for a
reasonable treatment. Alternatively, just one cycle of Avastin - used for
treating lung and breast cancer - costs Rs 25,500, and each course of treatment
requires 5 and 10 cycles of injections. Glivec, used for the treatment of
multiple cancer, costs Rs 1.25 lakhs for a month's dose. Treating diseases of
the cardiovascular system typically costs an amount of Rs 2-3 lakhs in a city
like Mumbai. An Angioplasty can costs around Rs 1.5 lakhs-Rs 2.5 lakhs,
depending upon the type and number of stents being used, or where it is done?

The additional cost

At the same time, medical care is becoming less invasive and more costly due to
technological advances. The healthcare providers invest crores of rupees in
super-specialty equipment and robotics and pass on the cost to their patients,
indirectly. Additionally, there are incidental costs, such as, the Intensive
Care Unit (ICU) treatment for new infections, which only add to the misery of
the patients. Not everyone will be able to afford such facilities on their own
resources. Even for those who are fortunate to afford the treatment, would mean
spending several years' savings. Amid the changing economics of healthcare
business, not having any Health Insurance could be risky to one's physical as
well as financial health.

How health insurance saves

A Health Insurance acts as a protection measure of saving your finances in the
event when you or your family member needs to get hospitalized. All Health
Insurance plans come in two basic variants - Individual Insurance and Family
Floater. An Individual Health Insurance plan is a separate insurance for an
individual with defined cover. A Family Floater, on the other hand, is a Health
Insurance policy that covers an entire family and in which the limit i.e.
insurance amount or the sum assured can be utilized by any member of the family,
individually. It is a comprehensive health cover that helps individuals to
tackle increasing medical costs. Diagnosis of a disease at any point of time in
life can lead to sudden panic. The major reason behind this panic is generally
the high cost involved in getting medical treatment of some ailments. However,
if you have a comprehensive health plan, it will cover majority of those costs;
thus, relieving you from emergent financial pressure. Health Insurance plans are
available in two main categories - Individual Plans and Family Floaters.

An individual Health Insurance Policy means a separate insurance for an
individual with defined cover. A Family Floater, on the other hand, is a Health
Insurance Policy that covers an entire family and in which the limit (insurance
amount or the sum assured) can be utilized by any member of the family,
individually.

How to buy?

Most of the health insurance companies offer option to purchase the Health
Insurance Policy online, whereby, an individual can choose the type of policy
required (Individual or Family Floater), sum to assure and the amount of premium
to be paid (which can be calculated online) by providing some basic details.
After providing other general details, such as, family members (in case of
Family Floater) and contact details, one can proceed to online payments. Once
the payment is made, the hard copy of the policy is delivered on the customer's
address within a stipulated period of time. In case of confusion, a customer
also has a choice of getting assistance from the company's customer care
department to select the right insurance and proceed further, without any
hiccups.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


         Copyright 2015 Bajaj Capital Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 25, 2015 Monday

Pacific Prime Releases 2nd Article of Cost of Health Insurance Report

LENGTH: 198  words

DATELINE: New York


Bio Medicine has issued the following news release:

Pacific Prime has announced that they have launched the second article of a
three part report looking at the cost of individual international health
insurance. Titled: The Cost of Health Insurance in Top Expat Destinations,
Article 2 looks at the cost of health insurance in six top expat destinations,
which are also popular business locations.

Focusing on

Hong Kong
    Singapore
    China
    Thailand
    the UAE
    the UK

Article 2 presents an in-depth look at the cost of health insurance and
highlights information expats and business managers will find useful, including:

Premiums from 11 health insurance providers, each offering three levels of plan.

    Premiums for Single plans, plans for Couples, Families, and Retirees.
    An overview of the current state of health insurance in each of the
countries of the report.
    An in-depth analysis of the plan pricing and common outliers present
throughout the article.
    A ranking of the average cost of health insurance in the six countries
included in Article 2.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 June 15, 2014

Your Money: Get to know the market and save

SECTION: PERSONAL FINANCE

LENGTH: 942 words


With hundreds of health insurance plans to choose from, it can be difficult to
wade through all the information available and find the best plan for your
needs.

As prices spiral and consumers face bigger bills for health insurance, getting
to know the market, the range of plans on offer and the cover you need, could
help you to cushion yourself against rising costs.

The Health Insurance Authority (HIA) is the regulator of the health insurance
market. Its consumer guide to the market explains that anyone can buy private
health insurance regardless of their health status or age, and health insurers
cannot refuse to sell you cover.

''However, waiting periods may apply before benefits can be claimed, the HIA
guide said. Also, keep in mind that, if your cover lapses for more than 13
weeks, you may have to serve your waiting periods again.

Your age will not affect your insurance premium. ''The health insurance system
applying in Ireland is called community rating. In a community rated system
everyone pays the same premium for a given health insurance plan, the HIA's
guide explained. However, insurers are allowed to charge discounted prices in
some circumstances, such as for students, for example.

When choosing cover, don't forget to consider corporate plans which, for similar
cover, are typically cheaper than the products marketed to the public by health
insurers.

All consumers are entitled to buy corporate plans, but have to find them first,
as insurers will not necessarily point consumers in the direction of these
plans. The basic rule though is that if a plan is on the market, you can buy it.

**Take one family**

To give a flavour of the health insurance market, The Sunday Business Post
considered the health insurance options for a fictional consumer, Maria. Figures
are based on the Health Insurance Authority's online comparison of health
insurance plans.

However, this is only intended as an indication of prices, and individual
insurers should be contacted for full details of benefits provided. (For further
information, see healthinsurancecomparison.ie).

Maria wants to buy health insurance cover for herself, her husband and their
five-year-old daughter. She wants cover for a semi-private room in a private
hospital, and according to the HIA's online comparison, 178 plans fit the bill.
Prices per adult per year range from EUR 620 to more than EUR 2,600, so she
decides to refine her search.

She's prepared to accept an in-patient excess, but is not willing to plump for a
plan with restricted procedures. Applying these parameters whittles down her
list of possible options from 178 to 53, with the price ranging narrowing to
just under EUR 660 to slightly above EUR 2,410.

Many of the options thrown up by Maria's search are from Laya. However, she
discovers that, unlike its rivals, the insurer applies a credit charge of 3 per
cent for non-yearly payments.

As Maria looks more closely at the plans that meet her criteria, she sees major
differences in the benefits on offer and the level of excess that applies.

.....

**Six questions to ask yourself**

-- Do you want to be able to claim for hospital costs only, or for day-to-day
medical expenses too?

-- Do you need a private hospital room?

-- Do you have children, or plan to have a baby?

-- Do you have any existing medical conditions?

-- Are you willing to pay an excess in exchange for a lower premium?

-- Are you willing to accept restricted cover (eg, a selected list of hospitals)
to save money?

.....

**Question time: The alternative provider**

If you can't afford health insurance, there are cheaper alternatives available,
albeit with less cover.

HSF Health Plan has been operating in the Irish market for 65 years and is
regulated by the Health Insurance Authority (HIA).

It provides cash plans, which help families to cover the cost of day-to-day
health bills, but do not cover hospital stays or the cost of operations.

The Sunday Business Post put a number of questions to HSF about what it offers,
and here's what they said.

**How do cash plans and health insurance differ?**

Private health insurance covers in-patient costs in private hospitals, whereas
the benefits of a health cash plan are focused on everyday healthcare costs,
which often fills the gap that private health insurance doesn't cover.

**What do you cover?**

Out-patient treatment, covering GP and dental services, consultant fees, optical
treatment -- including disposable contact lenses and eye laser treatment --
physiotherapy, chiropody and a range of complementary treatments.

We also cover prescription costs, birth and adoption grants and grants for
hospital and hospice admissions.

**What do people typically claim for?**

The largest benefit claimed for is dental and optical, making up over 34 per
cent of our total claims for 2013.

**How much does it cost?**

A health cash plan is a low-cost scheme with payments starting from EUR 10.25 a
month. HSF Health Plan schemes also do not have any excess, so the amount you
claim is not reduced by the need for paying an excess.

**When did your prices last increase?**

For the first time in many years, HSF Health Plan increased premiums on some of
its plans from January 1, 2014. The last premium increase prior to that was over
ten years ago.

We do not plan to make any further adjustments in the near future.

**Do you also deal with corporate customers?**

We are finding that companies are looking more closely at health cash plans as
an alternative benefit provision. With costs increasing in the private medical
insurance market, we fully expect to see this area grow as companies have to
realign their benefit structure to make the best use of a stringent budget.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 13, 1987, Thursday, Final Edition

Front-Door Benefits

BYLINE: Steve Max, Robert M. Brandon

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A15; TAKING EXCEPTION

LENGTH: 751 words


In his column "A Back-Door Tax" [op-ed, July 21] Beryl W. Sprinkel, chairman of
the President's Council of Economic Advisers, attacks proposed legislation for
mandated employee benefits. These include health insurance, family leave policy
and advance notification of plant closings.

Characterizing such measures as "well intentioned," and "designed to show
compassion for workers," Sprinkel asserts nevertheless that they "miss their
mark . . . [imposing] hidden costs on employers, workers and consumers."

By focusing on the alleged costs and ignoring the obvious benefits, Sprinkel is
being penny-wise and pound-foolish. A good case in point is the Kennedy Minimum
Health Benefits Act.

This legislation would require all employers to provide a basic level of health
benefits for their workers. Sprinkel argues that this would increase health
insurance costs for employers. In fact, for most corporations, just the opposite
would occur.

There are nearly 30 million working Americans and their families with no health
insurance, and many millions more who are underinsured. We all pay for the cost
of their health care through higher premiums and taxes. The majority of
businesses that do provide health insurance are unfairly subsidizing the cost of
care for employees of their less responsible competitors.

By mandating health insurance coverage for all workers, most corporations would
probably have their health costs reduced, since there would be fewer uninsured
people. Further, the Kennedy bill develops a system of regional insurers that
would reduce the cost of health insurance to small businesses by 30 percent.

Sprinkel also ignores the cost to corporations and to overall productivity of
uninsured employees who become seriously ill because they don't go to the doctor
in time, or don't go at all.

His criticism of the parental leave bill also misses the mark. He exaggerates
the cost to corporations of providing unpaid leave to employees and ignores the
cost to their employees' careers of policies that do not guarantee a job after
childbirth. In fact, it is in the interest of most businesses to provide for
continuity and career advancement among their employees.

The current report of Sprinkel's Council of Economic Advisers observed of women
workers a fact that is just as true of men. "The amount and type of training
women acquire signals expectations . . . . Women who plan continuous careers are
more likely to choose apprenticeship training or make specific investments in
schooling as preparation for a specific occupation."

Measures such as guaranteed parental leave and employer-provided health
insurance make continuous and more productive careers possible for all working
people.

In attacking the Senate-passed amendment mandating advance notice of plant
closings, Sprinkel also misstates the costs. He assumes this measure would cause
plants to stay open longer than they would otherwise. In fact, corporate
decisions to close plants usually occur well before two months of the actual
closings. The issue is simply whether they will have the decency to give their
soon-to-be former employees a little warning.

Few people would dispute that advance notice is necessary to lessen the
disastrous economic and social impact of a plant closing or massive layoffs.
What is required is displaced-worker training, education, skill upgrading and
job placement. These need to be started before workers are desperately
scrambling for whatever employment they can find.

The legislation just passed by the Senate does not require the employer to
provide any training, only to give a scant 60 days' notice, in which time
municipalities, unions and private agencies can try to put programs in place. A
recent Bureau of Labor Statistics survey shows that two-thirds of mass layoffs
(50 or more workers) occur with no advance general notice. How this strengthens
the economy is not explained by Sprinkel, nor is his claim substantiated that
notice requirements would result in fewer jobs.

The three proposals Sprinkel criticizes would each provide greater security for
workers and their families. Perhaps more important, these measures would go a
long way toward guaranteeing a more productive, happy and fulfilled work force
-- one that would have greater loyalty and commitment to its employers than
currently exists.


Steve Max is economic policy director and Robert M. Brandon is Washington
director of Citizen Action, a Washington lobbying organization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1987 The Washington Post


                              313 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

Number of people covered by employer-provided health insurance shrinks

BYLINE: Chelyen Davis, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 676 words


April 13--The number of people who get health insurance through their employer
has slipped over the past decade.

A new study shows that nationally, 10 percent fewer non-elderly adults are
getting employer-based health insurance. Meanwhile, insurance premiums for those
still on their work plans have gone up, in many states more than doubling--which
researchers say is a major factor in the drop in coverage.

The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation on Thursday published the new study on health
insurance trends, breaking out the data state by state.

It found that nationally, the percentage of the non-elderly population with
employer-based insurance dropped from nearly 70 percent in 1999-2000 to almost
60 percent in 2010-2011.

Forty-seven states and the District of Columbia also saw declines in
employer-based coverage in that decade, although the results vary by state.

In Virginia, 75.2 percent of the non-elderly population was covered by employer
insurance plans in 1999-2000; by 2010-11, 65.6 percent were covered, a 9.6
percentage point drop.

The study, conducted by researchers at the State Health Access Data Assistance
Center (SHADAC) in Minnesota, found that the drop in the number of people
covered varied by income. The decline in coverage was much smaller among
high-income people, and larger among those with lower incomes.

The report says the decline in coverage over the past decade is due to several
factors, including overall decreases in employment levels and in the percentage
of employers offering health insurance coverage.

That points out a shift in the kinds of jobs added after the recession, said
Julie Sonier, deputy director at SHADAC.

Sonier said the jobs added post-recession tend to be lower-paid or positions at
smaller companies, which are less likely to offer employer-based health
insurance.

Nationally, the percentage of private companies offering health care coverage
fell from 58.9 percent to 52.4 percent over the decade, with much of the drop
coming from a decrease in the number of small companies offering coverage (which
fell from 67.7 percent to 56.3 percent).

Another major factor in the decline, Sonier said, is the rising cost of health
insurance coverage. Cost increases over the past decade have outpaced inflation,
she said.

The rising costs are due partly to technological advances--medicine can treat
more illnesses now, but new technologies can be pricey.

The cost of employer-based health insurance has more than doubled in many
states, including Virginia.

In 1999-2000, in Virginia the premium cost for a single person was $2,391 and
$6,314 for a family. By 2010-11 that cost had jumped more than 100 percent, to
$4,961 for a single person and $14,365 for a family--a 127.5 percent increase in
the family premium.

An employee's share of that cost was smaller, but still saw a similar jump.

A single person in 1999-2000 paid about $512 a year for employer insurance in
Virginia; a family paid $1,783. By 2010-11, the single person was paying
$1,098--about double, but relatively the same percentage of the total cost for
that person's 1999-2000 coverage.

Family coverage costs rose to about $4,505 in 2010-11, and families were paying
about 3.3 percentage points more of the total cost of their premiums.

Sonier said those costs have driven some companies to cease offering coverage,
and discouraged some employees from taking up their employer's coverage.

The decline began before the federal Affordable Care Act was enacted, and the
report says researchers expect employer-based health insurance to still be a
major source of coverage despite the ACA.

Sonier said that most coverage-related provisions of the ACA don't take effect
until next January. The law's requirement that individuals have health insurance
coverage could make employer-based insurance more appealing to people, she said.

shadac.org

Chelyen Davis: 540/368-5028

cdavis@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2013 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130413-FB-Number-of-people-covered-by-employer-provided-
health-insurance-shrinks-0413-20130413

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2013 The Free Lance-Star


                              314 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 12, 2013 Friday

Number of people covered by employer-provided health insurance shrinks

BYLINE: Chelyen Davis, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 676 words


April 12--The number of people who get health insurance through their employer
has slipped over the past decade.

A new study shows that nationally, 10 percent fewer non-elderly adults are
getting employer-based health insurance. Meanwhile, insurance premiums for those
still on their work plans have gone up, in many states more than doubling--which
researchers say is a major factor in the drop in coverage.

The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation on Thursday published the new study on health
insurance trends, breaking out the data state by state.

It found that nationally, the percentage of the non-elderly population with
employer-based insurance dropped from nearly 70 percent in 1999-2000 to almost
60 percent in 2010-2011.

Forty-seven states and the District of Columbia also saw declines in
employer-based coverage in that decade, although the results vary by state.

In Virginia, 75.2 percent of the non-elderly population was covered by employer
insurance plans in 1999-2000; by 2010-11, 65.6 percent were covered, a 9.6
percentage point drop.

The study, conducted by researchers at the State Health Access Data Assistance
Center (SHADAC) in Minnesota, found that the drop in the number of people
covered varied by income. The decline in coverage was much smaller among
high-income people, and larger among those with lower incomes.

The report says the decline in coverage over the past decade is due to several
factors, including overall decreases in employment levels and in the percentage
of employers offering health insurance coverage.

That points out a shift in the kinds of jobs added after the recession, said
Julie Sonier, deputy director at SHADAC.

Sonier said the jobs added post-recession tend to be lower-paid or positions at
smaller companies, which are less likely to offer employer-based health
insurance.

Nationally, the percentage of private companies offering health care coverage
fell from 58.9 percent to 52.4 percent over the decade, with much of the drop
coming from a decrease in the number of small companies offering coverage (which
fell from 67.7 percent to 56.3 percent).

Another major factor in the decline, Sonier said, is the rising cost of health
insurance coverage. Cost increases over the past decade have outpaced inflation,
she said.

The rising costs are due partly to technological advances--medicine can treat
more illnesses now, but new technologies can be pricey.

The cost of employer-based health insurance has more than doubled in many
states, including Virginia.

In 1999-2000, in Virginia the premium cost for a single person was $2,391 and
$6,314 for a family. By 2010-11 that cost had jumped more than 100 percent, to
$4,961 for a single person and $14,365 for a family--a 127.5 percent increase in
the family premium.

An employee's share of that cost was smaller, but still saw a similar jump.

A single person in 1999-2000 paid about $512 a year for employer insurance in
Virginia; a family paid $1,783. By 2010-11, the single person was paying
$1,098--about double, but relatively the same percentage of the total cost for
that person's 1999-2000 coverage.

Family coverage costs rose to about $4,505 in 2010-11, and families were paying
about 3.3 percentage points more of the total cost of their premiums.

Sonier said those costs have driven some companies to cease offering coverage,
and discouraged some employees from taking up their employer's coverage.

The decline began before the federal Affordable Care Act was enacted, and the
report says researchers expect employer-based health insurance to still be a
major source of coverage despite the ACA.

Sonier said that most coverage-related provisions of the ACA don't take effect
until next January. The law's requirement that individuals have health insurance
coverage could make employer-based insurance more appealing to people, she said.

shadac.org

Chelyen Davis: 540/368-5028

cdavis@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2013 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130412-FB-Number-of-people-covered-by-employer-provided-
health-insurance-shrinks-0412-20130412

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2013 The Free Lance-Star


                              315 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    December 3, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

U. S. health insurance costs family $ 7,000

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 102 words


A Nov. 16 letter reports that the cost of "complete health insurance" for a
person in Davenport, Iowa, is $ 850 per year.

Complete health insurance for my Pennsylvania family (three adults between the
ages of 37 and 40; two children) cost $ 577 (U.S.) for the month of November,
1991; the yearly cost is $ 6,924 (U.S.). This does not include the cost of
supplemental coverage.

Further, "complete medical coverage" does not always mean "first dollar"
coverage; if there is a hospitalization, there will be a cost due to the
deductible and copay requirement.

B. KIRK HOLMAN

California, Pa.



LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              316 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    December 3, 1991, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

U. S. health insurance costs family $7,000

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 104 words


   A Nov. 16 letter reports that the cost of "complete health insurance" for a
person in Davenport, Iowa, is $850 per year.

Complete health insurance for my Pennsylvania family (three adults between the
ages of 37 and 40; two children) cost $577 (U.S.) for the month of November,
1991; the yearly cost is $6,924 (U.S.). This does not include the cost of
supplemental coverage.

Further, "complete medical coverage" does not always mean "first dollar"
coverage; if there is a hospitalization, there will be a cost due to the
deductible and co- pay requirement.

B. KIRK HOLMAN

California, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              317 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Waco Tribune-Herald (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday

McLennan County commissioners explore health insurance alternatives

BYLINE: Regina Dennis, Waco Tribune-Herald, Texas

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 624 words


Jul. 8--County employees may save money on insuring their families after the
commissioners court approved offering some alternative health insurance plan
options to workers.

The McLennan County Commissioners Court voted to offer county employees two
alternative HMO plans that feature lower monthly premiums in exchange for
slightly higher routine medical expenses. The plans were recommended by a
nine-member committee of county officials who sought options to lower employee
family health care costs.

The two alternatives, one from Scott & White and another from First Care, will
be offered in addition to the three base plans and monthly family-rate premiums
of $874.81 and $878.47, respectively. Commissioner Kelly Snell, who chaired the
health insurance committee, projects that family health insurance premiums will
cost employees around $500.

"The thing here is we just want to give people more affordable options for their
health care so that they can still take care of their families," Snell said.

The county currently pays an insurance credit to each employee to cover the cost
of the premium through the Scott &White HMO. Employees also can opt to enroll in
First Care HMO or PPO and pay a small monthly fee.

However, health insurance premiums for employees' families currently range up to
$1,437, depending on the plan the employee is enrolled in. Even with the monthly
premium the county pays to cover the employee's health insurance, premiums for
the family can cost nearly $1,100 each month.

"The cost of health insurance has been eroding employees' paychecks," said
Commissioner Lester Gibson, who also served on the health insurance committee.
"I'm very concerned about our employees who are on our lower-tier salary."

There are some key differences in the plans. The office visit co-pay for both
alternates is $30, compared to $20 for the base plans. The alternatives also
impose deductibles -- $1,000 individual deductibles for the First Care HMO and
$1,000 individual or $2,000 family deductible for the Scott &White HMO plan --
while the base plans do not. Out-of-pocket expenses for surgery and
hospitalizations also will increase with the alternative plans.

The alternatives are being offered as health insurance costs continue to rise.
The county's Scott & White base HMO plan premium will increase by 21 percent
from $370.52 this year to $446.96 for individuals for the upcoming fiscal year.

Of the 860 county employees, 616 use the Scott and White HMO plan, 157 are
enrolled in First Care HMO, and six use the First Care PPO plan. The county
budgeted $3.6 million for employee health insurance for the 2008-09 fiscal year.

Normally, each employee would receive health insurance credits up to the lowest
individual monthly premium cost, which in this case would be the $366.68 First
Care deductible. That would mean the 616 county employees who currently use the
Scott & White base HMO insurance plan would have to bear that 21 percent
increase -- an additional $80.24 each month -- or switch to the First Care base
HMO plan or an alternative during the county's open enrollment period Aug. 3-7.

Whether the alternative plans will save the county any money on health insurance
costs remains to be seen. The commissioners court will decide next week how much
the county will pay for individuals' monthly premiums.

To see more of the Waco Tribune-Herald, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.wacotrib.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Waco Tribune-Herald, Texas
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090708-WO-COUNTY-WRKRS-HEALTH-INSURE-20090708

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WO


                       Copyright 2009 Waco Tribune-Herald


                              318 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday

New Bill Would Help Rein in Health Insurance Costs

LENGTH: 180  words

DATELINE: New York



 Atlanta: Growing Georgia has issued the following news release:



  A recently introduced bill to help lower health insurance costs for small
business owners has the backing of farmers and ranchers. Offered by Reps. Kristi
Noem (R-S.D.) and Krysten Sinema (D-Ariz.), the legislation (H.R. 246) would
repeal the annual fee on health insurance providers enacted as part of
Affordable Care Act.





 "The bill addresses one of the major concerns that farmers and ranchers have
related to health insurance - cost. The health insurance tax (HIT) has increased
health insurance costs for farmers, ranchers and other small businesses by
imposing a levy on the net premiums of health insurance companies, which is
passed on to consumers. During 2014, $8 billion of excise taxes were levied, and
$11 billion were collected in 2015 and 2016 each," American Farm Bureau
Federation President Zippy Duvall said in a letter to House members urging them
to support the bill.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday

New Bill Would Help Rein in Health Insurance Costs

LENGTH: 180  words

DATELINE: New York



 Atlanta: Growing Georgia has issued the following news release:



  A recently introduced bill to help lower health insurance costs for small
business owners has the backing of farmers and ranchers. Offered by Reps. Kristi
Noem (R-S.D.) and Krysten Sinema (D-Ariz.), the legislation (H.R. 246) would
repeal the annual fee on health insurance providers enacted as part of
Affordable Care Act.





 "The bill addresses one of the major concerns that farmers and ranchers have
related to health insurance - cost. The health insurance tax (HIT) has increased
health insurance costs for farmers, ranchers and other small businesses by
imposing a levy on the net premiums of health insurance companies, which is
passed on to consumers. During 2014, $8 billion of excise taxes were levied, and
$11 billion were collected in 2015 and 2016 each," American Farm Bureau
Federation President Zippy Duvall said in a letter to House members urging them
to support the bill.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           November 5, 2015 Thursday

Some Reading employees might face big hike in cost of health insurance

BYLINE: Don Spatz, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 512 words


Nov. 05--Reading, PA

City employees will take a huge hit in their paychecks next year, as the rising
cost of health care insurance means workers with family plans must kick in
$1,700 more for higher premium costs, city officials said Wednesday during
another budget session.

Employees with family plans now pay $94 a month as their share of the premiums,
but that will rise to $237 a month next year unless something can be changed,
city Managing Director Carole B. Snyder told City Council.

The city had said before that next year its own costs for health insurance --
including medical and prescription coverage for employees and retirees -- will
rise 19 percent or by $2.3 million.

The actual costs are rising even more, but labor contracts cap the city's
portion of any premium hike to no more than 5 percent a year. The employees pay
for anything over that through a higher monthly share of the premium costs.

However, the city bears the full cost of any premium hikes for the 236 retirees
eligible for health insurance. That means its costs for retirees will rise by
$700,000 next year, to nearly $4.6 million.

Snyder told council that the city's insurance broker, EHD, has said about half
the hikes are because employees are using insurance more, and the other half are
because of medical inflation due to requirements of the Affordable Care Act.

The city wants to offer cheaper insurance plans and has asked EHD to suggest
them, Snyder said. But she noted that the city can't change any plan across the
board without the agreement of all three unions.

The 2016 budget proposal had been $91.7 million on Oct. 1 but has been pared
down to less than $90 million. And it once needed $4.4 million from the city's
reserves to be balanced, but the council-administration talks over the past nine
sessions have cut that to $226,448.

However, the spending plan still includes a 2 mill property tax hike.

The group now is working on so-called parking lot items -- issues set aside for
more discussion later. On Wednesday the subject was the much-maligned per-capita
tax that several council members want to eliminate.

That's because only 10,000 people are paying it, less than one-fifth of the
city's adults.

At the administration's suggestion, council in 2014 had quadrupled the city
portion of the tax to $20 -- the Reading School District's portion is $10 -- so
the city could find a collector that could find the nonpayers and bill them.

The Berks Earned Income Tax Bureau now has that contract, but council noted the
bureau is still collecting from the same 10,000 people.

Snyder asked to keep the per-capita tax in place one more year so the city can
find a different collector using more effective methods to find nonpayers.

She got grudging approval from most council members after they learned the law
says if a city eliminates the tax, it cannot reimpose it.

Contact Don Spatz: 610-371-5027 or dspatz@readingeagle.com

TODAY'S SPONSOR:

___ (c)2015 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151105-RE-Some-Reading-employees-might-face-big-hike-in-
cost-of-health-insurance-1105-20151105

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2015 Reading Eagle


                              321 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    February 29, 2000, Tuesday, Home Edition

Health care costs

BYLINE: Staff

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: Business; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 38 words

This chart shows changes in the rate of inflation in the cost of

employee-sponsored health insurance plans. It should have appeared with an
article in Sunday's Section A on increasing health care costs for small
businesses.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic
HEALTH INSURANCE INFLATION
Inflation in cost for employee- sponsored health insurance tapered off in the
med-1990s, but the rate is rising again.

'87: 6.9%
'88: 18.6%
'89: 16.7%
'90: 17.1%
'91: 12.1%
 '92: 10.1%
'93: 8.0%
'94: -1.1%
'95: 2.1%
'96: 2.5%
'97: .02%
'98: 6.1%
'99: 7.3%

Source: William M. Meese, National Survey of Employer- sponsored Health Plus. /
Staff

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              322 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             March 11, 2002 Monday
                                  Late Edition

The `health insurance' furphy that the public can't afford

BYLINE: Stephen Leeder. Professor Stephen R Leeder is the dean of medicine at
the University of Sydney

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Opinion; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 988 words


Billions spent subsidising private health insurance would be far better directed
to reaffirming Medicare, writes Stephen Leeder.

RISING premiums have again shone a spotlight on private health insurance. The
proposed increase is less than the 12 per cent rise in costs of health care,
both public and private, over the period since the last increase. It is only
unexpected to those who believed that rising membership rates would stabilise or
even reduce premiums. But there is no cap or control over private health care
costs to justify such a claim. Consumer whim is unchecked. It is a small miracle
that the premium increase is not higher.

A central ambiguity resides at the heart of the health insurance debate and it
is this: Australia has a universal public health insurance system, Medicare,
underpinning the majority of health care. Yet $2.4 billion of public money is
now spent subsidising private health insurance. This ambiguity expands when
private health insurance is commended to the electorate, who demand Medicare's
continuation, as taking "pressure off the public system".

If that were the intention, the $2.4 billion would have been used to better
effect by direct investment in the public system. It is as though the Federal
Government owned Qantas and now agreed to pay for one-third of all tickets
purchased on Virgin.

But that analogy falls down in that the publicly funded system, which covers the
bulk of the "passengers", is also the "no frills" system, catering for the vast
proportion of emergency care and chronic illness services.

The private system predominantly manages elective and day-only surgery, with
additional business class comforts.

Fair enough, too: if people wish to pay for frills, fine, but should other
taxpayers pay one-third of those costs?

The ambiguity has grown because of confusion around the nature of Medicare.
However much some may wish to rewrite its original purpose to be that of a
safety net, Medicare was introduced to be universal. The idea that, unless young
people "run for [private] cover", they will have no health insurance in the
future is true only if Medicare is not there or is turned into a charity system
for the indigent. If that is not the intention, the advertising for lifetime
cover was disingenuous.

Fortunately, for the sake of equity, there is no convincing evidence that care
in the private system is superior to public system care in health outcome or
financial efficiency. Heart patients, who get more procedures in the private
hospitals, have no better outcomes.

Comparisons of the administrative costs of public and private health insurance
administration reveal a three- or fourfold higher cost than for Medicare in the
smaller multiple private health insurance companies.

The administration cost of private health insurance is now more than $700
million per annum. The lie that somehow private care is efficient and public
care wasteful is another furphy.

The government subsidy for private health insurance has had a paradoxical
consequence. The portion of total health costs ($54 billion in 1999-2000) paid
by government rose from 65.5 per cent in 1997-98 to 67.3 per cent in 1999-2000.
If pressure has been taken off anything as a result of the private health
insurance supplement, it is the private contribution to health care.

The decision to subsidise all private health insurance may have other negative
effects. Three stand out as deserving special vigilance.

First, in negotiating the next round of bilateral five-year Health Care
Agreements between the Commonwealth and each state and territory, it is
plausible that the Commonwealth will seek to recover the billions it pays for
private health insurance by decreasing the support it offers for public
hospitals. It is essential to establish whether there has been effective service
substitution if the grants to the states are to be reduced.

Increased private hospital activity for conditions that would not otherwise fall
to the public sector to treat is no reason to reduce support for public
hospitals. Other indicators, such as numbers of patients treated (they could be
treated for anything) or insurance rates are inadequate markers.

Second, there is a problem because Medicare does not cover allied health
services (physiotherapy, speech therapy) and dentistry in the community. These
services are met only by private insurance or out-of-pocket payment and are not
equitably available. This creates an inequitable and artificial niche for
private insurance.

Currently, by subsidising private health insurance, which covers dental services
to some extent, the Government provides a 30 per cent rebate for dental care
only to private health insurance holders.

As John Spencer, Professor of Social and Preventative Dentistry at Adelaide
University, has shown, the subsidy for public dental care for adults is about
$180 million while the private dental insurance rebate is about $330 million.

Third, the popularity of the private health insurance subsidies may freeze them
in their current form. If private health insurance subsidies are to be
maintained, they could be directed with better effect and preferentially to
those who at present need private health insurance most but can afford it least.
While we may aspire to expand Medicare's coverage, current realities mean that
older people in need of allied health professional care in the community may
wish to maintain private health insurance. On equity grounds, the subsidy
provided to them should be larger than that given to younger, hale and wealthy
members. Subsidisd "lifetime rating" is a convoluted way to achieve this
transfer.

The private health insurance subsidy, along with health financing arrangements
in general, as recommended by the Productivity Commission, deserves seriously to
be reviewed.

This country is affluent enough, and once had sufficient social goodwill, to
introduce Medicare. It is time to reaffirm that commitment.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2002 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Hays Daily News (Kansas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday

City to consider cap on health insurance

BYLINE: Kaley Conner, The Hays Daily News, Kan.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


Dec. 9--With the cost of health insurance coverage rising, the Hays City
Commission will be asked to limit the amount it contributes to insurance for
city employees.

At its 6:30 p.m. meeting Thursday, the commission will consider capping the
city's contribution to health insurance premiums at $9,500 per employee,
beginning in 2011.

"From a practical standpoint, when your average increase is 17 to 18 percent a
year and the citizens are being taxed for that, but yet your property values are
increasing 2 percent to 3 percent a year, at some point it becomes uneconomical
for the city to keep absorbing all those increases," City Manager Toby Dougherty
said.

For 2010, the city was presented with a 44.5-percent increase in health
insurance costs from its current provider, Preferred Health Systems.

The commission will consider contracting with Blue Cross Blue Shield of Kansas,
which has offered a full insurance policy with a cost increase of 16.7 percent.

City staff budgeted for a 9-percent increase, meaning this policy would cost 7.7
percent more than planned. The total cost of insurance per employee would be
$8,795.

Dougherty said the city also is establishing an employee wage and benefit
committee, which will make recommendations regarding health insurance issues.
This group will convene in January.

Other agenda items include:

--An ordinance repealing the city's legislation regulating solicitors and
peddlers.

--An agreement for engineering services related to sanitary sewer services at
the sports complex site.

-- Approval of an updated master plan for Hays Regional Airport.

-- The purchase of eight new bleachers for Stramel and Glassman ball fields, for
a total cost of about $21,200.

--Changes to the city's garbage collection and disposal ordinance.

--A loan agreement and award of bid for a stormwater quality improvement project
at Skyline Draw. The city received grant funding for the project through the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.

To see more of The Hays Daily News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.hdnews.net. Copyright (c) 2009, The Hays Daily News, Kan. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091209-EZ-City-to-consider-cap-on-health-insurance-1209

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EZ


                                 Copyright 2009


                              324 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Forward

                                December 5, 2003

Can America Afford Not To Provide Universal Health Care?

BYLINE: Arthur Kellermann, and Wilhelmine Miller

SECTION: Forward Forum; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1090 words


As a nation, we do many things to reduce societal risk and promote health. We
regulate the safety of cars, enforce standards to make our workplaces safer and
set limits on exposure to toxic chemicals. Fewer fatal car crashes and healthier
work and home environments allow people to live longer and healthier lives. We
need to think about the benefits of universal health insurance in the same way.

As Congress creates a prescription drug benefit for the 40 million Americans who
have coverage for hospital and physician services through Medicare, we should
keep in mind the societal costs borne by all of us because more than 43 million
Americans have no coverage for any health care. Significant costs, often hidden,
and significant risks, such as worse health and earlier death, result from the
lack of health insurance.

When our federal government considers new health and safety laws it often
conducts economic analyses to determine whether the anticipated cost of the
program or intervention is worth the reduction in health risks. We know, for
example, that people with health insurance use medical services more often and,
as a result, enjoy better health than those who lack coverage. It is therefore
reasonable to assume that if everyone had health insurance, total health
spending would be greater. It is also reasonable to assume that the uninsured
would have better health. The key question, in both instances, is: "How much?"

Not every dollar spent on extending health insurance to all would be new
spending. We already spend an average of about $100 billion annually on health
care for people who are without health insurance for all or part of a year.
About a third of this spending comes out of the pockets of people who lack, or
recently lost, their health insurance. Another $5 billion is contributed by
physicians through charity care.

Most of the money, however, comes from federal, state and local governments to
support hospitals, community health centers and other health care providers who
treat people who do not have health insurance. If everyone had health insurance
coverage during 2001, the estimated additional cost of health care that year
would have been between $34 billion and $69 billion. This would have added
between 3% and 6% to the nation's health care bill that year. By comparison, the
actual increase in health care spending in the United States that took place
between 2000 and 2001 was about $100 billion.

Would this increased spending be worth the cost?

Some of the benefits of universal coverage are hard to calculate precisely or
cannot be expressed in monetary terms - but they are valuable nonetheless.
Millions of families would gain peace of mind from knowing that a trip to the
hospital will not bring huge bills. This would improve their ability to plan for
the future, something middle-class Americans once took for granted, at least
with respect to health care expenses.

Medicare and public disability programs would probably cost less if the entire
American population had continuous coverage because people would be able to take
better care of themselves and therefore prevent or forestall the development of
major health problems in the later years of life. Our nation's hospitals, trauma
centers, emergency rooms and other health care institutions would be better able
to meet the needs of communities because they would be relieved of the financial
burden of caring for millions of uninsured Americans. The economic vitality of
our country would be increased by a healthier, happier and more productive
workforce.

Other benefits are easier to quantify. Advances in medical technology help those
with access to good health care live healthier and longer lives. Overall, people
without health insurance face a higher risk of poor health and premature death
than similar people with coverage, in part because their access to care is
compromised. On an annual basis, lack of health insurance contributes to an
estimated 18,000 needless deaths.

The Institute of Medicine's Committee on the Consequences of Uninsurance
estimates that each year lived without health insurance produces a personal
health loss, on average, of between $1,600 and $3,300 per person. When this
total is multiplied by the millions of uninsured, it equates to an annual
estimated cost to society of $65 to $130 billion - substantially more than the
probable cost of covering the uninsured. Advocates of covering the uninsured
have long argued that universal coverage is the right thing to do. This moral
argument, however, has not compelled policy makers to move forward. After
considering the magnitude of the human and economic costs of uninsurance, it
should be abundantly clear that providing universal coverage is also the smart
thing to do. Rather than arguing that we cannot afford to cover the uninsured,
it might be reasonably asked whether our nation can continue to afford not to
cover the uninsured.

Finding a politically feasible path to universal coverage will not be easy. The
political process of identifying a package of benefits and how it would be
administered will be difficult. Determining how best to spread these costs among
businesses, health care providers, taxpayers and health care consumers will be
tougher still. Nevertheless, it will be worth it.

We now know that the status quo imposes tremendous costs - not only for the tens
of millions of Americans who lack health insurance and the millions of American
families who have one or more member who is uninsured, but also for those of us
who have health insurance. The financial strain of providing uncompensated care
to the uninsured is weakening parts of our health care system that everyone
uses, insured and uninsured alike. The economic costs of uninsurance are great,
and they are not born evenly across society. The greatest burdens are born by
those who are least able to pay.

Americans are not reaping the full benefits of modern health care because so
many of our fellow citizens are denied full access to it. For the same reason
that we invest in safer cars, healthier food and less hazardous workplaces, we
should invest in everyone's health by assuring universal access to health
insurance.

Dr. Arthur Kellermann, co-chair of the Institute of Medicine's Committee on the
Consequences of Uninsurance, is director of the Center for Injury Control at
Emory University School of Medicine. Wilhelmine Miller, project co-director of
the Committee on the Consequences of Uninsurance, is a senior program officer
for the Institute of Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2003 The Forward Association, Incorporated
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           The Nikkei Weekly (Japan)

                                October 7, 2002

Seniors drain health insurance societies

LENGTH: 766 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Cost of treating elderly putting whole system in critical condition


The growing burden of medical expenses for the elderly is straining the
financial health of corporate health insurance societies.

In one instance, the president of a medical equipment leasing company in Tokyo
has begun asking his managers, whose dependents include parents aged 70 and up,
to cooperate in reducing medical expenses. In addition to being president of the
company, he is also chairman of a health insurance society, which has 1,400
members, including his employees.

In addition to raising the upper limit of health insurance premium rates to 9.5%
from 8.8% of employees' monthly salary in April, he sharply elevated the level
at which patients can begin receiving refunds for medical payments.

The main cause of the deteriorating financial health of such societies is
payments to the health insurance system for the elderly. The existing system
requires a total of 5,200 health insurance societies, government health
insurance plans, mutual benefit societies of civil servants and other public
health insurance organizations to equally share medical costs for senior
citizens aged 70 or older.

In fiscal 2001, the elderly racked up 11 trillion yen ($90 billion) in medical
expenses, 7.1 trillion yen of which was shouldered by these organizations. The
rest came from government subsidies and the patients themselves.

The medical equipment firm's health insurance society contributed 83 million yen
in fiscal 2001, compared with actual medical expenses of 26 million yen for
senior citizen dependents shouldered by the insurance society.

Under the medical insurance system for the elderly, health insurance societies
with a below-average ratio of elderly members are required to pay more than the
medical costs these members actually incur. The ratio of elderly members to
total members of corporate health insurance societies averages 2.7%, while the
ratio of the national health insurance plan stands at 26.2%.

The society of the Hitachi Ltd. group, which has 490,000 members, contributed 30
billion yen - one-third of which was actually used for medical expenses for the
senior citizens. The insurance group had to close 10 of its 21 hotel facilities
last August to cut costs, and sold two others.

The health insurance system for the elderly began during Japan's high economic
growth era. In 1969, Tokyo and Akita prefectural governments began providing
free medical services, and local governments across the country immediately
followed suit. In 1973, the central government also began its own free service
plan.

Medical costs for senior citizens began rising sharply in the 1970s. Spending in
fiscal 1974 jumped 55.1% from a year earlier and 30.3% the following year. The
current health insurance system for the elderly was introduced in 1983 to
prevent the national health insurance plan from going bankrupt.

Takeshi Shimomura, vice chairman of the National Federation of Health Insurance
Societies, requested at a Sept. 5 board meeting that a task force be set up to
study the matters related to the legal basis for member societies that are
required to contribute funds to the health insurance system for the elderly. His
request was accepted.

"The legal rationale for these contributions is unclear," Shimomura said. "We
may file a lawsuit if our team finds the payments to be illegal."

The federation has 1,700 corporate health insurance societies nationwide. About
80% suffer from deficits primarily due to contributions to the health insurance
system for the elderly and other factors, and their frustration is rising.

The Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry is considering creating a new health
insurance system for the elderly. The ministry is studying whether to have
societies with higher premium income and younger members extend financial help
to those with lower incomes and older members.

But the fundamental problem remains unsolved: Wealthier societies are required
to continue helping the cash-strapped national health insurance plan.

Members of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party and others are insisting that the
government use more tax revenues to finance the health insurance system. This
idea may be accepted by corporate health insurance societies, but will likely be
opposed by taxpayers.

Health insurance systems have only three sources of funds - tax revenue, premium
income and patient spending.

"There will be no way to spread the health insurance burden fairly unless taxes
and premiums, including pension premiums, are discussed together as an
integrated whole," said Professor Shuzo Nishimura of Kyoto University.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc.


                              326 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           December 26, 2013 Thursday

Dubai Health Insurance Law Will Make Market Competitive

LENGTH: 838  words


The Dubai government's recently-passed mandatory health insurance law will make
the market more competitive and will help boost employee productivity, according
to experts.
"Dubai's mandate making health insurance compulsory is a very positive step,"
said Ashok Sardana, managing director, Continental Group.


"It will help provide for a better level of care for the residents of Dubai and
will help the market grow."
With the new law coming into effect in early 2014, many major local insurance
firms and healthcare providers are ramping up their offers.
It has also spurred players like Abu Dhabi-based Al Noor Hospitals Group to
expand into the Dubai market.
While Dubai's insurance market is extremely competitive, with major players
dominating the scene, Sardana said that the new law will not phase out the
smaller players.
"The market is big enough for everyone," he said.
"However, we will see big and established players benefit more as they will be
able to provide a better quality of service and value due to the established
infrastructure."
BENEFITS TO OUTWEIGH COSTS FOR EMPLOYERSAccording to the new law, employers will
have to bear the costs of providing their staff with medical insurance. The
Dubai Health Authority (DHA) has set a two-year deadline to roll-out the health
insurance scheme across the emirate.
As per the law, companies with 1000 or more employees will have to cover their
staff before the end of October 2014 while those with 100 to 999 employees have
until the end of July 2015. Firms with less than 100 employees will need to
provide health insurance to their staff before the end of June 2016.
All spouses, dependents and domestic workers will also have to be covered by
June 2016, the DHA said.
It also assured the employers that such a move would only have a "minimum
impact" in terms of cost.
"On an average, health insurance costs 1.5 per cent of the monthly salary. For
example, if an employer pays Dhs10,000 per month in salaries, if he adds Dhs150
per month, it covers the cost of health insurance," said Dr Haider Al Yousuf,
director of Health Funding at DHA.
"This is a minimum impact, adequate benefit plan; clearly the benefits outweigh
the minimum costs involved. The scheme protects both employers and employees
from unforeseen health care costs that can arise out of an illness or an
emergency."
Sardana agreed that the compulsory health cover for employees will prove
positive in the long-term.
"While employers who have previously not provided employees with health
insurance will have to bear the cost they will benefit from a boost in
productivity and better morale," he said.

"It is a competitive market and I am sure we will see the insurance companies
come out with affordable options while maintaining good benefits creating a
win-win for both."
The new law will also be beneficial in further utilising healthcare services in
the country since hospitals will be able to widen their patient base to include
lower income groups as well.
"At the moment our clients fall under the middle and upper class insurance
categories," said Salim Al Maamary, CEO of Al Tadawi Medical Centre.
"But with health insurance being made mandatory by DHA, insurance companies will
be encouraged to lower premiums which will enable us to take everyone on board."

He said that mandatory health insurance will particularly benefit labourers due
to the nature of their work.
"Judging from the service provider prospective it is a sense of security for
patients to know that they are covered medically rather than being surprised
with exorbitant medical bills when they most need it," he said.
GROWING MARKETA Markaaz report released this year, revealed that compulsory
health insurance has driven up the value of the GCC health insurance industry to
$4.69 billion in terms of premium volumes.
Population growth and increased awareness of health issues have contributed
further to the growth of the industry.
Despite robust growth rates in recent years, the report found that insurance
penetration in the region is still low owing to the transient nature of
expatriates and a lack of awareness.
The Gulf region has a market size of $16.3 billion in terms of premium volume
but had an insurance penetration of just 1.14 per cent in 2012 as compared to
the global average of 6.5 per cent.
However, this is gradually changing, the report said. The industry witnessed a
compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of about 18 per cent between 2006 and 2012,
compared to the global CAGR of just 4.37 per cent during the same period.
With strong potential for growth in the GCC, the report forecasts the insurance
industry to be worth $28 billion by 2015 and touch $40 billion by 2017.
"The Gulf has always been an attractive market for medical insurance due to the
strong expat population," said Sardana.
"We do have a good selection of international providers already offering medical
insurance products and we will continue to see more international companies
entering the market."© 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Austin Daily Herald, Minn.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 10, 2013 Wednesday

Locals wait to hear more on MNsure

BYLINE: Trey Mewes, Austin Daily Herald, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 559 words


April 10--As Minnesota makes progress on its own health insurance exchange,
local small businesses wait to find out more on the upcoming health insurance
marketplace.

Lawmakers created the marketplace, called MNsure, last month amid a contentious
debate over rising costs of healthcare. The marketplace is touted as a
one-stop-shop for individuals, families and small businesses looking for
insurance plans, and the measure comes as health reform under the Affordable
Care Act begins next year.

Yet many are waiting for more information before deciding whether to use MNsure,
and some are concerned it could cause a major increase to claim costs for all
Minnesotans.

"I'm still kind of checking on it to wait and see how it's going to affect us,"
said Ron Whalen, owner of Whalen Automotive. Whalen and his son are the only
full-time employees at the auto repair shop, but neither gets his insurance
through the business. Whalen said his insurance agent isn't even sure how MNsure
will work, as insurance companies have until May 17 to submit plans to be sold
on the health insurance marketplace.

Though MNsure won't be open until this October, the state health insurance
exchange will have several features ahead of its federal counterpart, including
a way for residents to directly pay their insurance companies as opposed to
through his or her employer, which lessens administrative work for businesses.

Minnesota is one of 17 states to create their own health insurance exchange,
while the rest are allowing federal officials to create state-level
marketplaces.

"Our issue was, it's going to happen, so did we want it to be a Minnesota-based
program or a federal program?" said Rep. Jeanne Poppe, DFL-Austin.

Yet some businesses and officials are concerned over cost impact of MNsure and
similar marketplaces. A recent study found medical claim costs could raise by
about 19 percent for Minnesota alone by 2017 under the health care reform, and
32 percent nationwide.

Claims costs are the main driver of health insurance premiums. The projected
higher claim costs are partly due to sicker people joining the pool.

The Obama administration says the study ignores cost-relief strategies in the
plan and the potential price-cutting impacts of competition.

Yet those costs are what several local businesses and business officials
discussed with legislators last month before MNsure passed, according to Sandy
Forstner, executive director of the Austin Area Chamber of Commerce.

"There's fees in there that we were concerned about that will be assessed on the
premiums," he said.

As the marketplace shapes up, more people will look to see whether MNsure will
be able to save them money. Many business owners said it was too early to tell
what would happen, or they didn't know enough about MNsure to make an educated
decision.

Then there are some business owners like John Deyo, of ViDeyo Arts, who gets
insurance through his wife's job at Austin Public Schools. He may not have to
find out more about MNsure, as the marketplace doesn't apply to businesses or
organizations with more than 100 employees.

"I really don't get too up in arms about it," he said.

--The Associated Press contributed to this report.

___ (c)2013 Austin Daily Herald (Austin, Minn.) Visit the Austin Daily Herald
(Austin, Minn.) at www.austindailyherald.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130410-1AU-Locals-wait-to-hear-more-on-MNsure-20130410

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AU


                       Copyright 2013 Austin Daily Herald


                              328 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                          January 30, 1991, Wednesday

EMPLOYERS OPPOSE BILLS THAT WOULD INCREASE HEALTH BENEFIT COSTS

BYLINE: AVIVA FREUDMANN; Journal of Commerce Staff

SECTION: INSURANCE, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 584 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Employers are bracing for a series of bills that aim to shift more health
insurance costs to private companies, employer representatives say.

Corporate executives are worried about the bills, expected in the current
session of Congress, that "nibble around the edges" of employers' health
insurance plans, according to the executive director of a large employers' roup.

For example, there might be bills to extend the scope of the law that requires
employers to offer health insurance to former employees, said Mark Ugoretz,
executive director of the Erisa Industry Committee, which represents 130 large
employers.

There may be other proposals to shift more of the costs of health insurance to
employers, Mr. Ugoretz said in an interview on Tuesday.

In addition to such immediate concerns, employers are gearing up to fight
longer-term battles over proposed national health insurance. Companies say that
such a plan is unlikely to clear Congress this year.

The latest call for national health insurance was voiced on Tuesday by Rep.
Marty Russo, D-Ill., a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. Rep. Russo
advocates a "single-payer" health insurance system in which the sole insurer
would be the federal government.

Rep. Russo proposed financing the plan by increasing payroll taxes and personal
and corporate income taxes. The proposal would essentially remove employers and
health insurers from the business of providing health insurance, a spokesman
said.

Employers are not particularly eager to get out of that business, especially if
they will continue to pay for it, said a representative of the Employee Benefits
Policy Association, a Washington-based policy group.

Employers are also skeptical about government's ability to provide coverage any
more reasonably than the private sector does, she added.

If employers are forced to bear the burden of extending coverage to non-
employees who lack insurance, one likely outcome is a reduction in the benefits
they offer their own employees and future retirees, Mr. Ugoretz said.

Increases in corporate taxes in order to insure non-employees could result in
employers "either reducing the package they offer their own employees or moving
manufacturing and jobs offshore," Mr. Ugoretz said.

Employers fear that the government will design a national health plan and then
try to shift the costs to private employers, agreed James Klein, deputy
executive director for the Association of Private Pension and Welfare Plans,
which also represents companies.

The government is already trying to shift some of the cost of Medicare insurance
to employers, Mr. Klein said. Employers worry that a similar process will occur
in general health insurance.

Proposals to increase taxes or increase employer health costs in other ways "do
not reflect the reality of business or of labor," Mr. Ugoretz said. ''They are
likely to have the same reaction as Scud missiles: They have little military
value but still cause some damage."

Employers who do not now offer health insurance are less likely to do so if
their costs are increased through higher taxes, he said.

An alternative way to approach the problem of health care access for the
uninsured is to reduce or eliminate the income tax exemption that employees
receive on the value of employer-paid health insurance, Mr. Ugoretz said.

The business group does not advocate this approach, but notes that it is one way
to raise revenue to pay for the uninsured, he added.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              329 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           August 10, 1994 Wednesday

HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS TIPPED TO FALL UNDER PLAN

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 421 words


KEYWORD-HIT Health insurance costs tipped to fall under plan CANBERRA: Private
health insurance premiums and private hospital costs could fall after the
Federal Government backed a new health industry payment plan yesterday. The
private hospital and health insurance industries have agreed on a new form of
hospital payment based on case-mix classifications of illnesses. This could mean
cheaper operations , better control of escalating medical costs and a boost to
private health insurance numbers. In a case-mix system, private insurers pay
hospitals for what they actually do. Patients are classified by their condition
and treatment needs and arranged in diagnostic-related groups with others whose
treatment would cost about the same in hospital resources . Hospitals are then
paid according to how many people they treat in each group. Australian Private
Hospitals Association executive director Greg Herring said the plan would mean
better equity, better cost control and a better deal for patients. Dr Herring
said intensive care and operating room procedures would be funded separately
from the diagnostic groups. ""It's certainly more flexible," Dr Herring said.
""It will encourage efficiency in hospitals . . . we hope the cost of health
insurance will come down." A spokeswoman for Federal Health Minister Carmen
Lawrence said the Minister was pleased with the agreement which would have full
government support. She said the plan empowered patients to make more informed
choices about which hospital would treat them and force hospitals to offer
better deals. The spokeswoman said Dr Lawrence, who was attending a Cabinet
meeting in Perth, believed the agreement would create savings for both patients
and hospitals, cutting premiums and boosting competition. With government
endorsement, details of the American-style payment system could be available by
October, be in place by April 1995 and be in full operation by July 1998. Dr
Lawrence will give a submission to Cabinet this month, detailing ways in which
the Government could reform the health industry to be more responsive to
patients' needs. It is understood the case-mix plan will be part of Dr
Lawrence's submission. The Australian Medical Association yesterday gave the
idea support in principle but stopped short of endorsing it. Australian Health
Insurance Association chief executive Russell Schneider said hospitals would
become more specialised and the quality of health care would increase. He said
the rate of premiums would stabilise.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1994 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              330 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                     August 14, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association: Arkansans Now Have a Quick and Easy Way
to Find Out if They will Get a Break on Their Health Insurance Plan

LENGTH: 277  words


New Delhi, Aug. 14 -- Thousands of Arkansans are likely to be eligible for help
with their health insurance costs, in the form of a advanced premium tax credit,
when they start shopping for a health plan beginning October 1.



Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue Shield recently developed a simple online tool to
help Arkansans determine if they are likely to qualify for federal tax credits
(often called subsidies) to help them lower the cost of their health insurance
premiums.

"With many people unsure about whether they will qualify for help with their
health insurance costs, we wanted to provide an easy way for them to learn if
they are likely eligible to receive low-cost or even free health care coverage,"
said Karen Raley, vice president of Communications & Product Development. "We
expect more than 500,000 Arkansans will qualify for assistance, and as a
Arkansas' leading health insurer, we want to help Arkansans stay informed of
their options.

Anyone can visit arkansasbluecross.com, select the "Do I Qualify for a Tax
Credit" link and enter their annual household income and household size to find
out if they are likely to qualify for free or low-cost health insurance. To be
eligible for an advance premium tax credit, households must not have coverage
through an employer and must earn 400 percent or less of the federal poverty
level. For example, a household of four, earning $94,000, would be just under
400 percent of the federal poverty level and would qualify for a tax credit.
After using the online tool, visitors can elect to sign up for more information
related to the health care law and new plan offerings as the information becomes
available.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times Herald (California)

                             March 7, 2015 Saturday

Thompson brings back health care access bill

BYLINE: By Rachel Raskin-Zrihen

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 557 words


Everything costs more in the Bay Area, which is why one-size-fits-all subsidies
under the new health care law are leaving too many still unable to afford health
insurance, U.S. Rep. Mike Thompson says. It's why he and Rep. Anna G. Eshoo
(D-Silicon Valley) reintroduced a bill on Friday to address this.

The measure was introduced at the last Congress, which ended before members
could consider it, Thompson's spokesman said.

The Fair Access to Health Care Act would expand the eligibility for premium tax
credits for people living in high-cost areas who buy health insurance through
the federal and state Affordable Care Act exchanges.

The subsidies now offered through the Affordable Care Act - Obamacare - are
helping millions of low to middle-income Americans buy private health insurance
with subsidies adjusted to their income level. Still, Eshoo said in a statement,
"There are others in high-cost areas like those in my home district in Silicon
Valley who cannot benefit because the threshold to qualify for subsidies does
not account for the cost of living.

"The Fair Access to Health Act ties health insurance subsidies to the cost of
living of a geographic area instead of to the national federal poverty level. In
doing so, we can expand access to health insurance and improve our nation's
health."

Thompson explains that in many Bay Area communities, the cost of living far
exceeds the national average.

"A middle class income means different things in different parts of the country
and that's why the income thresholds set by the ACA need to take cost of living
into account," he said. "With qualifying income levels set across-the-board,
many hard-working families in high-cost areas like ours don't qualify for
subsides and therefore can't get affordable insurance. This bill will help make
health insurance affordable, no matter where someone lives."

The law now allows those making between 138 and 400 percent of the federal
poverty level to qualify for premium tax credits to help them buy health
insurance through the ACA's exchanges. At this level, an individual making up to
$45,960 and a family of four making up to $94,200 qualify for premium tax
credits.

This income threshold, however, doesn't take into account the cost of living for
different geographic areas, the legislators said.

"A family living in New York City or San Francisco is treated the same as a
family living in a small town in South Carolina or Texas," they said in their
statement. "The Fair Access to Health Care Act would allow the premium tax
credits offered through the ACA to be increased proportionally based on an
area's cost of living."

Under the proposed new calculation measures, a family of four in Solano County
earning up to $109,743 and an individual earning up to nearly $54,000 could
qualify for a subsidy, as could the same size family in the San
Francisco-Oakland-Fremont area earning up to $125,757 and an individual earning
about $61,000.

In Napa County, a family of four earning up to $116,808 and individuals earning
up to$56,990 could qualify, they said.

The new health insurance law already accounts for higher cost-of-living in
Alaska and Hawaii to determine subsidy eligibility. The Fair Access to Health
Care Act would provide similar adjustments to the other 48 states, Thompson and
Eshoo said.

Call Rachel Raskin-Zrihen at 707-553-6824

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                            February 5, 2017, Sunday

What's needed in ACA reform

BYLINE: Victor Grigoraci

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. P7A

LENGTH: 698 words


This is not a discussion of the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as
Obamacare. This is a comment on how to make the "new improved Trumpcare fairer
to all individuals who pay health insurance premiums and medical expenses, by
permitting a full personal income tax deduction for such out-of-pocket costs.

Having said that, here is a brief summary of the current deductibility (and
taxation) of health insurance premiums and medical expenses for federal and,
sometimes, state income tax purposes - which has nothing to do with Obamacare.

If an employer pays health insurance premiums as a plan benefit for an employee,
it is deductible by the employer and not taxable income to the employee. If an
employer pays medical expenses or reimburses an employee as a plan benefit, in
general, such expenses are deductible by the employer and not taxable income to
the employee.

If an individual has out-of-pocket health insurance premiums and/or medical
expenses, such amounts may be deductible as an itemized deduction for federal
income tax purposes, if they exceed 10 percent of adjusted gross income. Most
persons over 65 have a 7.5 percent limit. Such costs are not deductible for West
Virginia income tax purposes. (There are special federal and state income tax
rules regarding deductibility of long-term care insurance.)

A self-employed individual with self-employed income (including a Sub S
corporation shareholder/employee) is allowed to deduct health insurance premiums
for both federal and state income tax purposes against gross income. Health
insurance premiums can include Medicare insurance premiums in most cases.
Medical expenses fall under the 10 percent or 7.5 percent limit discussed above.

The crux of the matter is that individual taxpayers are not equally and fairly
treated, i.e., taxed or benefited. For example, an employer that pays 100
percent of health insurance premiums (a rarity) favors its employees, compared
to an employer who only pays, say, 60 percent or even 80 percent and, many
times, none. Plus all health insurance plans are not created equally as to
coverage benefits, copays and deductibles. How fair is all this?

It seems to me in all this debate about repealing and replacing/repairing
Obamacare, one singular important goal should be to put individual taxpayers on
a "level paying field. That is, those who are not taxed are ahead of those who
have out-of-pockets costs.

My simple suggestion is to allow all individual taxpayers to deduct
out-of-pocket health insurance premiums and medical expenses as a direct
deduction from gross income.

This will cost the government - I don't know how much - but this is a reasonable
approach to give parity to individuals regarding health insurance premiums and
medical expenses, and could even make the "new improved Trumpcare more
acceptable.

I expect you know that federal taxable income starts with gross income, less
deductible adjustments (including health insurance premiums as discussed above
for those considered self-employed), less itemized deductions (which could
include health insurance and medical expenses) or standard deduction, less
personal exemptions.

If full deductibility could be provided, there are possible income tax cost
offsets to the government by eliminating Archer Medical Savings Accounts,
Flexible Spending Accounts, Health Savings Accounts - these will not be needed.
A reduction of the standard deduction might be possible since, presumably, some
measure of medical costs are included therein.

There are proposals to reduce the corporate federal income tax rate from the top
35 percent to perhaps 15, 20 or 25 percent. If so, full deductibility of health
insurance premiums and medical expenses could be factored in to absorb the tax
cost of providing deductibility. There are also federal revenue raising
proposals on multinationals that could be helpful in offsetting tax costs in
this regard.

Full deductibility of health insurance premiums and medical expenses for income
tax purposes could be the hallmark of Trumpcare. I therefore ask President
Donald Trump and his team to give full consideration of this suggestion.

Victor Grigoraci is a certified public accountant in Charleston.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Charleston Newspapers


                              333 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Southland Times (New Zealand)

                             March 27, 2017 Monday

Boomers face insurance dilemma

BYLINE: ROB STOCK

SECTION: BUSINESS; NATIONAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 377 words


The average health insurance policy holder now pays $2210 a year for their
cover, but for ageing baby boomers the average cost is $3765.

People buy health insurance to avoid having to wait for treatment in public
hospitals, but the price rises as policyholders age and are more likely to make
claims for the likes of hip, knee and eye operations.

But Canstar says baby boomers ( those born between 1946 and 1964) who have opted
to buy health insurance are feeling the pinch as a combination of increasing
claims and medical inflation drives premiums up.

"There is no doubt that baby boomers are feeling the pinch when it comes to the
rising cost of health insurance," said Canstar general manager Jose George.

"Although an overwhelming majority of our older generation liked the peace of
mind health insurance provides, unfortunately two in five of them will sacrifice
spending in other areas in order to be able to pay their premiums," George said.

There's a crunch point where health insurance premiums seem to breach
policyholders' comfort limit.

"As the average cost of health insurance reaches $2210 per year, over half of
people think it is becoming too expensive," George said.

Premiums were now so high that 32 per cent of baby boomers had reduced their
cover to keep the costs of premiums down, and 45 per cent had restricted cover
because broader cover was too expensive.

"At first glance, our older generation is paying more in terms of premiums
despite making a similar number of claims as the younger age groups per year,"
George said.

"However, the claims they make are three times more likely to be for serious
illness."

As people age, they find it gets harder to shift between insurers, who will
generally exclude cover for pre-existing conditions.

"This may also explain why baby boomers are three times more likely to stay with
their insurer due to pre- existing conditions," George said.

For the second year running Canstar named Southern Cross Healthcare best for
overall customer satisfaction. Nib, Sovereign and UniMed ranked joint
second.Southern Cross and UniMed were judged by customers to have the clearest
policies.

Southern Cross is owned by its policyholders, unlike many of the other health
insurers which are owned by profit-seeking shareholders.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Straight-talking Leo must come clean on UHI cost

BYLINE: Sara Burke

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 841 words


HEALTH minister Leo Varadkar is known for his straighttalking. But he is not
being totally candid in relation to the cost of his own government's Universal
Health Insurance (UHI) policy. He is choosing not to publish detailed costings
presented to him on May 21, 2015, which shows the Government's model is overly
expensive.

The ESRI costings, seen by the Irish Independent, reveal that Government's
flagship health project of UHI as promised in the Programme for Government would
cost between 3.5pc and 10.7pc more than the current system.

Critically, they find that the main drivers of the high costs would be the
insurance companies' profits and the fact that there would be multiple payers
for healthcare in the form of competing health insurance companies.

According to the ESRI, the Government's proposed model of UHI would cost between
(EURO)666m and (EURO)2.05bn more than the current health system.

This UHI model of competing private insurance companies was first proposed in
Fine Gael's Fair Care policy by James Reilly in 2010.

It was the premier health commitment in the 2011 Programme for Government and
was restated in the Government's White Paper on Universal Health Insurance
published on 1 April 2014.

However, the White Paper delayed the implementation from the original date of
2016 to 2019.

The ESRI costings looked at different possible 'baskets' of care, in other
words, what would be covered under the proposed UHI model. Depending on what was
in the basket, the cost would be between 3.5pc and 10.7pc more than what was
paid from all sources of health financing, based on 2013 figures.

Basket one would cover GP services, mother and infant care, hospital and
rehabilitation services. Basket two includes these, as well as boarder primary
care services, while basket three would cover all of these plus the price of
drugs.

Another report on the cost of UHI premiums was carried out by KPMG for the
Health Insurance Authority.

This was also submitted to the health minister in May and puts the price range
of universal health insurance between (EURO)2,197 and (EURO)3,201 for every
adult per year, with an additional 15pc cost for children and students.

When the White Paper on UHI was published in 2014, the Department of Health
estimated the standard package of UHI would cost Leo (EURO)1,600. Subsequently,
the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform criticised the UHI plan,
estimating it could cost an additional (EURO)5bn and risk the economic stability
of the country.

The two reports presented to the Health Minister last month are very politically
inconvenient.

They quite clearly show that the Government's model of UHI is too expensive and
unworkable.

Its UHI model was the dream child of James Reilly, who blundered his way through
the health ministry until he was removed from there a year ago. However, Mr
Reilly is still deputy leader of Fine Gael and closely aligned to Taoiseach Enda
Kenny. Mr Kenny in turn remains faithful to Fine Gael's health insurance plan,
which other Government TDs have failed to understand or interrogate.

Health Minister. Varadkar Mr Varadkar has distanced himself from universal
health insurance since becoming Health Minister.

He uses the term "universal healthcare" at every opportunity. Last January, he
promised to "complete the costings analysis (of UHI) and revert to Government
with a roadmap for next steps".

But he has yet to be straight with the public in relation to the Government's
now defunct health policy.

Tánaiste Joan Burton has been making noises critical of her own Government's
health policy, with the trite message of "we want a better health service... we
want an affordable health insurance system" indicating that Labour's stance is
now one of universal healthcare through a combination of tax and social
insurance.

Mr Varadkar has also indicated a preference for tax and insurance, alongside
free GP care, as the stepping stone to universal healthcare. However, delivering
universal healthcare would require additional taxes to meet unmet needs, on
which the political silence is deafening.

The ESRI costings presented to Government concludes that "for most scenarios the
cost of the White Paper model (of universal health insurance delivered through
competing private insurers) ... exceeds costs to address unmet need in a
universal system".

In other words, it would be cheaper to provide universal access to healthcare
for all citizens in any other model than the Government's current plan.

Both reports prove that Fine Gael and Labour have wasted more than four years on
a false promise of delivering universal healthcare through a fundamentally
flawed model.

Now that they know their mistake, the least that the Government can do is come
clean, publish the costings and be honest with the public as to what actually is
its health policy in the run-up to the next election.

The ESRI costings presented to the Government effectively conclude that it would
be cheaper to provide universal access to healthcare for all citizens in any
other model than the Coalition's current plan

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Health Minister Leo Varadkar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                             April 18, 2016 Monday

Mul Mantra

LENGTH: 610 words

DATELINE: Goa


Goa, April 18 -- Medical costs and the complexity of diseases keep increasing by
the day. A minor surgery can cost you anywhere between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1,00,000
while a cardiac treatment can cost you Rs 5 lakh, depending on the city and
hospital you choose. One way to handle this rising cost is by taking a health
insurance policy in your name. In India, there are more than 25 companies
offering various health insurance policies. However, most of these policies are
complex in nature and one plan never fits all. Hence, it is very important to
note that you have to understand your individual needs in order to choose the
right insurance plan. Here are a few points that will help you do this.

Company: There are 28 general insurance companies in India that offer health
insurance plans. It is very important to know the company's background,
management, network of hospitals, claim process (in-house or third party) and
claim settlement ratio before choosing the right plan. It is best to choose a
general insurance company for your health insurance, rather than a company that
offers life and general insurance. This is because the cost for health insurance
policies is higher when life insurance companies offer them.

Inclusions and Exclusions: It is very important to note that pre-existing
diseases are not covered during the initial years of the policy. Also, there are
a few medical procedures like dental surgery, hernia, etc. which are excluded in
the first few years. So take a close look at the list of excluded diseases
before finalizing your health insurance plan.

Renewal age: Most PSU companies and certain public insurance companies provide
medical insurance policies with a renewal age of up to 70 or 80 years. It is to
be noted that diseases may increase with old age and so, medical costs may be
higher. Hence, it is important to have medical insurance at an older age.

Coverage: If you are unmarried, it is better to take an individual policy.
Health insurance policies offer a provision to add new family members at a later
stage. If you are married with kids, then it is best to opt for a family floater
policy that will cover you, your spouse and your kids. It is ideal to have a
separate senior citizen policy for your parents, if they have crossed 60 years
of age. This is because the cost of a family floater would be decided on the
basis of the highest age of the person in the family and hence, taking such a
policy with a senior citizen in it would skyrocket your cost.

No Claim Bonus: No claim bonuses will be offered by insurance companies in two
different ways. Few of them will offer it to increase the sum assured every
year, while few companies offer it as a discount in premium. Choose the one
which increases the coverage instead of the discount in premium as the cost of
medication increases on a yearly basis.

Cost: Ideally, the cost of the policy should be given least importance while
buying medical insurance. If the policy provides you all the benefits and if the
cost is a little higher, it is ideal to look at the cost benefit analysis and to
take the same as it is worthwhile to pay the cost for the benefit you get. So
don't compromise on service standards even if you pay extra premium for the
same.

To conclude, save, invest, or do whatever you want, but remember that there can
be no dispute over the need for health insurance. It offsets the impact of
rising healthcare costs and gives you coverage when you most need it.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Herald Goa. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            December 3, 1995 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

Changes needed on insurance - Epworth chief

SECTION: LIFE; Epworth Hospital - Display Advertising Feature; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 454 words


THE Federal Government must take steps to reward people prepared to fund their
health care through private insurance, according to the chief executive at
Epworth Hospital, Denis Hogg.

Mr Hogg says Australian taxpayers are being saved millions of dollars by those
who choose to maintain their private health insurance cover. At the same time,
those with health insurance are helping the Federal Government by keeping the
hospitals it funds readily available for patients with the greatest financial
need.

He says the Federal Government should reinstate the daily payment to private
hospitals to cover part of the cost of patient care. "If our patients chose to
depend on the public hospital system for treatment, the Federal Government would
be meeting the full costs, so some contribution to their care in the private
sector is both fair and equitable."

Another alternative is for the Federal Government to rebate part of health
insurance costs, particularly to familiies in the lower income sector.

It is clear that the recent Federal Government initiatives, known as the
Lawrence Reforms, are not helping combat the falling level of health insurance,
he says.

A recent survey conducted by the Australian Private Hospitals Association showed
that nearly 70 per cent of those who dropped their health insurance cover in the
past two years did so because it was too expensive.

The Federal Government has consistently stated that the main reason people
dropped out of health insurance was because of out-of-pocket expense, the
difference between the insurance fund benefit and the actual cost of
hospital-based treatment.

Yet, the APHA survey showed that only eight per cent cited this reason for
abandoning their health insurance.

"The Federal Government has clearly got it wrong. It is the absolute cost of
health insurance that is really doing the damage."

There is a popular misconception that private hospitals cannot provide levels of
treatment compared with the public sector, Mr Hogg says. "This is definitely not
the case with Epworth, which is on a par with major public hospitals and
provides more sophisticated treatment than many of them can achieve.

"For example, Epworth has an accident and emergency centre accredited by the
Health and Community Services Department in Victoria to treat time-critical
patients.

"Our intensive care unit is equal to any in Victoria and our cardiac-surgery
program is the biggest in the state, either in the public or private sectors."

The levels of expert care provided in hospitals such as Epworth is supported by
the APHA national survery. Forty-six per cent of those surveyed preferred care
in private hospitals, opposed to only 28 per cent who favored public hospitals,
Mr Hogg points out.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo Denis Hogg: ``The Federal Government has clearly got it wrong''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1995 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

REINING IN HIGH COSTS SHOULD BE NEXT BIG THING IN HEALTH CARE

BYLINE:  by ROBERT KRAIG

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 702 words


Endless scheming by conservative politicians to sabotage the Affordable Care Act
is distracting us from one of the most vexing problems facing Wisconsin:
excessive health care costs.

Conservatives have made health care the Northern Ireland of American politics, a
bloody and perpetual conflict where no one wins. We are frozen in time by
conservative intransigence, fighting the fight of 2010 over and over again,
rather than moving forward to tackle out-of-control health care costs.

Health care hyperinflation matters a great deal. To be priced out of health care
is as damaging to freedom as the outright denial of coverage or access to
treatment.

As high as health care costs are across the United States, twice as high as any
other advanced industrial country, the situation is even worse in Wisconsin. The
2016 Wisconsin Health Insurance Cost Ranking Report, recently released by
Citizen Action of Wisconsin, documents the scale of the problem. Since 2000,
health insurance premiums and deductibles in Wisconsin have more than tripled,
increasing by 216 percent statewide. Even relatively lower-cost Madison has
suffered a 170 percent increase in premiums and deductibles.

Most of the health insurance hyperinflation in Wisconsin took place before the
Affordable Care Act. Since the law was enacted, health insurance inflation has
slowed down, but premiums and deductibles remain high.

This is not surprising because the health care law was designed to be a first
step, focusing more on coverage than cost. The law guaranteed for the first time
that every American citizen has somewhere to go to get quality, affordable
health care, no matter what. It outlawed immoral insurance industry practices
such as denying coverage to cancer patients and others with pre-existing
conditions, or throwing young adults off their parents' policies. The health
insurance law made important steps on health care costs such as capping
excessive health insurance industry profits, outlawing junk insurance policies
that left families unprotected from huge medical bills when facing a serious
illness, and providing generous tax credits to make insurance more affordable.

States that are moving forward and building on the Affordable Care Act are
making more progress lowering health care costs than Wisconsin, whose partisan
conservative leaders are obsessed with going back to the days when health
insurance discrimination was legal. A recent report by Citizen Action of
Wisconsin found that Minnesota has individual health insurance rates that are on
average 46 percent lower than Wisconsin's.

Now that the Affordable Care Act is here to stay, the next stages of health care
reform have become a state issue. Although progressives in the Legislature don't
have the power to pass bills, they do have the power to set the agenda. The
conservatives who dominate the Legislature should be forced to take up-ordown
votes on common-sense health care cost reforms, so that voters can hold them
accountable in the 2016 elections.

There are four very popular initiatives leading states are already doing to
moderate costs that progressive legislators can advance in Wisconsin early this
year.

First, we can push for comprehensive rate review, forcing health insurance
companies to justify excessive rate increases, as utilities have had to do for
over 100 years. A bill was introduced by Sen. Chris Larson and Rep. Deb Kolste,
but has not even been scheduled for a hearing.

Second, we can hold prescription drug companies accountable, outlawing price
gouging for high-value drugs needed to manage chronic diseases or treat
life-threatening illnesses.

Third, we can crack down on "surprise medical bills," where patients get hit
with unexpected charges not covered by insurance.

Fourth, we can take the hundreds of millions of federal dollars for BadgerCare
that Gov. Walker is leaving on the table. Forcing people to remain uninsured
increases uncompensated medical care, spiking health insurance costs for
everyone else.

In 2016, the people of Wisconsin deserve better than the endless partisan
warfare over the health care law. Wisconsin progressives need to make the case
for building on the progress already made by the Affordable Care Act.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Robert Kraig is executive director of Citizen Action of Wisconsin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                              July 30, 2004 Friday
                                 Metro Edition

Uninsured drive health costs up;
State's tab $318 million a year, report says

BYLINE: Carla K. Johnson Staff writer

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 707 words


People who can't pay their medical bills cost Washington state $318 million
annually in care provided free by hospitals and doctors, according to a report
released Thursday.

The costs are passed on to everyone in the form of higher prices for health care
and insurance, the report said. In 2002, there were an estimated 549,535
Washington residents without health insurance, 9.4 percent of the population.

Washington Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler's office issued the report,
which also analyzed three proposals that Kreidler said could reduce the number
of uninsured by 40 percent and stabilize the health insurance market.

The report gave a county-by-county breakdown of people without health insurance
and the cost to local health-care systems.

"Nobody has put out these kinds of numbers before," Kreidler said. "It forces
policy-makers to take a hard look at the current system and its lack of
sustainability."

In Spokane County, more than 37,000 people have no health insurance, including
almost 4,500 children and teenagers. Of people ages 19 to 64 years old in
Spokane County, 12.6 percent have no health insurance.

Spokane County hospitals and clinics provide an estimated $19.6 million in care
annually to people without insurance and others who don't pay their bills.

Spokane hospitals are laying off workers and trying other budget-cutting
measures, in part because of the growing problem of unpaid medical bills.
Earlier this week, Empire Health Services announced plans to lay off 150
full-time equivalent employees. Providence Health Care is expected to make
public its own plan for layoffs in mid-August.

"There's a limit to how much cost-shifting hospitals can do," Kreidler said.
"You're seeing the fallout there (in Spokane)."

Not all charity care and bad medical debt is caused by people without health
insurance. Some people with health insurance still can't afford to pay their
deductibles and co-pays, Kreidler acknowledged.

More people are in health plans with higher deductibles and co-pays as employers
shift more insurance costs to workers.

The state's average insurance premium rose almost 20 percent in 2003, following
several years of double-digit percentage increases.

The report detailed how three legislative proposals would affect the problem:

*Pooling Risk: The plan would restructure the private insurance market so that
the state would cover 75 percent of health-care costs over $25,000 for all
insured state residents. Fans of the plan say a larger risk pool would reduce
the price of premiums, making insurance more affordable.

Kreidler floated this plan to the Legislature earlier this year. At that time,
the insurance industry questioned whether adding another layer to the insurance
system would really save money. Kreidler's report said the risk-pooling plan
would increase the number of people insured by 6.6 percent.

*Washington Fair Share: The plan would require more companies to provide health
insurance benefits. Companies with more than 50 employees who work more than 86
hours a month would be required to provide health insurance or pay a fee. The
plan would increase the number of insured people by 21 percent, the report said.

*Care for Kids: The plan would provide health insurance for children, from birth
to age 18, whose families can't afford the coverage. It would increase the
number of insured by 12 percent.

Kreidler's estimate of the cost of the uninsured includes lost hospital profit.
When hospitals report their charity care costs, they include not only actual
costs, but what's theoretically lost in profit.

In other words, hospitals' charity care numbers equal what patients would have
paid if they were charged in full for their hospital stays.

That full charge is an amount that most people with insurance don't pay,
however, because of contracted discounts with private insurance companies.
People covered by Medicare and Medicaid also don't pay the full charge because
the government sets rates that don't cover full charges.

The full charge for Providence and Empire hospital systems is roughly 50 percent
more than the actual cost of a hospital stay.

GRAPHIC: Map: Who pays for the uninsured

SIDEBAR:

ON THE WEB

UNINSURED

Read the full report at www.insurance.wa.gov.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Carla K. Johnson can be reached at (509) 459-5148, or by e-mail at
carlaj@spokesman.com.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2004 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              339 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           February 13, 1994, Sunday

ATLANTA BUSINESS: PERSPECTIVES OTHER VOICES

BYLINE: By Paul G. Farnhamseries; atlanta/journal/constitution; health;
insurance; costs; business; forecasts; bill/clinton; legislation; analysis

SECTION: BUSINESS; Section R; Page 13

LENGTH: 857 words


Other Voices gives members of the Atlanta business community an opportunity to
speak directly to Atlanta Journal-Constitution readers. Paul G. Farnham is an
associate professor of economics in the College of Business Administration at
Georgia State University.

Health care reform will have widely varying impact on firms

Big unknown: The consequences of reform legislation will be impossible to
determine until a final version meets the approval of Congress.

This is the sixth in a series discussing health care reform in the United States
and its impact on the health care industry, business and consumers.

The effect of health care reform on the business community is one of the most
controversial aspects of President Clinton's health care proposal.

There are widely varying claims as to the severity of the impact, particularly
on small businesses.

These consequences will be impossible to determine until a final version of
health care reform is approved by Congress.

The ultimate outcome will depend upon the nature of the costs imposed upon
businesses and the amount of employer subsidies included in the plan.

Clinton's ideal

Under the Clinton proposal, every American would receive basic health care
services. Health alliances, or regional purchasing groups, would certify health
plans to provide services, offer them to consumers, and collect and distribute
health insurance premiums.

Employers would be required to pay at least 80 percent of the average cost of
premiums in their region for employees and to support family coverage for
married workers.

Large corporations could negotiate directly with insurers for their employees'
coverage. The health insurance costs of small and low-wage businesses would be
subsidized by the federal government, as would costs for those not in the work
force.

Members of the business community are concerned about the total cost of the
Clinton plan, how the various subsidies will be financed, and the effects on
low-wage workers. If employers are mandated to provide and pay for health
insurance coverage for all workers, the cost of hiring an additional worker
increases. This means that firms that are currently not providing insurance
benefits may either reduce hiring or cut employment.

The National Federation of Independent Businesses has estimated that 3 percent
of all small businesses will have to shut down because of increased costs under
health care reform. Administration officials state that without a subsidy,
potential job losses for low-wage workers could range from 200,000 to 700,000.
Other economists have argued that losses could be two or three times larger.

Insights into the expected impact of health care reform on businesses can be
gained by examining the current pattern of health insurance benefits.

Employee coverage

In 1990, almost two-thirds of all Americans under age 65 were covered by
employment-based health insurance provided either directly by their employer or
indirectly through a family member. Employment-based coverage is most common for
full-time, year-round workers. For low-wage workers aged 18 to 64 earning less
than $ 10,000 a year in 1991, only 16 percent had direct coverage and about 30
percent had indirect employment- based coverage.

Large firms are more likely to offer health insurance benefits. A Health
Insurance of America survey reports that 95 percent of firms with 100 to 999
workers and 98 percent of firms with 1,000 or more workers offered health
insurance benefits in 1991.

Different with smaller firms

However, only 32 percent of firms with fewer than 25 workers and 81 percent of
firms with 25 to 99 workers offered these benefits.

There are also large variations in health insurance coverage across industries.
Data from the Employee Benefit Research Institute show that the percentage of
workers with employer coverage in selected industries is:

39 percent in agriculture.

50 percent to 60 percent in personal services, entertainment and recreation,
construction and retail.

More than 80 percent in wholesale, transportation and utilities, and
communications, finance and insurance, and real estate, manufacturing and
mining.

Fifty-four percent of the employees covered by employer-based health insurance
are enrolled in managed care plans. The majority of these plans incorporate some
form of utilization management, such as certification before hospital admission,
case management for large claims and incentives for outpatient surgery. The goal
of these features is to control health care costs. Similar elements are included
in the Clinton proposal.

Nature of the legislation

Thus, the effect of health care reform will vary by type of firm and industry
and will depend upon the exact nature of the legislation passed by Congress.

Workers in large firms with good wages and benefits will likely see few changes
under health care reform. Employees who select plans with greater choice and
flexibility will pay more, just as they do now.

Impacts in small, low-wage firms with minimal existing employee benefits may be
large, although the magnitude of these effects is, as yet, unknown.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH940480237

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mug shot of Paul G. Farnham

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              340 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Health insurance vital; Most Canadians don't purchase

BYLINE: Lisa Monforton, Canwest News Service

SECTION: ESCAPE; Pg. F2

LENGTH: 396  words


Just about the time the second wave of the H1N1 virus hits, many of us will be
thinking about giving the north the cold shoulder and booking a holiday in a hot
place.

Escaping the frosty temperatures doesn't mean you can dodge the illness. You can
expect the virus to be lurking in crowded airports, on planes and in hotels.
Sure, you can take the usual precautions, sneezing and coughing into the crook
of your elbow, carefully washing hands and practising the knuckle bump instead
of a handshake or hug. And getting the vaccine when it's available.

But there's one thing many of us often overlook in our haste to beat it to
beaches and deserts: Travel health insurance. We might be vigilant about
arranging pet sitters and finding the most flattering bathing suit, but not so
much at protecting the hard-earned investment in a precious holiday.

A 2008 Ipsos Reid poll conducted for RBC Insurance suggests the topic is not
considered as sexy as the bikini you might buy for the trip. Here are a few
highlights:

- Nearly 40 per cent of Canadians never purchase health insurance when
travelling on holidays to the United States, where medical costs are some of the
highest in the world.

According to the study, a four-day stay in a U.S. hospital for an appendectomy
could cost US$39,400, with only C$1,600 covered by a government health insurance
plan. A one-day stay in a U.S. hospital for a broken arm and wrist could cost
$32,600, with only $400 covered by a GHIP.

- In a similar study done the year before, it was found that 64 per cent have
never purchased travel health insurance when travelling in Canada because a
majority - around 75 per cent - believe their provincial health insurance plans
would cover everything. (Provincial plans often exclude X-rays, dental work,
ambulance transportation and prescriptions.) One example cited the cost of an
air ambulance with a full medical team travelling from Calgary to Toronto; the
$28,000 cost would not be covered by a government health insurance plan.

- Nearly 30 per cent have never purchased travel insurance when travelling
outside of Canada or the United States, skewing toward 18-to 34-year-olds.
Another common misconception is that certain credit cards that have travel
health insurance cover all costs incurred for illness or injury while
travelling. It's wise to read the fine print because this is often not the case.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Tyrel Featherstone, Canwest News Service files / Nearly 40 per
cent of Canadians never purchase health insurance when vacationing in the U.S. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business; Statistics

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday

Health insurance agency pays more than income

BYLINE: By Kang Shin-who

LENGTH: 125 words


The medical costs covered by the national health insurance scheme per household
are 1.68 times larger than the insurance premium paid by a household last year.

The National Health Insurance Corp. said it collected an average 925,349 won
($782) per household last year, while its payment for the coverage of their
medical costs stood at 1.55 million won, which means it spent 168 percent of its
premium income.

The insurance payment for the elderly in their 70s and 80s amounted to 327
percent and 404 percent of their premiums, respectively.

Those aged 30 and younger paid an average 570,000 won per year against 871,000
won in medical costs covered by the health insurance scheme. The payout to
premium ratio stood at 207 percent for those in their 60s.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Idaho Business Review (Boise, ID)

                             August 16, 2010 Monday

Commentary: Don't shoot the messenger, say Idaho's health insurance carriers

BYLINE: Michael Boss

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 1341  words


It wasn't very many years ago that the media were replete with Health Management
Organization (HMO) horror stories: single moms denied breast cancer treatment,
customers dropped from insurance plans when a critical illness necessitated
getting the care they had faithfully paid their premiums to guarantee.

The subtext was typically one of heartless corporations putting profit ahead of
ethics in the name of controlling spiraling health care costs.

While the term "HMO" is scarcely uttered these days, the health insurance
industry has been back in the media spotlight as a result of the congressional
debate over health care reform - and Idaho's major carriers seem to agree that
the portrayal of their industry has not been a favorable one. Rather than facing
a public relations dilemma, however, Idaho health insurance companies are
embracing an opportunity to educate and empower their customers at a time when
those customers may be more willing than ever to engage with them.

"The debate in Washington wasn't about health care reform, but about health
insurance reform," Steve Fredriksen, owner of Fredriksen Health Insurance in
Boise, said. "And it was dishonest from the get-go. Politicians were out to
demonize the health insurance industry. "

For Fredriksen, whose company has brokered group and individual health insurance
policies, Medicare coverage, and employee benefits since 1980, Idaho has been
well ahead of the curve when it comes to reforming health insurance practices to
increase access to care.

"In the 1990s the Idaho Legislature and the major insurance carriers in the
state worked together to adopt the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (NAIC) Small Group Reform and Health Insurance Reform Bill," said
Fredriksen. "This ensured that everyone in Idaho had complete access to health
insurance, and for the past 15 years nobody in Idaho has been denied coverage. "

The NAIC further insured that Idahoans would not be turned down on the basis of
pre-existing conditions, no matter how severe, by creating a high-risk pool that
Fredriksen broker Todd Miller described as "one of the most successful and
affordable in the country. "

Miller is concerned, however, that the result of recently enacted health care
reform legislation will be to put Idaho on a par with other states - which means
that health insurance premiums will be driven upward at a faster rate.

From the perspective of Karen Early, director of corporate communications for
Blue Cross of Idaho, a negative impact on premium costs as a result of federal
legislation is a foregone conclusion.

"Health care reform will not lower premium costs because we are expanding the
number of people being covered, expanding benefits, and expanding subsidies to
try and cover those costs," she said. "That money has to come from somewhere,
and part of it is going to come from an increased tax on health insurers, which
will add to premium costs. "

While people in New York may not see much of a difference in their rates as a
result of health care reform, Early explained, Idaho will, because the state
currently has the lowest health insurance premiums in the nation.

"If you are a 30-year-old non-smoker with a $5,000 deductible, you can get
insurance for $69 a month - at full coverage," she said. "When health care
reform kicks in we anticipate that the premium for that same person may be three
times as much. "

This eventuality could certainly create an image issue for Idaho's health
insurance carriers, even though that issue would not be one of their making.
Said Fredriksen, "When premiums are going up 20 to 30 percent a year, you can't
blame people for getting upset, but insurance companies are a reflection of the
costs they pay. "

Rather than shooting the messenger when Idaho businesses and individuals find
themselves facing the bad news of higher health insurance costs, however, the
state's major carriers are anticipating a public relations opportunity rather
than a public relations crisis - so long as customers first understand a
critical fact about their state's health insurance companies: all of the major
players are not-for-profit businesses.

"Every company has to operate in the black if it is going to survive," said
Early of Blue Cross. "But to suggest that insurers are only in it for profit is
a misconception. Our profit margin is between 1-1/2 and 2 percent, which puts us
on a par with grocery stores. "

The public relations opportunity facing Idaho health insurance carriers, at a
time when many consumers are viewing Washington as part of the problem of
unsustainable health care costs, is to engage customers in becoming part of the
solution.

"It is our job in this industry to help educate," said Dave Self, vice president
and Idaho regional director for Pacific Source, the Oregon-based health
insurance company that last year acquired Boise-based Primary Health. "In the
past that has been a challenge because most folks don't think about health
insurance, which is as it should be. It is supposed to be there when you need it
and do what it is supposed to do. "

"In the late '80s we started to reach out a little more to the consumer," Self
said, "but with reform being driven at the federal level, what we have today is
an opportunity to really educate because people because they are paying more
attention. "

Fredriksen, Early, and Self all agree that the initial opportunity for
engagement with customers in the wake of health care reform legislation will be
to help them understand its impacts on their policy options - especially given
the fact that so many of the details of the legislation's enactment are not yet
clear.

"Every day we watch the e-mails from the feds on the new provisions and changes
- the natural evolution of all the requirements to support a legislative clause
- and we then have to determine how that will impact the market," said Miller.

Health insurance company outreach to customers and the community at large will
increasingly take the form of collaborations aimed at what the insurance
carriers seem to view unanimously as the critical issue that health care reform
failed to address: the forces endemic to our health care delivery system that
drive cost inexorably upward.

"Our opportunity today is to say if there is a dollar on the table, how much of
it gets spent, in what bucket, and how can we give our customers the tools to
spend that dollar wisely while supporting the doctors and hospitals who provide
that care," Self said. "There will be discomfort that goes with this process,
but the outcome of people paying more attention could be very positive. "

As consumers feel the pain of rising health care costs on their insurance
premiums, they will be more inclined to take on greater responsibility for the
choices they make - including lifestyle choices.

"People will be more willing to consider the impact of their own actions on the
cost of health care," Self said.

One example of the kinds of customer/provider collaborations that Idaho health
insurance companies envision is a community health plan targeting childhood
obesity that Pacific Source has partnered with Treasure Valley Pediatrics to
create through a grant from the Community Health Excellence Program.

"We are positioned quite well to get people to pay attention to health issues,"
said Self, "and to be a resource and a consumer advocate for the things that can
affect access to and cost of health care. "

Fredriksen shares Self's perspective. As reform enactment, at least in the near
term, drives health care premiums up, consumers will be forced to try and
mitigate the impact through higher deductible plans.

"As people face higher deductibles they are going to care more about the best
alternative at the best cost," Fredriksen said. "The role for insurance carriers
is to help people take on more responsibility. "

The success of health insurance companies in playing this role, more than
congressional or media histrionics, will shape the public perception of whether
they are part of the solution, or part of the problem.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 17, 2013 Sunday

Minnesota health exchange bill passed by Senate; now heads to Gov. Dayton

BYLINE: By Christopher Snowbeck csnowbeck@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Legislature; Health

LENGTH: 730 words


Legislation to create a Minnesota marketplace for buying health insurance
cleared a final hurdle Monday, March 18.

The state Senate voted 39-28 along party lines to send the DFL-sponsored bill
for a health exchange to Gov. Mark Dayton for his expected signature.

The exchange is meant to make it easier for people to buy coverage, all while
helping increase the number of people with insurance. The 2010 federal health
care overhaul law of 2010 calls on state-level exchanges to be operating by
October.

"This is a cornerstone of the federal Affordable Care Act," said Sen. Tony
Lourey, DFL-Kerrick, before the Senate vote.

"It's a foundation upon which to make sure that people have access to the care
that they need."

No Senate Republicans voted for the bill. They argued the exchange will increase
costs, limit choices and threaten privacy.

In a House vote last week, Republicans also unanimously opposed the exchange,
which they said wrongly extends government power in the health care sector.

"This bill is a disgrace," said Senate Minority Leader David Hann, R-Eden
Prairie. "This would have been the easiest bill to have bipartisan support on."

Under the legislation, individuals and small employers would have the option of
buying insurance through the exchange in 2014. People enrolled in the state's
public health insurance programs also would receive coverage through the
exchange.

By 2016, about 1.3 million Minnesotans are expected to use the exchange.

DFL leaders made passage of the bill a priority, saying the state might be
forced to adopt a federal model for the marketplace unless the legislation
becomes law.

The marketplace is expected to cost about $50 million a year to operate. The
cost would be covered by withholding up to 1.5 percent of premiums from policies
sold on the exchange for next year, then up to 3.5 percent of premiums for
following years.

Republicans and business groups have criticized the anticipated cost of the
exchange -- and what the federal health law will mean for consumers.

During debate Monday, Sen. Paul Gazelka, R-Nisswa, said individual health
insurance premiums next year likely will have an average monthly cost of about
$350. Today, the average cost of individual insurance policies is about $180 to
$200, he said.

"That's a fairly dramatic increase," he said. "My concern has always been that
we're passing on the expense to those who are going to need the care."

Lourey, however, said the comparison is misleading because federal rules will
require richer benefits for many health insurance policies sold next year. Those
policies might have higher premiums, Lourey said, but they also will require
lower out-of-pocket costs when people use care.

Plus, he said, most consumers won't see an increase in out-of-pocket costs.
About 70 percent of Minnesotans buying individual policies will be eligible for
federal subsidies that should make their out-of-pocket costs hold steady or
decline, Lourey said.

Republicans weren't convinced.

"There's nothing in this bill that will make (health care) more affordable,"
said Sen. Carla Nelson, R-Rochester.

Under the federal Affordable Care Act, subsidies will be available to consumers
with incomes up to 400 percent of the poverty level -- a threshold that works
out to more than $90,000 per year for a family of four.

Consumers still will have the option to buy policies outside the health
exchange. But they must use the marketplace if they want to obtain the
subsidies.

The Affordable Care Act requires that almost all Americans have health insurance
coverage starting next year. The law also prohibits health insurance companies
from using pre-existing condition exclusions that have kept down the cost of
coverage in the past.

In addition, the law sets minimum standards for the richness of health plans
that can be sold.

By eliminating pre-existing condition exclusions and standardizing benefits, the
new insurance market is meant to be easier for consumers. The subsidies and
requirement to buy coverage are meant to lower the number of people without
health insurance, including about 300,000 in Minnesota.

"This is largely health insurance reform," Lourey said. "We will be eliminating
$150 million of uncompensated care costs ... most of which get cost allocated
back to those of us who are insured."

Christopher Snowbeck can be reached at 651-228-5479. Follow him
attwitter.com/chrissnowbeck .

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Minnesota State Capitol in St. Paul as seen from behind, Tuesday,
February 12, 2013. (Pioneer Press: Chris Polydoroff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand)

                            March 14, 2015 Saturday

KiwiSaver-style health plan

BYLINE: Rob Stock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 547 words


Starting a new job could in the future also see you being automatically enrolled
in a personal health insurance plan.

The KiwiSaver-style approach to boosting the number of people with private
health insurance could take pressure off the state health system, according to a
report.

The report by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research (NZIER) canvases
the policy options that politicians have at their disposal to encourage people
to buy their own private health insurance.

One option would be to mimic an aspect of KiwiSaver and auto-enrol people in a
health insurance plan when they start a new job.

The NZIER report was paid for by the Health Funds Association, the lobby group
for health insurers like Southern Cross, nib, and Sovereign.

With an ageing population government spending on healthcare is rising, and there
will be growing pressure to further ration services and encourage people to pay
more of their own healthcare costs, says NZIER.

Health insurance pays for the costs of things like surgery and hospital stays
for people who pay premiums every month, meaning the state does not have to pay
for their care.

But the number of people with health insurance has been falling as a result of
large rises in premiums driven by higher medical costs.

NZIER canvassed a range of options, but found the "most promising" to be "a
KiwiSaver-style" scheme.

"This option would involve legislation requiring that all employers provide
access to health insurance for employees and their families," NZIER says.

Auto-enrolment, or "soft compulsion" would aim to overcome people's "status quo
bias", while allowing them to opt-out, if they want to.

Auto-enrolment could be made even more effective by offering a "targeted
enrolment subsidy" and requiring employers to pay part of the premiums, NZIER
said.

The subsidy would not be available for people who already have health insurance.

NZIER looked at the viability of a general subsidy for people already paying for
private health insurance, but it would not deliver a big enough reduction in the
government's healthcare spending to justify the expense.

Similarly, NZIER found that removing fringe benefit tax on employees whose
employer pays some or all of their health insurance premiums was not likely to
provide savings for the taxpayer.

If there was no appetite for a KiwiSaver-like option, lawmakers could instead
require employers to offer health insurance to new employees and just let the
employee decide whether to take it out or not.

Health insurers have been struggling with the fall-off in the numbers of people
with insurance and have in the past lobbied for fringe benefit tax breaks on
premiums, and for tax breaks for the elderly on their insurance.

Roger Styles, chief executive of the association said the report found that
health insurance could play a big part in funding future healthcare costs, and
that there were big productivity gains to be had from helping people return to
work faster.

NZIER also considered whether adopting an Australian-style "tax surcharge" on
higher-income earners who do not have health insurance. Fifty-six per cent of
people earning $70,000 or more do not have private health insurance.

--------------------

CAPTION:

Cost saving: Health insurance is often linked to the workplace.

Picture: 123RF.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 25, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SMALL FIRMS COULD SET TRENDS IN PAYING THE PRICE FOR CARE.;
SQUEEZED BY THE HIGH COST OF INSURANCE

BYLINE: John G . Carlton; Post-Dispatch Medical Writer

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 904 words


* Six years ago, Chart Automotive Group absorbed 100 percent of the cost of
major medical coverage for its employees. No more.

There's been some pretty bad news around the water cooler at Chart Automotive
Group in St. Louis County the last few years.

Not about business -- business is fine at the company, which sells oil in bulk
to service stations, quick lube shops and auto dealers around the region. The
bad news has been about health.

The spouse of one employee developed cancer not long ago. A salesperson had a
heart attack. And what about that nice young lady in human resources? She ended
up with a blood clot in her leg after knee surgery last fall. Had to go back
into the hospital for almost a week.

Everyone's doing fine now. But it all adds up.

In this case, it adds up to about $ 50,000.

Health insurance premiums at the company are based, at least in part, on the
number and type of claims submitted by employees. So between 1997 and this year
-- when inflation was almost nonexistent and price increases were out of the
question -- health insurance costs at Chart jumped by more than 30 percent, or
about $ 50,000.

It's not the kind of expense that can make or break a company of Chart's size.
Still, that money might have been used to hire a new employee so the company
could grow. It might have gone toward the cost of buying a new oil delivery
truck.

That $ 50,000 could have funded a bonus of just over $ 1,000 to each of Chart's
47 employees.

"There was a time, six or seven years ago, when we paid 100 percent of the cost
of major medical coverage for all our employees and their dependents," company
president Frank Palazzo said. "We just can't afford to do that any more."

Multiply that story by a thousand other small- and medium-sized businesses in
Missouri and Southern Illinois and you begin to see why the price of health
insurance is such a big issue for business people.

"Just walk down the street and talk to anyone who works for a small business and
they'll tell you the same thing," said Daniel P. Mehan, president of the
Missouri Chamber of Commerce. "Business people understand changes in cost. But
these large, unexpected increases really squeeze your business."

Eventually, we may all wind up getting squeezed by the price small business pays
for health insurance.

Now, about 43 million Americans have no health insurance. Most of those people
work as unskilled laborers, or for small business that can't afford the cost of
providing health insurance.

About one in five workers at companies with fewer than 100 employees receives no
health insurance. Nearly a third of those at companies with fewer than 25
employees are not covered.

And according to a study prepared for the American Association of Health Plans,
a managed care trade group, about 400,000 Americans lose their health insurance
for every 1 percent rise in premiums. One large benefits consulting company
expects premiums to go up by 10 percent in each of the next two years.

The impact may be softened somewhat by previously uninsured workers moving to
companies that offer health insurance. Still, it's estimated that 47 million
Americans -- one out of every five people under the age of 65 -- will be without
health insurance by 2005.

If Palazzo has his way, none of them will be Chart Automotive employees.

"As an employer, I feel an obligation to protect the health and well-being of my
employees," he said. "But it becomes quite a balancing act. Otherwise, nobody
has a job, much less health insurance."

Part of that balancing act involves shopping around for health insurance. And
part of it involves the benefits that Chart is able to provide.

"That money can mean the difference between being able to offer a prescription
plan that pays all but $ 7 for the cost of drugs, or having to offer one that
pays all but $ 15," Palazzo said.

Still, there are some corners he's not willing to cut. And that ends up costing
the company. "I'll move heaven and earth to avoid subjecting the people who work
for me to an HMO," Palazzo said. Instead, he contracts for a less restrictive
form of managed care called a preferred provider organization, or PPO.

Last year, a national survey by benefits consultants William M. Mercer found
that PPO rates increased an average of 5.2 percent, compared with 1.6 percent
for HMOs -- health maintenance organizations.

The cost of providing health benefits, estimated at more than $ 4,200 per
employee in the Midwest, is becoming an ever growing part of business' ability
to compete. That's particularly true of companies whose competitors are located
in countries such as Canada or Japan, which have national health insurance.

And perhaps the worst news of all is that analysts considered the last couple of
years to have been a time of relative stability for health benefit costs. The
short-term future, they say, will be a time of rising prices that may test the
mettle of many small and medium size businesses.

Chart Automotive Group will survive, Palazzo said. But some other small business
people may not be so lucky.

"There's a perception out there that companies will be around forever," Palazzo
said last week. "Most people just don't realize what fragile creatures
businesses are. The slightest change in the marketplace or economics can wipe
out a company that provides employment for hundreds of people."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Color PHOTO by LAURIE SKRIVAN / POST-DISPATCH - Semi-truck
driver Ozzie Burgess of St. Louis County sweeps up around a storage area at
Chart Automotive Group. The company sells oil in bulk to service stations,
quick-lube shops and auto dealers throughout the St. Louis area. Business has
been good, but the growing cost of health insurance casts a shadow over the
employees.
 (2) Color PHOTO headshot - Frank Pallazzo owns Chart. He says cost makes full
health coverage for his workers unrealistic.
 (3) PHOTO by LAURIE SKRIVAN / POST-DISPATCH - Christina Andretta is the human
resources manager at Chart Automotive. She had knee surgery last fall, but a
blood clot that developed afterward put her back in the hospital for almost a
week. The bill for her hospital stay alone added up to $ 6,000. Of that, she
paid $ 450.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              346 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

Budget buster // CBO estimate on Obamacare at $1.76 trillion

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 549 words


COLUMN: IN OUR OPINION

Two years ago, just before Congress narrowly approved the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, colloquially known as Obamacare, we pointed out that the
legislation relied upon some duplicitous math to tamp down the cost.
Specifically, President Barack Obama and Democrats crafted legislation that
financed six years' worth of reforms with 10 years of taxes, a maneuver that
enabled them to claim the new law would cost $940 billion over the coming
decade.

On Tuesday, the Congressional Budget Office released a revised cost estimate,
using its 10-year outlook time frame to factor in more of the law's provisions
and their associated costs. The result is startling. The gross cost of Obamacare
from fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2022 is estimated to be a cumulative $1.76
trillion.

To be sure, the CBO report also gives a net cost, which it lists at a mere $1.25
trillion. But half of the "savings" consists of penalty payments by individuals
and businesses who fail to obtain insurance, as well as excise taxes on
high-premium insurance plans. Those billions of dollars ultimately come out of
the pockets of American workers and taxpayers.

As to Obamacare's primary and long-advertised purpose - extending health
insurance coverage to all Americans without it - the CBO report concludes that
the percentage of non-elderly Americans with coverage will go from 82 to percent
this year to 93 percent a decade from now. That means that by 2022, between 20
million and 23 million more Americans will be covered through newly created
insurance exchanges, but roughly the same number will continue to lack any
health insurance coverage.

The CBO report also estimates that between 3 million and 5 million Americans
will have shifted from an employer-provided health insurance plan into some form
of government plan.

These financial and demographic estimates matter because health insurance is not
exempt from economic laws and human nature. Competition and choice tend to
improve quality and drive down cost. But Obamacare, when fully implemented, will
have the opposite effect - exacerbating the nation's slide toward government-run
health insurance.

Later this month, the U.S. Supreme Court will hear an unprecedented
five-and-a-half hours of testimony for and against Mr. Obama's signature
legislation. Defenders of the law will argue, eloquently and with some justice,
that the insurance coverage of millions is at stake. Well, health insurance is
an important and useful thing to have, and extending its benefits to more
Americans is a social and economic good.

But how and why we expand health insurance coverage matters greatly. A principle
more important than copayments and prescription drug coverage is at stake: Does
Congress have the power to arrogate to itself the power to regulate one-sixth of
the nation's economy under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution?

We believe they do not, and expect the Court will strike down key provisions of
Obamacare, in effect telling the legislative and executive branches that they
must find a better way to achieve their policy goals.

If not, prepare for a less-free future, one in which Washington bureaucrats will
tell Americans what coverage they must carry, how much health care they may
consume, and what they must pay for it.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Two years ago, just before Congress narrowly approved the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, colloquially known as Obamacare, we pointed
out that the legislation relied upon some duplicitous math to tamp down the
cost. Specifically, President Barack Obama and Democrats crafted legislation
that financed six years' worth of reforms with 10 years of taxes, a maneuver
that enabled them to claim the new law would cost $940 billion over the coming
decade.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             August 4, 2014 Monday

Seven secrets to choose the best health insurance plan;
Here's what you need to keep in mind before making a choice to ensure that it is
the right one

BYLINE: S. Sridharan

LENGTH: 853  words


Here's what you need to keep in mind before making a choice to ensure that it is
the right one

Medical costs and the complexity of diseases keep increasing by the day. A minor
surgery can cost you anywhere between Rs 30,000 and Rs 60,000, while a cardiac
treatment can cost you Rs 5 lakh, depending on the city and hospital you choose.
One way to handle this rising cost is by taking a medical insurance policy in
your name.

In India, there are more than 25 companies offering various medical insurance
policies. However, most of these policies are complex in nature and one plan
never fits all. Hence, it is very important to note that you have to understand
your individual needs in order to choose the right insurance plan. Here are a
few points that will help you do this.

Company

There are 28 general insurance companies in India that offer health insurance
plans. It is very important to know the company's background, management,
network of hospitals, claim process (in-house or third party) and claim
settlement ratio before choosing the right plan. It is best to choose a general
insurance company for your health insurance, rather than a company that offers
life and general insurance. This is because the cost for health insurance
policies is higher when life insurance companies offer them.

Tip 1: For your health insurance policy, choose a company that is purely into
the health insurance arena.

Inclusions and

Exclusions

It is very important to note that pre-existing diseases are not covered during
the initial years of the policy. Also, there are a few medical procedures like
dental surgery, hernia, etc. which are excluded in the first few years.

Tip 2: Take a close look at the list of excluded diseases before finalizing your
health insurance plan.

Sublimit

To tackle the rise in health care costs, insurance companies have introduced
sublimit clauses. The most common sublimits are room rent, doctor's fees and
diagnostics. For example, if you are taking a plan for a sum assured of Rs
2,00,000, the insurer may cap the room rent to the extent of 1%-1.5% of the sum
assured, or Rs 2,000 per day, whichever is higher. If it exceeds the specified
limit, then you have to pay the balance.

Tip 3: While most companies have sublimits in their policy, do talk to your
insurance advisor to find out which companies offer health insurance plans
without any sublimits.

Co-payment

Co-payment means the fixed percentage of the total bill which you have to pay in
case of a claim. This percentage is already defined in the policy document. The
co-payment clause is around 10% or 20% for such policies. For some policies, it
can go as high as 40%.

Tip 4: Identify those diseases that come under the co-payment clause before you
opt for a health insurance policy.

Renewal age

Most PSU companies and certain public insurance companies provide medical
insurance policies with a renewal age of up to 70 or 80 years. It is to be noted
that diseases may increase with old age and so, medical costs may be higher.
Hence, it is important to have medical insurance at an older age.

Tip 5: Few companies offer senior citizen policies with lifetime renewal, for
which the entry age itself is 60 years. For non-senior citizens, it is advisable
to look at a policy that offers lifetime renewal to you.

Coverage

If you are unmarried, it is better to take an individual policy. Health
insurance policies offer a provision to add new family members at a later stage.

If you are married with kids, then it is best to opt for a family floater policy
that will cover you, your spouse and your kids. It is ideal to have a separate
senior citizen policy for your parents, if they have crossed 60 years of age.
This is because the cost of a family floater would be decided on the basis of
the highest age of the person in the family and hence, taking such a policy with
a senior citizen in it would skyrocket your cost.

If you are living in Tier-1 cities, it is ideal to have a coverage of not less
than Rs 10 lakh as a family floater, while if it is Tier-2 cities, you can have
a coverage of not less than Rs 5 lakh.

Tip 6: No claim bonuses will be offered by insurance companies in two different
ways. Few of them will offer it to increase the sum assured every year, while
few companies offer it as a discount in premium. Choose the one which increases
the coverage instead of the discount in premium as the cost of medication
increases on a yearly basis.

Cost

Ideally, the cost of the policy should be given least importance while buying
medical insurance. If the policy provides you all the benefits and if the cost
is a little higher, it is ideal to look at the cost benefit analysis and to take
the same as it is worthwhile to pay the cost for the benefit you get.

Tip 7: Don't compromise on service standards even if you pay extra premium for
the same.

To conclude, save, invest, or do whatever you want - but remember that there can
be no dispute over the need for health insurance. It offsets the impact of
rising healthcare costs and gives you coverage when you most need it.

S. Sridharan, Head - Financial Planning and Advisory, FundsIndia.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           December 5, 2015 Saturday
                               Australian Edition

'Health reforms could save $3bn'

BYLINE: Sarah-Jane Tasker INSURANCE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 549  words


Medibank Private has recommended healthcare reforms it says will save about $3
billion in annual health costs and help reduce future insurance premium
increases by up to 16 per cent.

The insurer says the reforms, outlined in its submission to the federal
Department of Health's review into private health insurance, would deliver much
needed transparency, affordability and value for consumers in the healthcare
system.

Medibank's outgoing managing director George Savvides said it was clear that
substantial reforms were required.

He said customers had been telling the insurer it needed to look much more
closely at how it could improve transparency, the affordability of premiums and
the overall value it provided.

"Medibank members have told us directly that transparency must be at the heart
of any improved healthcare system," he added.

"Members are also telling us that affordability is becoming critical. That means
removing obstacles that artificially inflate costs to keep premiums at a level
that encourages participation in private healthcare, keeping pressure off the
public system." The private health insurer says premiums have been increasing by
6.5 per cent a year, leading to 500,000 Australians cancelling or downgrading
their private health insurance cover this year.

Submissions to the federal private health insurance review were due yesterday
and Bupa used its response to call for an urgent review of costs.

Dwayne Crombie, managing director of health insurance at Bupa, argued there were
many areas of waste and inefficiency that were flowing through to consumers and
ultimately increasing the cost of premiums. "Given that around 87 per cent of
the money that members spend on their insurance premiums goes towards payments
to healthcare providers, health insurers and the wider health system have a
responsibility to question how that money is being spent," he said.

"Few consumers understand why healthcare costs what it does and where their
money goes, which limits their ability to make informed decisions about their
treatment options, and also inhibits meaningful competition." Dr Crombie said
the sector should be looking at options to help more people access health
insurance, such as incentives for young people, which would in turn improve
affordability and reduce the burden on the public system. "With health insurance
covering half the population, and last year contributing $17bn towards members'
treatments, it's critical that this review ensures the sector can continue to
support a sustainable and affordable health system." Medibank also recommended
rewarding early uptake of health insurance. Its reform proposals also included
standardising simpler products and terminology and ending cost-shifting from
public hospitals to privately insured consumers.It also proposed reducing the
cost of prostheses and reducing hospital default costs, plus improving
competition and premium setting. Medibank says creating greater competition and
improving affordability through greater efficiencies could save consumers up to
$200 million annually. Medibank also suggests other reforms should be considered
to improve the attractiveness of private health care and encourage
participation, including a superannuation-style program that would pay premiums
after retirement.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                            March 2, 2011 Wednesday

Rise in group health cover cost a concern

BYLINE: OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 262  words


Calcutta, March 2: The burden of group health insurance on companies is getting
heavier.

Costs on this count have increased 15-25 per cent in 2010 compared with 9 per
cent in the previous year, according to a survey on health care trends by Towers
Watson, a multinational risk management consulting firm.

Year 2011 will not be different either. As many as 55 per cent of the employers
in the survey have reported a claims-to-premium ratio of more than 100 per cent.

"Insurers are aligning their group health insurance premium in line with the
market trend, leading to an increase in premium costs for the employers," said
Kulin Patel, head (benefits) of Towers Watson India.

"The rise in premium is worrisome as the majority of the surveyed employers have
not made any strategy for employer-employee contribution towards premium and
claim costs, claim from special hospital network, rewards/penalties for health
status of the employees, treatment with alternative medicines, and so on," the
survey said.

Some practices that help to bring down the cost of group health insurance
premium are not popular in India. One of them is to let employee's bear part of
the costs.

"Copayment arrangements require employers to deduct a certain amount from the
employee's salary towards sharing the premium cost. As this practice is not
widespread in India, the cost of health insurance premium is largely borne by
the employer," the survey added.

According to Towers Watson, the survey signals a possible change from the
"one-size-fits-all" strategy of the employers to a more targeted approach.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2011 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           November 14, 2013 Thursday

Health insurers may load late entrants;
Reilly considering allowing insurers charge those who join later in life higher
premiums

BYLINE: Martin Wall

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 544 words


MARTIN WALL

Health insurance companies may be permitted to introduce "loadings" on the
premiums of people who take out cover later in life under measures being
considered by Minister for Health James Reilly.

At present in Ireland a concept of single-rate community rating applies which
means that the age of entry of a person to the health insurance system does not
determine the level of premium that has to be paid.

The Department of Health said last night that the Minister was "disposed to
considering any measures that may assist with ensuring the maintenance of a
healthy and functioning private health insurance market, in the transition to a
universal health insurance system".

The department said one measure under consideration was the introduction of a
system of lifetime community rating.

It said that, at present, everyone was charged the same premium for a particular
health insurance plan, irrespective of age, gender and the current or likely
future state of their health. 'Incentive'

It said that under a system of lifetime community rating the premium that a
person paid would rise with the age at which they entered the private health
insurance market.

"Regulations on lifetime community rating could perhaps be used as a mechanism
to discourage people from only taking out private health insurance as they get
older (by allowing commercial insurers to charge higher premiums to "late
entrants" to the market) and thus provide an incentive for people to take out
private health insurance at a younger age.

"There are a number of technical issues which would have to be considered before
any possible introduction of lifetime community rating, such as the age at which
premium loading should commence and the rate at which loading should apply, to
ensure that such a measure could be introduced in an appropriate, balanced
manner."

The comments by the Department of Health came in the wake of controversy over
the likelihood of further increases in the cost of private health insurance on
foot of a decision by the Government on Tuesday to increase stamp duty on most
health insurance products by 14 per cent from next March.

The net price paid by consumers for many health insurance plans has already
increased following the reduction of tax relief in the budget.

Dr Reilly suggested yesterday that insurance companies could absorb the cost of
the increased stamp duty or "health insurance levy" by reducing the level of
profit they were making on cover provided to younger people.Costs tackled

He also said that costs in the private health insurance sector had not been
attacked in any meaningful way.

Speaking on RT^%o Radio he said that costs would be tackled in the future.

Dr Reilly said 60,000 people a year had left the private health insurance market
over the past four years and he indicated the same number could drop out this
year.

However, the country's second largest private health insurer, Laya Healthcare,
said it was not possible to avoid passing on the proposed levy increase to
customers.

Laya managing director D^3nal Clancy said the suggestion by Dr Reilly that
private health insurers absorb the increase themselves was "unsustainable".

"There's no doubt that if we have to pay out that money, we will have to collect
that money," he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

Scott, lawmakers can help us by lowering health insurance tax

BYLINE: JERRY PIERCE; Special to The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 533 words



HIGHLIGHT: tax column


If you have health insurance, you will be paying 2 percent to 2.5 percent more
beginning Jan. 1, thanks to a new tax created to partially fund the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). Called the Health Insurance Tax, or
HIT Tax, it needlessly adds to the cost of health insurance that individuals and
small businesses purchase.

The tax will be assessed on almost all health insurance policies, individual
policies, small group policies, Medicare advantage policies for seniors and
Medicaid managed care policies for the needy. It will be collected by your
health insurance company, and paid by employers, employees and their families.
The only group that escapes the tax is  large corporations that are able to
self-insure their health insurance.

Modest taxes on insurance premiums are a traditional state revenue source.
Florida has had a premium tax for more than 60 years. Forty-six other states
depend on some form of an insurance premium tax. In Florida, through responsible
state management, the insurance premium tax has been kept low at 1.75 percent
(far lower than the feds' opening bid of 2 percent to 2.5 percent).

The new federal insurance premium tax is a stacked tax.  You will pay the new
federal tax on your insurance premium, and on the amount of state premium taxes
you already pay!

But Gov. Rick Scott and the Florida Legislature can help.

With a projected budget surplus in excess of $500 million, Scott is pursuing
ideas to cut taxes and fees to help Floridians, and we think offsetting the
impending impact of PPACA is a great place to start. And it is within the
Legislature's capacity to take action to mitigate the increased health insurance
costs that the Affordable Care Act creates.

They can cut the state premium tax on health insurance policies. This would
indeed offset PPACA's tax increase, helping bring down health care costs and
ensuring that small-business owners aren't double burdened by high health
insurance costs at both the state and federal levels.

But remember, reducing the state premium tax wouldn't just help small businesses
- it would help nearly all Floridians. The HIT tax will entirely be passed on to
consumers in the fully insured marketplace, where almost all business owners,
employees and their families secure their health insurance coverage,
jeopardizing reasonable health care costs for all of Florida's citizens.

During this month's legislative committee week in Tallahassee, the House Finance
and Taxation Subcommittee heard public testimony on some of the ideas to cut
taxes. Cutting the state premium tax was one of the key possibilities that was
discussed, as it would deliver tax relief to almost all Floridians.

I'm sure the governor and the Legislature will continue to hear a long list of
great ideas to cut taxes and fees, but they should prioritize mitigating the
impact of raising Florida's health insurance costs by eliminating the state
premium tax on health insurance policies for Florida's small businesses, their
employees, and their families. I implore them to soften the blow of PPACA-driven
health insurance cost increases on Floridians.

Jerry Pierce is chairman of the National Federation of Independent Business.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                           September 18, 2009 Friday

Health insurance costs in state a 'strain'

BYLINE: Kathie Durbin Columbian staff writer

SECTION: CLARK COUNTY; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 803 words



Health insurance premiums in Washington have risen more than five times as fast
as family earnings since 2000, according to a new national study.
Lack of competition among insurance providers, the cost of caring for an aging
population and the cost of emergency care for the uninsured all have
contributed to the increase, says the nonprofit organization Families USA.

"The combination of stagnant wages and rising health care costs is placing a
growing strain on family budgets, and many families have reached a breaking
point," the study concludes. "Quite simply, Washington's families are being
priced out of health coverage."
The cost of health insurance premiums in Washington has climbed by 113.3
percent while family earnings have increased by only 21.6 percent over the
decade, the study found.
"In real dollars, the increased cost is dramatic," Families USA said in a
statement. "The actual average cost of premiums for families of four rose from
$6,496 in 2000 to $13,854 in 2009. For individuals, the increase is as
dramatic, from $2,740 to $4,681. At the same time, wages increased for families
by only an average of $5,769."
The disparity means that if a family wanted to keep the same insurance coverage
today that it had in 2000, "all of their increased wages would go directly to
health insurance, and it still would not be enough," the report said.
The Kaiser Family Foundation reported similar trends nationally in a study
released this week that found the average annual premium for employer-paid
health insurance had jumped 131 percent since 1999.
In Washington state
In Washington, Regence Group, Premera Blue Cross and Group Health account for
nearly 60 percent of the private health insurance market, according to the
Office of the Insurance Commissioner. In Clark County,
Kaiser Permanente,
a health maintenance organization, is a major player, covering nearly 100,000
county residents.
But a spokeswoman for Regence Blue Cross/
Blue Shield of Oregon,
which covers 14.5 percent of the Clark County market, said Regence operates in
one of the nation's most competitive markets and its premiums are subject to a
"rigorous and thorough review" by state regulators.
"Many factors are responsible for the rising cost of health care, including the
high rate of unnecessary medical treatment, hospital and facility duplication,
technology, poorly coordinated care and personal habits," Regence spokeswoman
Samantha Meese said in a statement. "Families USA and others make the point
that coverage is costly compared to income, but the real comparison is to
claims costs."
The cost of paying claims is rising faster than Regence's growth in membership
in both Oregon and Washington, Meese said.
Regence is working to reduce those costs by going after medical identity
thieves, emphasizing prevention and early intervention, carefully reviewing
pharmacy benefits and trying to reduce the incidence of medical harm that
occurs in hospitals, she said.
Washington State Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler said controlling the cost
of health insurance is a top priority for him.
"The only refuge we have from those dismal numbers is that the cost of health
care is lower in Washington than in most states," he said.
Individual employee contributions to employer-provided health policies averaged
$569 annually in Washington last year, far less than the national average of
$882, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. But employer contributions in
the state were higher than the national average.
The number of health insurance providers licensed in Washington actually has
steadily increased over the past decade, according to the Office of the
Insurance Commissioner. In 1998, 11 traditional health insurance companies and
two health maintenance organizations did business in Washington. By last year,
25 health insurance companies and five HMOs offered policies here.
But competition varies from county to county.
Clark County has five options available for those seeking individual health
care policies. Each of the state's other urban counties - King, Pierce,
Thurston, Snohomish and Spokane - has seven.
Even many low-population rural counties have more options available than Clark
County. Cowlitz, Skamania and Wahkiakum counties all have six.
At least seven insurance companies offer employer-provided group plans in Clark
County: Aetna, CIGNA, Health Net,
Kaiser Permanente,
Providence Health Plan, Regence Blue Cross/Blue Shield and United HealthCare.
Kreidler said the issue of increasing competition in the health insurance
market is complex and does not lend itself to easy solutions.
"A big part of the problem is that you need economies of size," he said. "You
can't be a small insurer in a big market. Efficiencies come in putting together
provider markets. You don't do that with a mom-and-pop operation."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             March 2, 2002 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Benefit we cannot do without, necessary evil we can improve;
COMMENTARY - THE DUEL Private health insurance

BYLINE: John Rashleigh, president of the Health Benefits Council of Victoria and
Peter Sainsbury, president of the Public Health Association of Australia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 1234 words


The increase in health fund premiums approved this week threw a shadow over the
value of the taxpayer-subsidised private health sector. The president of the
Health Benefits Council of Victoria, John Rashleigh, says it's time to recognise
some home truths. Peter Sainsbury, president of the Public Health Association of
Australia, says we should not forget the value of Medicare.

John Rashleigh

The private health insurance industry is in danger of being swamped by man-made
myths. Let me add a touch of reality.

Myth number one is that a total government-owned system can control health costs
more effectively than a privately oriented system. This can be true if cost is
more important than availability and quality of service. Costs can be controlled
by rationing the service and compromising quality. Sick patients waiting on
trolleys is the most graphic result of cost control. A total government system
removes choice.

Critics usually point to the US, with its high cost health system as an example
of what can happen if we allow private health to dominate. The high costs in the
American system are driven by the uncontrolled cost of drugs, litigation and the
employer-based nature of the system. A comparison with the Australian system is
inappropriate.

Myth number two is that the rebate given to those who take responsibility for
their health care would be better spent in the public system. The removal of the
subsidy would make health insurance much more expensive and reduce, by a
substantial number, those who pay for private health insurance. This would
reduce the total amount of money available for health care in Australia as well
as putting increased pressure on the public system.

The Federal Government has put in place a clever policy. It has persuaded people
who already pay for 100 per cent health cover through taxation to also pay for
private health insurance. The 45 per cent who are insured pay 60 per cent of the
nation's health bill.

The subsidy is not paid to the health funds but to the contributor as some
recompense for the contribution made to the nation's health. For every 30Â¢ the
Government rebates to the contributor, he or she puts in 70Â¢.

Myth number three is that a rationalisation of the 44 health funds will lead to
substantial savings. This is unlikely. The bulk of administrative costs are in
processing claims. Rationalisation would not deliver huge savings.

Myth number four is that the newly approved premium increase shows the
Wooldridge reforms of the health insurance industry have failed and the
increases are a cause for great alarm.

Health fund rates have been frozen for at least two years and, in some cases,
three. The Consumer Price Index has risen by 9 per cent during those two years.

The average rate increase just approved is 6.9 per cent. This achievement should
be a cause of celebration, not condemnation.

Note also that the increases have been approved only after a process involving a
careful examination by the Department of Health and Ageing and the Private
Health Insurance Administrative Council. Requests for increases had to be
supported by an actuarial report. The process is rigorous.

Health care costs always increase faster than inflation thanks to the increase
in hospital and medical costs and the provision of increased payments to the
consumers by gap payments.

The achievements so far are notable. Even when the rates do rise from April 1,
individuals will pay less for health insurance than they did four years ago.

Myth number five is that the health funds are passive players in the health of
Australia. Health funds are working hard to bring improvements to the whole
health system and are particularly active in improving the quality of care.
Quality is increasingly being included in contracts with private hospitals with
outcome measures, hospital benchmarking and reduction of adverse events. Disease
management, cost control and illness prevention are the proper concerns of
health funds. Australia will eventually be grateful for a vibrant private health
sector.

Peter Sainsbury

If private health insurance is such a great product, why did members leave in
droves during the 1980s and '90s (the national private health insurance rate
fell from 65 per cent in 1983 to 31 per cent in 1999)? Why has the Federal
Government cajoled and frightened people into joining private funds by spending
millions of our tax dollars on expensive advertising campaigns? Why is it
handing out over $2 billion each year to bribe people to join up? Why do many
people who have private health insurance choose not to use it when they are
admitted to a public hospital? And why are many members threatening to leave
their fund after a relatively modest increase in premiums?

The truth is that for most Australians, the publicly funded health system
provides an excellent, cost-effective service and they know it. If you are a
patient, the public system provides a comprehensive range of world-class
diagnostic, treatment and caring services. Unlike the private system, the public
system doesn't cherry-pick the profitable services and patients; it provides
services to all Australians according to need, not capacity to pay. With
Medicare you have the security of knowing that if you fall sick, your hospital
and doctors' bills won't make you bankrupt. And for the taxpayer, all of us, the
public health system has successfully controlled health care costs. Despite an
ageing population, increasingly expensive technology, and the very labour
intensive nature of health care, the percentage of GDP Australia spends on
health care has remained constant over 15 years.

Although it's good, no-one claims Medicare is perfect. We all know, for
instance, some hospitals have long waiting lists for some elective operations,
that there can be lengthy delays in emergency departments, and many rural areas
don't have a GP. These problems must be solved, but the remedies prescribed by
the private health care industry and the Commonwealth Government are unlikely to
be successful. Bribing and bullying people into joining private health funds is
not going to take the load off public hospitals. It's mostly younger and fitter
people who have joined the health funds recently and they don't use public
hospitals much. Health fund members also tend to be more affluent and so half of
the private health insurance rebate goes to the top 20 per cent of taxpayers.

The Public Health Association is not opposed to private health care but we are
opposed to supporting it with massive subsidies from the public purse. Health
insurance should be an optional extra for people who freely choose it. Medicare
is not a safety net for the poor, and private health insurance is not a moral
obligation for everyone else.

The evidence from Australia and overseas persuades us that public health care
systems that cover the whole population are the most cost-effective and fairest
way of providing high quality services for everyone.

We believe Australia has a very good public system that could be made even
better if the $2.5 billion wasted each year on the rebate (it wasn't even the
rebate that encouraged people to join health funds, it was the Lifetime Cover
threat) was redirected to the public system to reduce the queues, ensure rural
areas have adequate services, improve dental services for poorer Australians,
improve aged care services, and develop better community care.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2002 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2002 The Catholic University of America
                  Journal of Contemporary Health Law & Policy

                                   Fall, 2002

                      18 J. Contemp. Health L. & Pol'y 673

LENGTH: 4567 words

COMMENT: GERMAN HEALTH CARE - TOWARDS UNIVERSAL ACCESS: AN OVERVIEW OF THE
PRINCIPLES OF ACCESS AND BENEFITS

NAME: Prof. Dr. Rainer Schlegel*

BIO: * Justice of Federal Social Court, Kassel, Germany

TEXT:
 [*673]

   I. GERMAN HEALTH CARE SYSTEMS

 In Germany, four systems provide benefits and services in case of illness:



   1. Statutory health insurance



2. Private health insurance



3. Health-care system for civil servants



4. Welfare

 Statutory health insurance (Gesetzliche Krankenversicherung) is the most
central of these systems which include most employees, retirees, members of
their families and other population groups serving over eighty-nine percent of
the population. A further nine percent of the population is privately insured.
Primarily, this includes persons who are not subject to compulsory statutory
health insurance, particularly independent entrepreneurs and self-employed
professionals such as doctors, pharmacists, architects and attorneys. In
addition, employees who because of the amount of their salary are no longer
subject to compulsory insurance may be privately insured. Civil servants may
take out supplementary insurance to supplement the civil service health-care
cost reimbursement system.

   Persons who are needy and are not in a position to insure their livelihood
themselves can claim welfare (Sozialhilfe). Welfare is granted both as
assistance for indigents and in particular circumstances of disability or
illness. If a welfare recipient is not insured under compulsory state insurance,
necessary medical treatment (including medicine and in-patient treatment) is
paid for him. The amount of assistance generally corresponds to benefits
provided by statutory health insurance. Welfare is of course only a subsidiary
system, an ultimo ratio; it is provided only for the needy and it ensures that
nobody in Germany is left without sufficient medical care.

    [*674]  These four systems and their interrelation are an expression of the
social welfare state principle (Sozialstaatsprinzip) anchored in the German
constitution. Beyond that, the Constitution demands that the state protects and
respects the dignity of every individual person. From this, German courts derive
a legal right of the individual to expect that the state assures a minimum
living for everyone (Existenzminimum), including adequate medical care. However,
the number of people dependent on welfare for medical care is low. Primarily
because the unemployed are also insured under compulsory statutory health
insurance.

   This article presents a general picture of the requirements for and benefits
of access to statutory health insurance. It addresses some problems with this
system of insurance and examines politicians' suggested solutions. The questions
that arise here are: Who is insured? What assistance does statutory health
insurance offer? Who pays for all of this? What can we do to preserve the
functionality of the system?

   II. "THE FIVE PILLARS" OF SOCIAL SECURITY SCHEMES

 Statutory health insurance in Germany has an over one hundred year-old
tradition. Its basic structure has by and large been retained since its
introduction at the close of the Nineteenth century to the present day.
Statutory health insurance was introduced in 1883 as the first of the three
so-called Bismarck social insurance laws. Workmen's compensation (statutory
occupational accident insurance) law followed in 1884 and in 1889, the law on
invalidity and retirement insurance was passed. In reaction to several economic
crises, unemployment insurance was added in 1927. The statutory long-term care
insurance of 1994 presents the latest act in the system of social insurance.
This insurance covers extreme, long-term care needs arising from illness or
frailty. It is closely connected with statutory health insurance because those
insured by statutory health insurance are also automatically insured for
long-term care.

   III. STATUTORY HEALTH INSURANCE - COMPULSORY INSURANCE FOR EMPLOYEES AND
OTHER GROUPS

 Statutory health insurance is first and foremost a state ordered compulsory
insurance for individuals - above all for employees. It is operated by health
insurance funds (Krankenkassen), which are public statutory corporations and,
thus, public authorities. Unlike private insurance companies, they are not
profit oriented. Federal law regulates this insurance system down to the last
detail including, among other things, who is compulsory covered by statutory
health insurance, who may have a voluntary insurance policy, which payments are
covered, how the  [*675]  contributions to health insurance are calculated and
who has to pay premiums/contributions (Beitr<um a>ge). These regulations do not
leave much room for individual arrangements on the part of the health insurance
funds.

   The most important element of statutory health insurance is dependent
employment. However, employees are only subject to compulsory health insurance
if their income falls within certain boundaries. Employees are subject to
compulsory insurance if their pay totals more than 325 Euro a month or if they
work at least fifteen hours a week. Compulsory insurance does not cover those
whose salaries regularly exceed the upper limit, presently set at 3,375 Euro per
month.

   The statutory rationale for these lower and upper limits (Geringf<um
u>gigkeitsgrenze-und Versicherungspflichtgrenze) lies in the following
consideration: persons, who pursue only part-time employment are generally not
dependent on their jobs to make a living. Rather their livelihood, including
health insurance, is provided by other means, such as through independent wealth
or members of their family, particularly a spouse. Above the present 3,375 Euro
a month upper limit, it is assumed that there is no longer a need for protection
because the employee can independently arrange for his insurance from his income
(be it through private health insurance, or through savings). The upper limit is
adjusted annually based on the general development of salaries. Employees, who
earn more, can take out private insurance. They also have the option to become a
voluntary member of statutory health insurance or they may dispense with
insurance completely in the hopes of never becoming seriously ill.

   Compulsory insurance exists for employees engaged in professional education
or training and for those who are receiving unemployment benefits
(Arbeitslosengeld) or unemployment assistance (Arbeitslosenhilfe). Retirees are
also covered by compulsory health insurance, if they were predominantly covered
by such insurance when still gainfully employed.

   However, compulsory insurance does not only apply to employees, unemployed
and retired people. It also applies to students, independent artists,
journalists and independent farmers. Disabled persons are subject to compulsory
insurance if they work at an approved workshop for the handicapped or are in
employment promotion schemes. Fifty-five percent of all people compulsorily
insured in statutory health insurance are employees, about thirty-four percent
are retired a further eight percent are unemployed persons.

[*676]

   IV. NON-CONTRIBUTORY DEPENDENTS' INSURANCE

 A particular characteristic of statutory health insurance is non-contributory
dependants' insurance (betragsfreie Familienversicherung). This insurance not
only covers the employee, retiree or unemployed but also his spouse and children
unless these dependents have their own insurance as employees. The insured does
not need to pay an additional premium for such dependents' insurance. This
distinguishes statutory health insurance from private health insurance, which
demands premiums for each insured person, including children and spouses. In
contrast, German social legislation generally pursues the goal of so-called
family relief (Familienlastenausgleich). Those who support children have a right
to have that decrease their resulting economic burden. In the ongoing discussion
about financing the healthcare system, there are a growing number of people who
criticize this. Some demand that non-contributory insurance coverage should be
limited to children and argue that the spousal exemption from premiums should be
eliminated or at least limited to those spouses who stay at home to raise
children.

   V. STATUTORY HEALTH INSURANCE - VOLUNTARY INSURANCE

 Statutory health insurance also includes, to a very limited extent, a certain
amount of voluntary insurance. If their compulsory insurance or dependents'
insurance ends, those previously insured may remain a voluntary member in
statutory health insurance plan if their dependents or their own compulsory
insurance terminates. This applies especially to employees whose wages exceed
the compulsory insurance limit or have become self-employed. The insured's
spouse and children can apply for voluntary insurance if their coverage under
the dependents' insurance ends, as long as the person has been in the health
insurance plan for a sufficiently long time.

   In statutory health insurance, approximately sixty-two percent of those
insured are compulsorily insured and about nine percent are voluntarily insured.
Twenty-nine percent of all inhabitants are covered by non-contributory
dependents' insurance.

   VI. STATUTORY HEALTH INSURANCE - IN-KIND BENEFITS AND SERVICES

 Those compulsorily insured and those voluntarily insured - including members of
their family - are equally eligible for in-kind benefits and services
(Sachleistungen-und Dienstleistungen). Statutory health  [*677]  insurance
offers services for the prevention and early detection of certain diseases as
well as comprehensive coverage to treat diseases. The insured are entitled to
treatment, particularly for the following services:



   . Medical treatment and a free choice of panel doctor



. Psychotherapy



. Dental treatment including dentures, also with a free choice of panel dentists




. Orthodontic treatment such as braces



. In-patient hospital treatment



. Medication



. Dressings



. Remedial services such as massages and physiotherapy



. Auxiliary aids such as wheelchairs, artificial limbs or hearing aids



. Medical Rehabilitation such as spa treatments



. Artificial insemination



. Maternity services

 Sickness pay (Krankengeld) is paid only to workers if an employee is unable to
work. The employer continues to pay the employee's wages or salary for six weeks
(Entgeltfortzahlung). After that time, the health insurance pays a sickness
benefit. This totals seventy percent of the employee's regular wages or salary
but not more than ninety percent of take-home pay. It is paid for a maximum of
seventy-eight weeks over a period of three years.

   Except for sickness pay, the insured and the insured's dependants who are
exempt from paying premiums receive all necessary services. There are neither
time limits nor payment limits. The services are granted independent of the
financial situation of the insured. Except in cases of self-mutilation, there is
no inquiry into the cause of illness. Medical care is given even if it results
from accidents in dangerous sports or from carelessness. If the illness is the
result of an industrial accident or an occupational disease, it is covered by
statutory workmen's compensation.

   The only things excluded from statutory health insurance are medicines for
common minor illness such as colds, laxatives or medicines against travel
sickness. For drugs, spa treatments and additional medical resources, there is a
slight individual co-pay for the insured. Thus, an insured person pays between
four and five Euro for medicines depending on the size of the package. Insured
persons must pay fifty percent towards dentures, and twenty percent towards
other orthodontic treatment. For  [*678]  in-patient treatment, the insured pays
nine Euro per day for a maximum of fourteen days per year. Beyond that, no
further out-of-pocket payment is required for outpatient or in-patient
treatment. Insured persons with below-average income may be exempt in hardship
cases from payment for treatment if their economic situation justifies it. This
income threshold is currently about 940 Euro per month.

   The quality and efficacy of the medical service or care given must correspond
to the general standard of present medical knowledge. If this is the case,
methods of treatment, medication and remedies of special therapies are not
excluded. Borderline cases give rise to numerous lawsuits.

   VII. THE "IN-KIND AND SERVICE PRINCIPLE"

 Persons insured receive services from their health insurance fund in-kind and
as services. Unlike private health insurance, the principle of cost
reimbursement is not applied in this context. In statutory health insurance, the
"in-kind and service principle" (Sach-und Dienstleis-tungsprinzip) is applied.
This principle is the sum of the relationship between the insured, their health
insurance fund and the associations of physicians.

   The "in-kind and service principle" states the following: the health
insurance funds are obliged to procure for insured persons the necessary
services and in-kind benefits. To this end, the health insurance funds conclude
contracts for those insured with associations of doctors, dentists, pharmacists,
hospital owners and other service organizations. These parties do not receive
payment directly from the insured. Payments are made by the health insurance
funds to associations. These associations then redistribute the money received
from health insurance funds to their members. Since the insured does not pay the
doctor directly, as a rule, the patient does not know the cost of the treatment.
This system is being criticized more and more. Some politicians are demanding
that patients should have greater cost awareness. For instance, each patient
should receive a list of treatment costs from his doctor.

   The cited system also furthers distribution conflicts among doctors. The
associations of health insurance funds and doctors establish the value of
individual services (e.g. ECG) through joint commissions. They determine whether
and at what level doctors may charge for new examination and treatment methods.
The associations also determine so-called "medical practice budgets" in which
they set the average number of services usually carried out per quarter year in
a doctor's office and determine what  [*679]  payment the doctor will receive.
If a doctor exceeds these average levels without sufficient reasons, he receives
no or only partial reimbursement for his services. A doctor's records are also
inspected to see whether their costs fall within specified averages. If an
uneconomical administration of medication is found, doctors may have to
compensate the insurance company.

   VIII. PRINCIPLE OF SOLIDARITY

 Hospitals in Germany are built by the state. However, statutory health
insurance finances all the operating costs of hospitals. These funds are
provided solely from contributions/premiums (Beitr<um a>ge) of the insured.
There are no state subsidies for statutory health funds.

   The premiums paid by the insured depend on the insureds' earnings and the
premium rate of the respective health insurance fund. Premium-relevant earnings
are the wages of compulsorily insured workers. In the case of retired persons,
relevant earnings come from the statutory Social Security insurance or the
company retirement fund. Other earnings, such as interest or rents, are not
counted toward compulsory insurance. Income above the upper rate, now set at
3375 Euro, is not used to calculate premiums. The premium rate differs from fund
to fund. It amounts on average to 13.5 percent. For example, an employee with a
gross income of 3,000 Euro pays 420 Euro a month, if the employee's fund is at a
premium rate of fourteen percent.

   An additional premium is not charged to cover dependents. Thus, the father of
five children pays the same premium as a bachelor who earns the same wages.
Furthermore, the amount of the premium is not decided on the basis of individual
risk of illness. Statutory health insurance has neither risk premiums nor
exclusion for specific conditions. A sick person pays the same premium as a
healthy person with the same income. Finally, the in-kind benefits and services
for all those insured are equal. Those who have a high income, and consequently
pay high premiums, do not receive more or better services than those who pay
lower premiums.

   Here we see a typical and basic principle for social insurance at work.
Statutory health insurance wants to create risk compensation through insurance
and it intends to create a social balance between the strong and the weak, the
poor and the rich, and the young and the old. It demands solidarity within the
community of insured people.

   A further structural principle of statutory health insurance has always been
the inclusion of employers. Employers are not only responsible for the cost
calculation and the transfer of premiums, but they also have to pay one half of
these premiums. So for example, with a premium of 420  [*680]  Euro for an
employee earning 3,000 Euro gross, the employer pays 210 Euro of the total
premium. The other 210 Euro are paid by the employee, usually by deducting it
from his salary and transferring it to the health insurance fund. A
corresponding procedure applies for pensioners. The Social Security insurance
bears half of the contributions of the pensioner. Voluntarily or privately
insured employees receive a contribution allowance from their employer to their
insurance holder. Thus labor costs are directly impacted by fluctuations in
health insurance premiums.

   IX. EXPENDITURES AND FINANCIAL PROBLEMS

 Just as in other countries, the costs of medical care have consistently
increased in Germany. The costs have outpaced wage increases resulting in higher
insurance premiums. The total expenditure on statutory health insurance in 1997
amounted to over 270 billion DM. This amounts to approximately 6,400 DM per
person and roughly 11.5 percent of gross national product. Approximately
forty-seven percent of total expenditures were borne by statutory health
insurance funds and only about five percent by private funds. The average
individual contribution to statutory health insurance has climbed from 8.2
percent of income in the year 1970 to 13.56 percent in the year 2000. Combined
contributions to social insurance, i.e. health, long term care, pensions and
unemployment insurance total over forty percent of income; of which employers
and employees share equally.

   There are several causes for this increase in costs, however, I would like to
focus on only a few. The average life expectancy of the population is
continually rising, in part because of medical progress. However the birth rate
and the number of workers is falling. Thus, the increase in the age of the
population has opened a gap between healthcare costs and revenue generation. The
progression of medical technology often leads to new, and sometimes costly,
methods of diagnosis and treatment methods. These do not only replace old
procedures with more efficient ones, but in many cases, they widen the available
spectrum of possible treatments through additional procedures.

   Also, although the population has been declining, the number of those
offering services has more than tripled over the last forty years. In 1960,
there were about 92,000 practicing physicians in Germany. In 1999, there were
291,171. In 1960, the doctor-inhabitant ratio was 1 to 793, in 1988, it was 1 to
286. Of the approximately 291,000 physicians practicing in 1989, roughly 126,000
were in private practice. Further 137,000 doctors worked in hospitals and the
remainder for the authorities or in other areas.

    [*681]  Each supplier creates demand for his services and in the process
increases the services offered on the market. Thus supply and demand theory
should limit the number of doctors and dentists to present needs. Whether this
need-based limitation would stand before the Federal Constitutional Court is
doubtful. Up to now, the Constitutional Court has derived a right of qualified
doctors and dentists to be part of the health insurance system as a panel doctor
from the basic right to professional freedom. The reason for this is that
statutory health insurance has a factual monopoly over the German public health
sector. Anyone who wants to work as a physician or dentist in Germany is
practically dependent on treating persons insured by statutory health insurance.
If the doctor is not allowed to do so, he is essentially unable to practice. The
points discussed so far have affected the increases in health insurance fund
costs and the decline in health insurance fund revenues. Also contributing to
the problem is the persistently high unemployment rate - in excess of ten
percent - and the increase in the number of self-employed workers over the
years.

   Many of these developments are not new. However, the speed of medical and
technical progress and social change is new. For example, an economically united
Europe makes the costs of labor and, more importantly, non-wage labor costs more
comparable. The costs of health care under work contracts are now seen as an
element directly impacting competition, investments and location decisions.
Therefore, countries with a low cost of health care are - ceteris paribus - in a
position to produce goods at a lower cost. It is understandable that politicians
and parts of the industry are endeavoring to prevent further cost increases in
public health or are looking for new sources of revenue. On the other hand, many
industrial sectors and professional groups profit from these increases and,
consequently, oppose savings measures that could affect their own field. The
health sector has itself become an important sector of business.

   X. PRESENT REFORM DISCUSSION

 On the revenue side, there are suggestions to raise the current compulsory
insurance limit (Versicherungspflichtgrenze) from 3,375 Euro to roughly 4,500
Euro a month. This would mean that many employees would become compulsorily
insured, who up to now could opt for private insurance. This would mean an
expansion of individuals in statutory health insurance and also a higher level
of covered earnings. Private insurance companies are understandably resistant to
such plans. They fear a considerable loss of policy holders. This "no-conflict
zone"  [*682]  ("Friedensgrenze") between statutory and private health
insurances would shift at the expense of private health insurance companies.
High-income employees are also resisting this expansion of covered earnings;
they see themselves robbed of the chance to take out cheaper private insurance,
especially singles, who cannot take advantage of family insurance policies.

   In addition, there are some plans to calculate the premiums of those subject
to compulsory insurance based on their entire income, including their salary and
pension. This is already the case for voluntarily insured persons. This would
require new methods for premium payment, since an employer could not know what
to deduct from an employee's salary. Each insured would have to disclose his
entire income to the health insurance fund. Some also fear that such an
expansion of covered earnings punishes those who have behaved responsibly and
who protect themselves through savings and private precautionary measures.

   The employer associations demand that the current employer premiums
(Arbeitgeberbeitrag) be "frozen" and paid out to the employee in the form of a
single salary increase. In the future, the entire health insurance premium would
then be the responsibility of the employee alone. This would have the economic
advantage of eliminating increases in health insurance contributions that
directly impact on labor costs. On the other hand, employees would have to be
compensated to pay for increases in health insurance costs, likely through
collective bargaining. Whether this would succeed seems doubtful. In any case,
the risk of cost increases in the public health sector would be shifted to
employees alone. An essential structural element of statutory health insurance,
the joint responsibility of employers and employees for a common, but
financially viable health care would be abandoned.

   Another suggestion for reform concerns the present type of financing. The
discussion is centered on demographic development. In Germany, this is
characterized by an increasing percentage of elderly people in the population.
Fewer and fewer gainfully employed persons must provide pensions and social
security of the older generation. Additionally, the highest healthcare costs
occur in the later years of life. For these reasons, there are discussions about
giving up the present pay-as-you-go principle (Umlageverfahren). At present, the
health insurance funds' income is immediately spent on services. Political
efforts are underway to supplement this type of financing by a fully funded
system (Kapitaldeckungsverfahren), in hopes of making the financial state of the
health insurance less dependent on the ups and downs of the business cycle and
on the current number of workers. However, there is no answer  [*683]  on how to
raise the necessary additional funds to supply the necessary capital.

   Finally, there are plans to split the current spectrum of services into basic
and optional services. Statutory health insurance would continue to be
responsible for basic health care. The insured would be responsible for optional
services. Private insurance companies are particularly interested in this model.
They hope to create a new market for the insurance of optional health services
not covered by statutory health insurance. On its face this model strengthens
individual freedom and responsibility. It is doubtful, however, whether this
model could actually ease the situation of statutory health insurance or whether
it would simply mean that overall costs would go up even more. Also, it remains
to be seen whether the insured would actually be willing, and financially able
to assume responsibility for their own health care. It is not likely that a
division into basic and optional services would go hand-in-hand with a reduction
of current premiums causing individuals to have more funds to spend. Finally, it
is debatable whether a consensus could be achieved regarding which services are
basic and which are "luxuries." This decision is left to legislators. Such a
decision touches the elementary rights of the persons insured and cannot be left
to negotiations between the health insurance funds and associations of service
providers. Past experience does not suggest that parliament will muster the
strength to take such a far-reaching position that would fundamentally change
the existing system.

   The system of statutory health insurance has endured numerous economic
downturns as well as two World Wars. We must hope that it can also survive the
present times of relative prosperity and find the strength to carry out the
necessary adjustments. Conferences like "The Ethics of Health Care" can
contribute to that end. A comparison of the systems of different countries can
shed new light on the questions: What is unnecessary ballast in the current
system, what is worthy of being retained and what can we learn from other
systems?


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewLabor & Employment
LawDisability & Unemployment InsuranceUnemployment CompensationClaim
ProceduresWorkers' Compensation & SSDICompensabilityInjuriesOccupational
Diseases


                              355 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Janesville Gazette (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday

Co-op hopes to ease health insurance costs

BYLINE: Jim Leute, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 601 words


Nov. 6--JANESVILLE -- The high cost and low availability of health insurance in
southern Wisconsin are major concerns of small business owners that a new health
insurance co-operative plans to tackle.

Chambers of commerce in Rock, Walworth, Green, Jefferson, Dane and Dodge
counties have formed Healthy Communities Cooperative, a health insurance
initiative focused on delivering high quality, affordable health care to
participating companies.

Forward Janesville is not one of the nine participating chambers of commerce. It
is working on its own health insurance program that eventually will be available
to small businesses.

The co-op is an independent corporation run by a board of directors elected from
the participating communities.

It became possible when Wisconsin passed a landmark co-op care law that allows
cooperatives to bargain for adequate, cost-effective health insurance for
agricultural producers and small businesses.

The local board's first goal is to lower medical insurance costs with the
bargaining power that could come from 1,000 employees, said Jacki Seversen,
president of Healthy Communities Cooperative and a group benefits representative
at Schwartz & Shea Insurance in Janesville.

The co-op is negotiating with several insurance companies and health management
firms. It hopes to designate a carrier by Dec. 1 and implement the program next
summer.

According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, insurers of small health
plans have higher administrative expenses than those that insure larger group
plans, and employees at small companies are less likely to have coverage than
employees at larger companies.

"The cost of health care is consistently ranked at the top of chamber members'
concerns," Seversen said.

"Under this new health insurance co-op, even small business members will benefit
from possible preferred insurance rates not available in the traditional market,
especially at renewal due to the wellness component of the plan that rewards
positive healthy lifestyle changes."

Wellness is a critical component of the program, Seversen said. Too often, she
said, small business owners get slapped with huge premium increases without the
opportunity to understand them or do anything to lower them.

"The whole idea is to give credit where credit is due and offer a carrot for
being a good consumer of health care," Seversen said. "Most plans for small
employers offer no incentives to be healthier, and the backbone of this program
will be small companies who want to work to change things around."

Starting with a health risk assessment, those insured by the plan will play an
active role in keeping their health insurance rates under control by
participating in the wellness program, she said. The goal is to identify
lifestyle choices that help people improve their health.

The program coordinates existing community programs, resources and activities,
along with education on proper diet and exercise, to promote healthier
lifestyles and reduce future claims.

TO LEARN MORE

Visit www.healthycommunitiescoop.org or call the chambers of commerce in Beloit,
Brodhead, Delavan, East Troy, Evansville, Fort Atkinson, Jefferson, Milton or
Whitewater.

To see more of The Janesville Gazette, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.gazetteextra.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20081106-JG-Co-op-hopes-to-ease-health-insurance-costs-1106

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JG


                     Copyright 2008 The Janesville Gazette


                              356 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 3, 1989, Sunday, Final Edition

Pushing for National Health;
Companies, Reeling From Costs, Increasingly Favor Some Form of U.S. Insurance

BYLINE: Frank Swoboda, Albert B. Crenshaw, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE H1

LENGTH: 1436 words


or decades, national health insurance was organized labor's dream and big
business's nightmare.

But now executives at some of the nation's largest companies are beginning to
rethink their earlier conviction after years of living with an even more painful
reality -- the skyrocketing cost of employee health care plans.

These rising employee medical costs, said Art Puccini, vice president of labor
relations at General Electric Co., in a speech early this year, "may lead some
of us who today are free-market advocates to re-examine our thinking and
positions with respect to government-sponsored national health insurance."

In the six months since Puccini delivered his warning to a management conference
in Florida, corporate America, with a major push from organized labor, appears
to be moving toward a political conversion that could lead to the biggest
extension of government health care since the creation of Medicare in the early
1960s.

The motives of both labor and management are largely self-interest -- companies
want the cost off their books and workers want it out of their paychecks.

"It's a balance sheet issue," says Karen Ignagni of the AFL-CIO. "They
[companies] want to get it off their balance sheet and onto someone else's."

Whatever the motive, labor is perfectly happy to have business support for
government health insurance. The AFL-CIO will use its national convention in
November to kick off a major campaign for national health insurance legislation
in the next Congress.

In many contracts being negotiated, labor and management are writing in language
requiring them to work together toward some form of government solution to
health care. In the new contract between the Communications Workers of America
and American Telephone & Telegraph Co., for example, the two sides pledged to
"mutually work to achieve prompt and lasting national solutions" to the health
care cost "crisis."

"I think we're on the verge of a historic opportunity in health care," Ignagni
said.

It remains far from clear what form such a program would take. Some proponents
would like government to take over the nation's health care system entirely, but
support for that is not broad and, in the current budgetary climate, its
prospects remain essentially nil. Still, some form of mandated insurance
coverage by employers is gaining support, possibly coupled with a stronger
government role in regulating costs.

The corporate charge for some form of government health care program -- few
advocates call it national health insurance anymore -- is being led by the auto
industry. Chrysler Chairman Lee Iacocca has moved his top health insurance
expert to Washington for the upcoming legislative campaign. Ford has been using
its seat on President Bush's competitiveness council to push for government
health care and Capitol Hill lobbyists are reporting regular sightings of
General Motors Vice President Beach Hall at various meetings on the issue.

Although the cost of providing health care to employees of the car manufacturers
is among the highest, they are by no means the only ones concerned.

"A lot of people outside the auto industry are beginning to look at national
health insurance as not so bad," said an executive from one of the nation's
largest manufacturing firms who did not want to be identified.

Three years ago, he said, his company was "totally against" any form of
government health program. Now, given the sharp rise in health costs, "we're
willing to take a look at it."

Behind the companies' sudden shift is their realization that the cost
-containment strategies of the 1980s have failed. Such widely touted devices as
co-payments by employees, second opinions for surgery, wellness programs and
case management slowed the pace of increases for a few years, but now they are
again climbing at rates of 20 percent a year and more.

For large companies, the costs are staggering.

At GE, for example, "health care costs per employee rose 17 percent in 1987 and
about 13 percent in 1988," Puccini said in his speech. The company's annual
health care expenditures are now approaching $ 950 million a year "and the
projected trend would suggest that another 20 to 25 percent increase is to be
expected in 1989," he said.

"That would mean a $ 200 million increase in one year -- even for a company like
GE, that is enormous," he said.

"We can't outsmart the doctors," said one top corporate official. "They're in
control. We've got to get it to the government level."

Even benefits specialists admit the programs they have helped initiate have
failed to cushion companies from the spiraling costs.

Company officials come in "and say we did everything you told us and now we're
looking at our third year of increases of more than 20 percent," said Michael
Carter at Hay/Huggins Co., a benefits consulting firm in Philadelphia. "They
say, 'What do we do now?' and I smile and say, 'Write your congressman and ask
for national health insurance.' "

The shift of opinion extends across the spectrum of corporate America.

"I'm kind of amazed, when I think back to five years ago, at the companies now
supporting some sort of national health rules," said Michael B. Jones of Hewitt
Associates, another benefits consultant.

Last May, the National Association of Manufacturers declared health costs "out
of control" and warned that they "threaten the nation's competitive position," a
theme being echoed by many corporations as they begin to turn to the government
for solutions.

Although most everyone agrees that the current system isn't working, not
everybody believes that national health insurance is the answer.

"I like to say, if you like your Postal Service, you'll love national health
insurance," said Thomas Burke, a former chief of staff at the Department of
Health and Human Services and now a private consultant with A. Foster Higgins &
Co.

The real problem, he and other critics say, is the actual cost of medical care,
rather than who pays it. All national health insurance would do is shift this
cost from business to government, they say.

The current system provides "perverse incentives" to doctors and other medical
care providers to run up costs, Burke said, and as long as it does, "you get
excesses."

"We can't let them set their own prices and create the demand" for their
services, he said.

And not all companies are convinced that national health insurance is the
answer, even those that are looking at it as a possible solution.

Hewitt's Jones said he sees the corporate thinking taking two tracks: While
some, like the big auto and steel companies, are overtly in favor of national
health insurance, others are "beginning to say that they will support, or not
actively oppose, mandated benefits."

The major legislative vehicle currently before Congress is a bill proposed by
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) that would require all employers to provide
minimal health insurance coverage for their employees. This year, however,
Kennedy expanded his bill to include anyone else who lacks coverage.
Approximately 35 million Americans have no health insurance.

Another major doubter of national health, though for different reasons, is the
American Medical Association. Pointing to Britain and Canada, where they contend
medical care is suffering and research is limited, Dr. Robert McAfee of the
AMA's board of trustees said "we are very much against" any system where doctors
work directly for the government or where the government directs care and
prescribes fees.

In fact, there is some agreement on the labor side that no program will work if
it restricts access to medical care.

"We will have failed if we create a system that makes everyone feel that they
have to leave their own doctor," said the AFL-CIO's Ignagni. "The AMA is going
to try and slaughter us. It's up to us to debunk a lot of these myths."

The Canadian system -- which centralizes the financing but not the delivery of
health care -- is drawing increased attention from U.S. corporations. The NAM,
for example, has suggested that the Canadian insurance plan should be studied.
"The Canadian system may not be ideal, but it is food for thought," an NAM
official said last week.

Businesses tend to like the Canadian system because it preserves more elements
of free enterprise than the British system, which is totally controlled by the
government.

However the political debate evolves, the rhetoric has already changed. Said
Hay/Huggins's Carter, "People are dealing with it head-on and nobody's screaming
'communist' anymore when you mention national health."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, TOM HERZBERG FOR TWP

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1989 The Washington Post


                              357 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                             March 25, 2011 Friday

Corporates share rising health premium with employees

BYLINE: MADHUSUDAN SAHOO

LENGTH: 442  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


As the group health insurance costs for India Inc have shot up significantly, by
around 25% in 2010, health insurers are making all-out efforts to reduce the
costs through new measures. The insurers are now adopting co-pay practice which
is not as prevalent in the country as it is in foreign countries.

For instance, co-pay arrangements require employers to share the health
insurance premium with the employee so that the former doesn't bear the burden
of rising premium.

However, as this practice of co-sharing the premium is not widespread in India,
the cost of health insurance premiums is largely borne by the employer wherever
it is a part of the benefit package..

"We have observed that co-pay practice in the health insurance has been
gradually picking up for last two years, but the penetration is still very low
in India as compared to other countries. It accounts for only 3-5% in the
country, while it is widely prevalent in foreign countries. Our aim is to bring
down the cost pressure on companies to around 10-15 % in 2-3 years, for which we
need to bring an awareness among individuals to increase this practice to at
least 40-50 % initially," said Apollo Munich Health CEO Antony Jacob.

If 10% co-pay practices are implemented in the country, then the costs of group
health insurance premiums on companies will be brought down to around 5-7%,"
said SS Gopalratnam, managing director, Cholamandalam General Insurance. It may
take 2-3 years to get fully implemented in India," Gopalratna added.

Sanjay Datta, head of Health Insurance of ICICI Lombard General Insurance
explained, "In India, only 8-10 companies are partially active in the co-pay
practice. I think as the cost of premium is so high, almost 90% of insured
(individual) in our country shy away putting in their premium money in health
care schemes. We are trying this new practice through group health schemes for
companies first, then on individuals later."

So the costs on companies have increased 15-25 % in 2010 compared with 9 % in
the previous year, according to a survey on health care trends by Towers Watson,
a multinational risk-management consulting firm. "Insurers are aligning their
group health insurance premium in line with the market trend, leading to an
increase in premium costs for the employers," said Kulin Patel, head (benefits)
of Towers Watson India.

In order to address the rising claims ratio, companies have started capping
maximum yearly limit on total claims amount and applying sub-limits on certain
claims. "Corporate buffer tops the list of actions that employers have
undertaken to ensure an efficient healthcare benefit system,"the survey said.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2011 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Record-Eagle (Traverse City, Michigan)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday

Officials try to cut health insurance costs

BYLINE: Brian McGillivary, The Record-Eagle, Traverse City, Mich.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 496 words


Dec. 12--TRAVERSE CITY -- Grand Traverse County employees and elected officials
could take home $1,000 to $1,400 in extra pay next year in an effort to trim
health insurance costs.

A board committee voted unanimously this week to pay all non-union employees
$2,000 if they opt not to take county health insurance. The county previously
paid $600 in lieu of health insurance for a single person and $1,000 to pass on
family coverage. It began increasing the amount to $2,000 this year in union
contracts.

"We felt $2,000 is a significant amount of money and people will take a hard
look at going with their spouse's insurance," county Commissioner Larry Inman
said.

It's also $500 or $1,000 more than Munson Medical Center offers its employees to
forgo health insurance, county Administrator Dennis Aloia said.

The county needs 12 more people to drop insurance to cover the increased
payments to about 30 employees, including three county commissioners who already
opt out of health insurance coverage.

"The only way to really know if it will save money is spring it out there for
next year and see who takes advantage of it," Inman said.

Health insurance policies for county employees cost taxpayers $4,927 for single
coverage, $11,000 for a couple and $13,440 for full family coverage.

Inman intended the boost to apply to the five county commissioners who don't
take health insurance, but the board can't make the change until 2011. Robert
Cooney, deputy county prosecutor, said state law prohibits commissioners from
making any changes to their compensation until their next term.

Free health insurance for commissioners is a hot topic that's divided the board.

Commissioners Larry Fleis, Bruce Hooper and Inman, who take the insurance, were
joined by Addison Wheelock Jr. and Dick Thomas in voting to maintain the
benefit. Commissioners Beth Friend, Christine Maxbauer, Mike Stepka and Ross
Richardson, who also takes the insurance, voted to eliminate free coverage.

Inman said he'll raise the compensation issue again early next year, and ask the
board to set its pay and benefits before the May filing deadline to run for
office. He doesn't expect the current majority to eliminate health insurance for
county commissioners, but said there is support to copy a proposal county road
commissioners will consider for themselves on Dec. 16.

Inman said he'll propose taxpayers cover 90 percent of the cost for single
coverage for county commissioners beginning in 2011. Commissioners would then
have to cover spouse or family coverage out of their own pockets.

To see more of The Record-Eagle or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.record-eagle.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Record-Eagle, Traverse
City, Mich. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091212-ZK-Officials-try-to-cut-health-insurance-costs-1212

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZK


                                 Copyright 2009


                              359 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Simply unsustainable Our view o Health insurance costs are eating U.S.
businesses alive.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: 0


In 1999, it cost about $5,800 to buy employer-provided family health insurance
coverage. If premiums had increased at the same rate as inflation, that same
policy today would cost $7,239.

Instead, it costs $13,375. That's an increase of 131 percent - more than five
times the overall rate of inflation.

Companies don't provide health benefits out of the goodness of their hearts.
They do it to attract the best workers and because healthy employees with
healthy families are more productive.

But when insurance costs grow at five times the rate of inflation, it's worth
wondering how much longer they can afford to do it. That question should send
shivers down workers' spines.

Since the early 1990s, the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation has been
surveying U.S. businesses about the cost of health benefits offered to
employees. Its latest survey, released this week, demonstrates why health reform
is so urgent.

Let's put premiums for family health insurance coverage into a human scale.

A person who worked full time at a minimum-wage job in Missouri would need his
entire gross wages from January until the second week of November just to buy a
policy - assuming he could get the group rate.

For about $3,000 less, he could buy a new car; a base model Hyundai Accent sells
for $10,665.

Of course, that minimum-wage worker never would be offered health benefits at
work. That's because employers pay about three-quarters of the premium for
health insurance that they offer their workers.

That means the minimum-wage worker's company would be paying about $9,860 for
his family's coverage, a figure equal to about two-thirds of his annual salary.

The cost of covering just that worker, excluding his family, would equal about
what he would earn for working almost 17 weeks.

No wonder so few companies that employ mostly low-wage workers offer health
benefits. The Kaiser survey found just 39 percent of companies with large
numbers of low-wage workers offer health benefits.

Workers at very small companies have only a slightly better chance. About 46
percent of companies with nine or fewer workers provide health benefits.

The result is that millions of Americans have been priced out of the health
insurance market.

About 46.3 million were uninsured in 2008. Current estimates based on the
unemployment rate put that figure at about 50 million uninsured today.

Covering them is one of the key goals of health reform. But another is to shore
up the current employment-based system of health insurance. The reform proposals
would create a so-called insurance exchange - essentially a giant group market
that would be open to small businesses, the uninsured and people who buy
coverage on their own.

Propping up the current system is crucial to the 150 million-plus Americans who
get coverage through their jobs. Because if health insurance premiums keep
growing at a rate anything like their recent pace, many people who now get
health insurance through their jobs would soon be uninsured.

Last year, consumer prices increased by 0.1 percent. Health insurance premiums
jumped by 5 percent. That's unsustainable.

If premiums keep growing at the rate they have over the last five years, family
coverage will cost more than $24,000 in 2019.

If they grow at the rate they have over the past 10 years - an average of 8.7
percent per year - family coverage would cost nearly $31,000 in 2019.

If that happens, it won't only be low-wage workers who are priced out of the
health insurance market. Millions of middle-class Americans would find
themselves uninsured, too.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                        SUNDAY TELEGRAM (Massachusetts)

                     February 27, 2005 Sunday, ALL EDITIONS

Health insurance cost is strangling the city

BYLINE: Robert Nemeth

SECTION: INSIGHT; ROBERT NEMETH; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 1185 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


The fastest growing item in Worcester's municipal budget has been the cost of
employee and retiree health benefits. The city pays 90 percent of insurance
premiums, the highest rate allowed by state law. One of City Manager Michael V.
O'Brien's greatest challenges this year is curtailing that skyrocketing cost -
something none of his predecessors has been able to do. Unless city and school
employees increase their contributions, municipal services will have to be cut
back for all residents.

Statistics tell the story. The cost of health insurance claimed 8.4 percent of
the fiscal 1996 city budget. Now it consumes 15 percent of the budget. Major
employers in the private sector dedicate about 5 percent of their budgets to
employee health benefits.

In the current fiscal year, Worcester's total health insurance cost is $64.4
million, a 10 percent jump from the previous year. In 1996, the city's
contribution to a Blue Cross/Blue Shield family plan, the most popular product,
was $5,406 per employee. Now it is $13,839.

In the current fiscal year, the average annual cost of health insurance to the
city is $9,923 per employee, while employees contribute only $1,379. Nine out of
10 of the city's active employees, 1,639 workers, are enrolled in a health
insurance plan. In addition, 40 percent of retired workers, a total of 2,437,
enjoy coverage, with the cost as high as $7,692 per retiree.

If the status quo in employee contribution percentages prevails, the projected
health insurance budget for fiscal 2006 will be $70.2 million, representing
another 9 percent increase. City workers' health insurance cost would increase
by $2.5 million, and that of school employees' by $3.3 million, for a total of
$5.8 million. Paying for those runaway expenditures means more tax dollars would
have to be diverted from municipal services.

Clearly, Worcester cannot afford to maintain the status quo. Mr. O'Brien wrote
in his budget message last year: "Every additional 1 percent in employee
contribution would save the city approximately $440,000. For just $5 a week for
an individual plan and $12 for a family plan, city employees would make $3.2
million available for core city services."

Speaking at a public forum sponsored by the Worcester Regional Research Bureau
last year, Eric A. Kriss, state secretary of administration and finance, noted
that Worcester city employees and teachers pay less than half of health benefit
costs employees in the private sector and other communities contribute, and
considerably less than state workers. "If Worcester moved to the 25 percent
share now in effect for new state employees, the city would save up to $9
million annually," he said.

"We have to change the way we've been doing business to avoid a budget crunch,"
the city manager told me last week.

Breaking the status quo won't be easy. But doing so would be one of the greatest
services Mr. O'Brien could provide for this community.

It has been said that people in Worcester don't like to get involved. While
various neighborhood groups pursue their own agendas vigorously, they seldom
look beyond their boundaries. Apathy has been reflected in woefully low voter
turnouts at city elections. There have been so few candidates for public office
that run-off elections are seldom necessary. Municipal boards and commissions
often have empty seats.

Given this climate of indifference, almost any form of citizen involvement is
welcome. That is why an informal group that calls itself Worcester InCity
Partnership has received favorable attention. Members describe themselves as
"private real estate and/or business owners committed to the development of the
downtown area and those neighborhoods immediately surrounding it." They say they
want to "take a more active role and become involved in our city government."
The mission statement posted on the Web site says: "Private sector striving for
an open and vibrant Worcester through accountability."

To learn more about the organization, I visited Bill Randell at Advantage
Benefits Group Inc., a business he owns on Pleasant Street, along with the
building in which the office is located, as well as two adjacent buildings. He
described himself as the "spokesman" for the group and said all others, about 15
or 20 people altogether, were "equals." However, he acknowledged he has been
doing most of the work promoting the organization.

The group began to form about a year ago. "A bunch of us downtown business
people began to talk about issues and see how we could make a difference. The
city seemed to pay attention to us," Mr. Randell said. They felt encouraged to
come up with an assortment of proposals, pursue political connections and make
use of the news media.

The group has no formal structure, no bylaws, officers, board of directors or a
budget. Yet its skillfully constructed Web site could make the casual observer
conclude that WIP was a city agency. Asked whether members belonged to the
Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Randell said in the past they had
seen no advantage in joining. "But now I'm scheduled to meet with Dick Kennedy
(president of the chamber) to explore membership opportunities," he added.

I met the fast-talking Mr. Randell in his office. He was casually dressed,
trying to balance telephone calls, conversations with employees and repairmen
(the roof was leaking that day) and talking with his visitor. He came across as
a hyperactive person, full of energy and ideas. His wife and partner, Vanessa,
sat in a glass-enclosed office at one end of a spacious room, with Tyler, a
retired greyhound, peacefully resting at her feet. "I just turned 40, lived in
Worcester my whole life, but left for four years at Boston College, after four
years at St. John's," he told me.

At first, the group concentrated on downtown issues. One recommendation was to
fit the Common with WI-FI, a wireless Internet access. Other ideas included
getting rid of bus stops around the Common, establishing parking spaces in front
of City Hall, and dropping plans for a maintenance shack next to the planned
skating rink on the Common. "We could borrow the Zamboni machine from the DCU
Center to groom the ice," he suggested.

Gradually, the group has switched its interest to the Worcester Regional
Airport, which now appears to be its primary concern. In a somewhat haphazard
fashion, Mr. Randell and his associates have been generating an avalanche of
plans for the airport. These efforts, leading to confusion and duplication at
times, have been met with a mixed reaction.

Worcester InCity Partnership deserves credit for its commitment and enthusiasm.
The group could provide useful service by developing sharply focused ideas to
promote through proper channels. It could offer well-thought-out suggestions for
consideration to the city manager and airport officials. It could enhance its
credibility by working within the system rather than trying to reform it from
the outside.

Robert Z. Nemeth's column appears regularly in the Sunday Telegram.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              361 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            March 11, 1995 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

$80 gap throws doubt on revised health package

BYLINE: ELIZABETH JURMAN in Canberra

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 513 words


The average out-of-pocket cost of a hospital stay was just $79.34, the
Department of Health revealed yesterday, sparking fresh doubts that planned new
insurance packages eliminating the gap would reverse the exodus from private
health cover.

The Government has maintained that the main reason for the health insurance
crisis was people abandoning their private health insurance because of
out-of-pocket costs and high premiums.

The Minister for Health, Dr Lawrence, hopes people will be seduced back into
buying private health insurance by her new, "better value" health insurance
packages, including packages covering the full cost of medical treatment.

The small cost that people bear after Medicare and health fund payments was
revealed by Department of Health officials at a Senate inquiry yesterday.

The proportion of people maintaining private health insurance fell dramatically
to 34 per cent last year, triggering a review of the Medicare funding agreement.
Medicare assumed that at least 40 per cent of Australians would maintain their
private cover.

Health Department officials also revealed yesterday that the average
out-of-pocket cost per bed day was $19.34, while the average medical charge was
16.9 per cent above the schedule fee.

The president of the Australian Medical Association (AMA), Dr Brendan Nelson,
said yesterday that two-thirds of people had no gap to pay following hospital
treatment. Most of the remaining third would be unlikely to take out insurance
to cover a gap of just $80.

A spokesman for the Australian Private Hospitals Association said yesterday that
the average gap per episode of hospital care was not a huge amount of money and
research showed the gap was not the major reason people dropped their private
health insurance.

"By far the major reason is the cost of premiums, and this legislation will only
lead to an increase in premiums," he said.

The Secretary of the Department of Health, Dr Stephen Duckett, has told the
Senate inquiry: "I would not like to guarantee that there would necessarily be
an X per cent reduction in premiums, when this bill still leaves a lot of power
in the hands of

private insurers."

According to the most recent report commissioned by the Health Insurance
Commission, most people dropped their private health insurance because it was
"too expensive", with five times more people abandoning insurance for this
reason than for any other.

Sixty-one per cent of respondents to a 1993 survey commissioned by the private
hospitals association said they had let their insurance lapse because it was
"too expensive" or they couldn't afford it.

Only 10 per cent said it was because the benefits were insufficient or the gap
was too large, with 15 per cent saying they didn't need health insurance or it
had not been worth it in the past.

Dr Nelson said another danger of the legislation was that unscrupulous doctors
would be free to charge as much as they liked under new contracts.

"If the AMA and I were only interested in the financial interest of doctors we
would be welcoming this legislation with open arms," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1995 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              New Vision (Kampala)

                           February 11, 2012 Saturday

Nation Needs National Health Insurance Scheme

BYLINE: Jairus Mugadu

LENGTH: 302 words


Health insurance, like any other kind of insurance, is an arrangement that
provides members with an opportunity to contribute to a fund that can be drawn
from when one is in need of medical care.

These contributions from members are referred to as premiums. Health insurance
participants share the financial burden of health care costs by pooling together
their financial resources.

Health insurance schemes are supposed to reduce unforeseeable health care costs
through regularly paid premiums. The social health insurance in most developed
countries started with formal sector employees in urban areas.

However, recently emerging health insurance schemes in developing countries are
community-based with voluntary membership.

Ghana started a national health insurance scheme in 2004. In addition to the
premium payments made by enrolled members, Ghana's scheme also draws funding
from the federal government.

Premium allocation is based on people's potential health care usage and their
ability to pay. Those who earn more pay more and vice versa.

Most developing countries have not been able to meet health care needs of their
poor population.

Shrinking budgetary support for health care services, inefficiency in public
health provision, and an unacceptable low quality of public health services are
some of the challenges facing the health sector.

With the abolition of cost sharing in public health facilities, it is not
uncommon to find stock-outs of essential medical supplies.

Starting a robust health insurance scheme takes decades and yet our people need
low cost quality medical care and we must give it.

A healthy mind is an indispensable prerequisite for productivity only if
thriving on a healthy body. The ministry of health needs all support as they
draft the best strategies to implement health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 3, 1989, Sunday, Final Edition

Pushing for National Health;
Companies, Reeling From Costs, Increasingly Favor Some Form of U.S. Insurance

BYLINE: Frank Swoboda, Albert B. Crenshaw, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE H1

LENGTH: 1436 words


For decades, national health insurance was organized labor's dream and big
business's nightmare.

But now executives at some of the nation's largest companies are beginning to
rethink their earlier conviction after years of living with an even more painful
reality -- the skyrocketing cost of employee health care plans.

These rising employee medical costs, said Art Puccini, vice president of labor
relations at General Electric Co., in a speech early this year, "may lead some
of us who today are free-market advocates to re-examine our thinking and
positions with respect to government-sponsored national health insurance."

In the six months since Puccini delivered his warning to a management conference
in Florida, corporate America, with a major push from organized labor, appears
to be moving toward a political conversion that could lead to the biggest
extension of government health care since the creation of Medicare in the early
1960s.

The motives of both labor and management are largely self-interest -- companies
want the cost off their books and workers want it out of their paychecks.

"It's a balance sheet issue," says Karen Ignagni of the AFL-CIO. "They
[companies] want to get it off their balance sheet and onto someone else's."

Whatever the motive, labor is perfectly happy to have business support for
government health insurance. The AFL-CIO will use its national convention in
November to kick off a major campaign for national health insurance legislation
in the next Congress.

In many contracts being negotiated, labor and management are writing in language
requiring them to work together toward some form of government solution to
health care. In the new contract between the Communications Workers of America
and American Telephone & Telegraph Co., for example, the two sides pledged to
"mutually work to achieve prompt and lasting national solutions" to the health
care cost "crisis."

"I think we're on the verge of a historic opportunity in health care," Ignagni
said.

It remains far from clear what form such a program would take. Some proponents
would like government to take over the nation's health care system entirely, but
support for that is not broad and, in the current budgetary climate, its
prospects remain essentially nil. Still, some form of mandated insurance
coverage by employers is gaining support, possibly coupled with a stronger
government role in regulating costs.

The corporate charge for some form of government health care program -- few
advocates call it national health insurance anymore -- is being led by the auto
industry. Chrysler Chairman Lee Iacocca has moved his top health insurance
expert to Washington for the upcoming legislative campaign. Ford has been using
its seat on President Bush's competitiveness council to push for government
health care and Capitol Hill lobbyists are reporting regular sightings of
General Motors Vice President Beach Hall at various meetings on the issue.

Although the cost of providing health care to employees of the car manufacturers
is among the highest, they are by no means the only ones concerned.

"A lot of people outside the auto industry are beginning to look at national
health insurance as not so bad," said an executive from one of the nation's
largest manufacturing firms who did not want to be identified.

Three years ago, he said, his company was "totally against" any form of
government health program. Now, given the sharp rise in health costs, "we're
willing to take a look at it."

Behind the companies' sudden shift is their realization that the cost
-containment strategies of the 1980s have failed. Such widely touted devices as
co-payments by employees, second opinions for surgery, wellness programs and
case management slowed the pace of increases for a few years, but now they are
again climbing at rates of 20 percent a year and more.

For large companies, the costs are staggering.

At GE, for example, "health care costs per employee rose 17 percent in 1987 and
about 13 percent in 1988," Puccini said in his speech. The company's annual
health care expenditures are now approaching $ 950 million a year "and the
projected trend would suggest that another 20 to 25 percent increase is to be
expected in 1989," he said.

"That would mean a $ 200 million increase in one year -- even for a company like
GE, that is enormous," he said.

"We can't outsmart the doctors," said one top corporate official. "They're in
control. We've got to get it to the government level."

Even benefits specialists admit the programs they have helped initiate have
failed to cushion companies from the spiraling costs.

Company officials come in "and say we did everything you told us and now we're
looking at our third year of increases of more than 20 percent," said Michael
Carter at Hay/Huggins Co., a benefits consulting firm in Philadelphia. "They
say, 'What do we do now?' and I smile and say, 'Write your congressman and ask
for national health insurance.' "

The shift of opinion extends across the spectrum of corporate America.

"I'm kind of amazed, when I think back to five years ago, at the companies now
supporting some sort of national health rules," said Michael B. Jones of Hewitt
Associates, another benefits consultant.

Last May, the National Association of Manufacturers declared health costs "out
of control" and warned that they "threaten the nation's competitive position," a
theme being echoed by many corporations as they begin to turn to the government
for solutions.

Although most everyone agrees that the current system isn't working, not
everybody believes that national health insurance is the answer.

"I like to say, if you like your Postal Service, you'll love national health
insurance," said Thomas Burke, a former chief of staff at the Department of
Health and Human Services and now a private consultant with A. Foster Higgins &
Co.

The real problem, he and other critics say, is the actual cost of medical care,
rather than who pays it. All national health insurance would do is shift this
cost from business to government, they say.

The current system provides "perverse incentives" to doctors and other medical
care providers to run up costs, Burke said, and as long as it does, "you get
excesses."

"We can't let them set their own prices and create the demand" for their
services, he said.

And not all companies are convinced that national health insurance is the
answer, even those that are looking at it as a possible solution.

Hewitt's Jones said he sees the corporate thinking taking two tracks: While
some, like the big auto and steel companies, are overtly in favor of national
health insurance, others are "beginning to say that they will support, or not
actively oppose, mandated benefits."

The major legislative vehicle currently before Congress is a bill proposed by
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) that would require all employers to provide
minimal health insurance coverage for their employees. This year, however,
Kennedy expanded his bill to include anyone else who lacks coverage.
Approximately 35 million Americans have no health insurance.

Another major doubter of national health, though for different reasons, is the
American Medical Association. Pointing to Britain and Canada, where they contend
medical care is suffering and research is limited, Dr. Robert McAfee of the
AMA's board of trustees said "we are very much against" any system where doctors
work directly for the government or where the government directs care and
prescribes fees.

In fact, there is some agreement on the labor side that no program will work if
it restricts access to medical care.

"We will have failed if we create a system that makes everyone feel that they
have to leave their own doctor," said the AFL-CIO's Ignagni. "The AMA is going
to try and slaughter us. It's up to us to debunk a lot of these myths."

The Canadian system -- which centralizes the financing but not the delivery of
health care -- is drawing increased attention from U.S. corporations. The NAM,
for example, has suggested that the Canadian insurance plan should be studied.
"The Canadian system may not be ideal, but it is food for thought," an NAM
official said last week.

Businesses tend to like the Canadian system because it preserves more elements
of free enterprise than the British system, which is totally controlled by the
government.

However the political debate evolves, the rhetoric has already changed. Said
Hay/Huggins's Carter, "People are dealing with it head-on and nobody's screaming
'communist' anymore when you mention national health."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, TOM HERZBERG FOR TWP

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1989 The Washington Post


                              364 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday

Prepare yourself for retirement health costs

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 636 words


Q. You recently wrote that health insurance in retirement might cost about
$200,000. Won't Medicare cover those costs?

R.B.,

via the Internet

A.

A lot of people make this mistake. They assume Medicare covers all health care
costs in retirement. They also assume their employers will be helping out with
insurance after they finish working.

Neither is true. Only about 11 percent of companies provide any health insurance
to former employees after they retire, and most that do are looking at cutting
the benefit.

And Medicare does not cover all medical costs. There can be sizable deductibles,
and some care isn't covered at all. Many seniors buy supplemental insurance to
pick up where Medicare leaves off. The premiums for that currently cost about
$150 a month to $300 a month per person, depending on the state where you live.

There is drug coverage, too. You might have heard that there is new prescription
drug coverage free to seniors. But it's not entirely free: Retirees still pay
part of the cost. By some estimates, that will average about $900 a year.

The $202,000 health-insurance cost you are referring to is an estimate created
by Paul Fronstin, a researcher for the Employee Benefit Research Institute. He
looked at health care costs rising 7 percent to 10 percent a year, and
calculated what health insurance -- including drug coverage -- would cost
retirees throughout retirement. For a person retiring in 2014 it would be
$202,000 if he or she lived to 80.

Yet financial planners currently are advising people to consider having enough
money to cover expenses to age 90 or 100. Fronstin estimates that if you retire
in 2014 and live to 90, you will need $381,000 in savings simply for health
insurance.

Figuring out how long you will live in retirement is difficult, but if your
parents have lived into their late 70s or 80s, you might assume a lengthy
retirement for yourself.

Q.

You mentioned a new exchange-traded fund that invests in commodities. How do I
find it, and what's the ticker?

M.M.,

via the Internet

A.

The Deutsche Bank Commodity Index ETF trades under the symbol DBC.

You can buy it through a broker, or on the Internet through an online brokerage
firm.

Although this is the first exchange-traded fund that invests in commodities,
additional funds like it are expected soon.

Exchange-traded funds are like index mutual funds. They usually invest in
multiple stocks, but increasingly they are taking different approaches. The
commodities index, for example, invests in futures.

As ETFs become more plentiful and more complex, it's important to pay attention
to what you are buying. People use them as an easy way to invest in a certain
sector, or type of investment, like commodities. But each is different. Pay
attention to the composition and fees.

For help researching them, try www.morningstar.com.

Q.

Is there anywhere that I can turn for scholarship funding for the disabled? My
son has a neurological problem.

K.K.,

via the Internet

A.

For a wide variety of scholarships, including those for disabled people, visit
FastWeb (www.fastweb.com). On this Web site you can indicate qualities or
talents of students and the database provides a list of possible scholarships.

Also, FinAid.com has a section on disabilities and provides vocational
resources.

The site's director, Mark Kantrowitz, suggested these possible sources based on
the latest information in his database: the HEATH Resource Center, Tourism Cares
for Tomorrow, the Incight Go-Getter Scholarship(www.incight.org), Patient
Advocate Foundation (www.patientadvocate.org), Special People in Need
scholarship, and the Yes I Can! Foundation for Exceptional Children
(http://yesican.sped.org).

For the Special People scholarship, you must be nominated by a school.

Chicago Tribune columnist Gail MarksJarvis can be reached at
gmarksjarvis@tribune.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                              June 12, 2017 Monday
                                 Second Edition

Health costs soar as cuts start to bite

SECTION: MAI; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 285  words


More than a million Australians are paying up to $3000 more for private health
insurance as a result of government means tests, age penalties and subsidy cuts.

Government health insurance penalties are more than doubling the cost of health
cover for some at a time when rising premiums are forcing people to drop their
insurance.

For some, these penalties are pushing their health insurance costs up from about
$3000 to more than $6100.

And when coupled with premium rises more than three times the inflation rate,
they are helping to drive an exodus from health cover.

The proportion of the population with health insurance has started to fall for
the first time in 17 years, threatening to send health fund membership into a
death spiral.

But two years after the Federal Government set up a private health insurance
reform process, little has eventuated.

An investigation of the effect of government health insurance penalties has
found tens of thousands of Australians lost access to some or all of the 25 per
cent private health insurance tax rebate under a means test introduced in 2012.

As a result they are paying up to $1077 a year more for their cover. If they
also delayed taking out their health insurance until late in life, they could be
paying a government Lifetime Health Cover penalty of up to 70 per cent or $2100.

More than one million Australians are paying this LHC penalty that increases the
price of insurance by 2 per cent for every year they delayed taking out cover
after they turned 30.

The Government has also cut the subsidy it provides for health insurance from 30
per cent to 25 per cent, adding a further $166 to the cost of health insurance
by indexing it at a rate lower than premium rises.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2017 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                            November 24, 2014 Monday

Sharp rise in additional, private health insurance costs

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 466 words


The cost per household for supplementary health insurance from one's public
health fund and for commercial (private) health insurance increased
significantly - by 8.5 percent - in 2013, compared to only 4% in 2012.

This is a likely sign that public insurance coverage is not regarded by citizens
as enough and that accessibility to care from the public health funds and
hospitals is declining.

The data, from a Health Ministry report issued on Sunday, induced Health
Minister Yael German - who is currently struggling in the cabinet against
growing privatization in healthcare - to say: "Again, we see a sharp and
unjustified rise in household expenses on healthcare. This expenditure is
directly tied to the increase in operations in the private sector and feeds it."

German continued that only integrative treatment by the authorities will be able
to restrict the rise in operations in private medical institutions.

"Passing our proposed reform in health insurance will bring about a reduction in
the cost-of-health index of Israeli families and with it the cost-of-living
index," she said.

The health minister said it was urgent to pass the Treasury's Arrangements Bill,
which would tax private medical care and limit the uncontrolled growth in the
use of private medical insurance.

Dr. Leonid Eidelman, chairman of the Israel Medical Association, added his
comments on German's statement.

"There is a reason for the rise in household costs for health insurance that the
health minister does not disclose, but we all know what it is - the lengthening
in queues for surgery in the public hospitals. One can wait for months or even
years for an [elective] operation, so patients go to private hospitals."

Eidelman added that "the rate of hospital beds per population has dropped by 3%
in the last five years. It is the lowest in the Western world. So what is the
surprise that household costs for health insurance are rising? It seems that
private medicine is growing and [so the government] finds a method for reducing
it - [by] setting quotas for surgery in the private hospitals. Then fewer
patients will go to private hospitals, and the queue for surgery in the public
hospitals will increase. And [thus] the suffering will lengthen. That is the
'solution' of the government," Eidelman said with irony.

The IMA chairman demanded that instead, the Treasury must increase allocations
for public medical institutions.

The official report said that the real cost of commercial and supplementary
health insurance totaled NIS 800 million in 2013 - more than in 2012. In 2013,
the average percentage of household income spent on dental care and medications
was the same as in 1997. The share spent on eyeglasses and contact lenses even
went down between 1997 and 2013 - from 0.3% to 0.4% of household income.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Post-Star (Glens Falls, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 11, 2013 Monday

Obamacare tax on health insurance plans concerns school officials

BYLINE: Omar Ricardo Aquije, The Post-Star, Glens Falls, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words


Feb. 11--Area school officials are trying to figure out how to avoid paying a 40
percent penalty, adding up to millions of dollars, for exceeding a limit on the
cost of health insurance, which starts in 2018 under Obamacare.

School districts, or any employer offering health insurance, will be paying
taxes and fees associated with Obamacare. But in five years, the largest of the
penalties, nicknamed the "Cadillac tax," will start.

If the cost of health insurance exceeds a certain amount to a covered employee,
the amount over the threshhold will be taxed 40 percent, officials said.

That's a concern to area school districts, where health insurance costs are
among other major expenses that are difficult to control and are on the rise.

Thirty area school districts buy health insurance together as a consortium, and
they are on pace to exceed the threshold that triggers the new tax.

Using current numbers, a 40 percent tax equals $12 million for the consortium,
said Timothy Place, chairman of the consortium's executive committee and the
deputy district superintendent of the local BOCES.

"I think it's a huge concern because our initial estimate for the trust could be
around $12 million of a tax," Place said. "That means you're not getting any
more benefits than you are now. You are just going to pay that much more money
in order to continue to offer those (benefits)."

The consortium was created in the 1980s to offer districts a cheaper option for
buying health insurance. Almost every area school district has joined. This
year, the consortium will spend more than $100 million, and, at the moment,
districts are budgeting for a 12 percent increase for 2013-14.

Stephen Meier, a member of the consortium's executive committee and the director
of business at Glens Falls schools, said consortium officials are trying to
figure out a way to avoid paying the new tax. He said the consortium wants to
put something in place as soon as possible.

"We are aware of it and we are trying to think about what we can do within the
confines of all our contracts to address it going forward," Meier said.

For the time being, the consortium is budgeting for smaller fees and taxes for
2013-14 and beyond through Obamacare.

The health insurance provider pays the fees and taxes, but then passes the
expense on to the consortium. Those fees and taxes are expected to increase
nearly 2 percent for next year, and most of it is from Obamacare, Place said.

"Our first goal is to understand the affordable care act, understand how it
impacts our trust, and then take that information and say, 'How do we need to
change so we don't incur additional costs?'" Place said. "The costs we incur in
providing health coverage are unsustainable, but to have a tax where nobody is
getting an additional benefit is something we want to avoid."

James Watson, superintendent of Whitehall, a district that has been in the
consortium since it was created, said districts may cut hours of employees to
reduce the cost of health insurance.

"Better to cut health insurance than jobs," Watson said. "It will become the
norm."

Penalties, however, are applied when employers don't offer health insurance,
Place said.

"Overall, this was a huge legislation that really at the heart of it is a
redistribution of monies," Place said. "I think its primary goal of providing
affordable health insurance for everyone is admirable, but I think what was not
apparent in the beginning is how much taxes and fees would impact people who
have plans."

___ (c)2013 The Post Star (Glens Falls, N.Y.) Visit The Post Star (Glens Falls,
N.Y.) at www.poststar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130211-GN-Obamacare-tax-on-health-insurance
-plans-concerns-school-officials-20130211

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GN


                          Copyright 2013 The Post-Star


                              368 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 19, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

STATE WORKERS TO PAY 10% SHARE OF INSURANCE IN COST-SAVING MOVE

BYLINE: By DAMON STETSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 755 words


New York State's 190,000 employees will pay 10 percent of health insurance
premiums for individual coverage under a major restructuring of the state's
health insurance program, the state's Director of Employee Relations said
yesterday. The state had formerly paid the full cost.

The director, Meyer S. Frucher, said that the cost-sharing and other changes
would produce savings of $142 million over the next two and a quarter years. He
described the new arrangement as a landmark step at a time of reduced state
revenues and rising health costs.

Many public employers and major companies in private industry have been paying
the full cost of health insurance, but they have been looking for ways to gain
relief and better control of health expenses in the face of sharply rising
costs.

''We did it,'' Mr. Frucher said.  The projected savings, he said, would be
achieved through the employee cost-sharing and other administrative and
legislative changes. The size of deductibles, the amount the insured workers
must pay before coverage begins, will be increased.

The new payroll deductions, which will start Jan. 1, range from $2.31 to $2.73
twice a month.  The agreement with the unions involved also includes incentives
to reduce questionable hospital admissions and to discourage unnecessary
surgery. It establishes a waiting period before employees are eligible for
coverage and coordinates benefits to preclude submission of claims by employees
for spouses who have other coverage.

The state made it known months ago that, because of skyrocketing costs, it would
not be able to continue indefinitely its practice of paying in full any premium
increases.

In the last two years, health insurance costs have risen 60 percent, with the
premium liability for 1982 expected to reach $288 million. In the face of such
costs, the state sought relief and Mr.  Frucher worked out the agreement on the
cost-sharing features in negotiations with the six unions representing state
employees. He said the projected savings under the restructured program would
keep next year's costs to the state at about the same level as this year's.
Donald Wasserman, collective bargaining director for the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees in Washington, said that in the typical
arrangement, public employers such as states and cities picked up the total cost
of health insurance for individual employees and shared the cost of dependents'
insurance. New York City picks up the full cost, he noted.

Deborah Lamm, director of health programs for the United States Conference of
Mayors, said she thought most larger cities paid for the full cost of employees'
health insurance but that in smaller ones the cost of premiums might be shared.

Harry DeLibero, chairman of the negotiating team for the Public Employees
Federation, said that the unions had originally objected to the concept of cost
-sharing but that they realized the problem of immensely higher premiums must be
confronted. The negotiations ended in a compromise, he said, but the
restructured arrangement begins to address some of the areas in which costs can
be controlled to a greater degree in the future. In addition, he said, the new
plan provides some improvements in coverage.

Governor Carey, acting on the recommendation of the State Council on Employee
Health Insurance, chose to exclude about 63,000 retired state employees and
those who will retire before Jan. 1 from the 10 percent payment requirement for
individual coverage.

Some Coverage Expanded

Besides the 10 percent payment, employees will continue to pay 25 percent of the
dependent component of family coverage.  The state at the same time will expand
coverage in such areas as out-patient psychiatric care, treatment of alcoholism
and drug abuse and services provided by certified psychiatric social workers.

Other components of the program are: Effective Jan. 1, the deductible for major
medical coverage will be increased to $100 from $75 for individuals, and to $300
from $225 for families; a 28-day waiting period will be established before a new
employee is eligible for coverage and second surgical opinions will be mandated
for certain elective procedures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                            November 23, 2007 Friday
                                  Mich Edition

Voice of the People

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 635 words


Here's how to end decline in subscribers


As a 40-year subscriber to The Tribune, I have noticed a decline in pages,
articles and readable reporters. What with the huge competition from TV,
computers, faxes, etc., it is apparent that newspaper readership is on a
decline. In my opinion, this is something that The Tribune can rectify. First of
all, as an amateur writer with no formal training, I know that to be successful
as a writer you have to step on some toes to get people's attention. Take the
case of one of your, at times, vitriolic staff writers, Nancy Sulok. She had a
style that I enjoyed. Evidently, she stepped on some toes. And presto, she no
longer has a column. If you don't step on toes who cares what you have to write?
Some of your old sports writers have become blasé and heaven forbid they say
anything bad about Notre Dame or the football team or program. Enter sports
columnists Jeff Carroll and Jason Kelly (sounds like a comedy act). But these
two young sports writers are not blasé (boring) and are not afraid to tell it
like it is about Notre Dame or any other sport they cover. Writers cannot let
their boss dictate, and if they are not threatened to be punched out by coaches
at least twice a year, they are not doing their jobs. Charles "Van" Fisher


South Bend

Compassion

Why did President Bush veto the State Children's Health Insurance Program? Why
is he against health care for poor children?

Health costs have increased 78 percent since 2001, making health insurance
unaffordable to millions of people in our country. On average, families pay more
than $12,000 per year for health insurance. Due to these high costs, many
employers do not provide health insurance, leaving 22 million full-time workers
without health insurance in 2006. Last year, 47 million Americans had no health
insurance.

Despite broad public and bipartisan congressional support of SCHIP, the Bush
administration objects to insuring poor children. President Bush claims it costs
too much to insure our children. Did it cost too much to provide tax breaks to
our wealthiest 1 percent that decimates our coffers by $475 billion between 2002
and 2010? The president demanded those tax breaks. The same president now vetoes
SCHIP. Is this the same president who labeled himself a compassionate
conservative?

The Bush administration goes all out to protect the profits of its friends in
big insurance companies while leaving millions of children behind. What's so
compassionate about denying health care to needy children?

Alan Engel

Granger

Remodeling

I hear Roseland's council chambers are undergoing remodeling. Canvas, rope and a
bell - looks a lot like a boxing ring.

Ray Chamberlin

Mishawaka

Tradition

Excuse me, but in reading University of Notre Dame football Coach Charlie Weis'
comments on Nov. 5, two days after losing to Navy, I couldn't help but comment.
He seems to be trying to make a strong point of the fact that he does not worry
about records or history, and that his kids feel the same. They don't worry
about 43 years of history, they just worry about now. History means nothing to
Weis or to his team. That's a real eye-opener if he actually believes that. The
University of Notre Dame is all about history; and a great history that should
not and cannot be forgotten. I was thinking that not too many years ago a Notre
Dame coach and team would have kicked that field goal, regardless of wind or
yards needed because that was the magic of the Irish. Often, they made those
miracle moments happen. That's how they built that incredible history. Once you
choose to ignore it and put it aside and not even bring it to the forefront,
you've lost everything tied to tradition. And tradition is what Notre Dame is
all about. Forget that, and you are like everyone else.

Donna Gruber

South Bend

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Third try at private healthcare rise rides on vote of crossbench

BYLINE: Phillip Coorey CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words


THE cost of private health insurance will rise for middle- and high-income
earners after the May budget if three lower house independents can be persuaded
to agree to means-test the 30 per cent rebate. After the Treasurer, Wayne Swan,
confirmed the government would try for a third time in the May 10 budget to
means-test the rebate, the Greens said they would wave the legislation through
the Senate, which they will control after July 1. Those on higher incomes could
also be hit with increased childcare costs with the government not denying
speculation the budget will means-test or cap the childcare rebate. As a
minister, Julia Gillard fought moves to cap the childcare rebate in previous
budgets because it was a productivity measure that kept people, especially
women, in work. But so parlous is the state of this year's budget, and so
determined is the government to return it to surplus in 2012-13, that everything
is now fair game, one source said.

"Given the cuts they are asking me to accept, I wouldn't be surprised at
anything," one minister said. The government is pushing ahead with a tough
budget despite cost of living pressures and poor polls. Last night the Prime
Minister appeared on two commercial current affairs TV programs to try and
assuage pensioner concerns about the affordability of basic living costs.
Childcare and private health insurance are among the remaining so-called
middle-class welfare measures yet to be means tested. The Rudd government
flagged the health insurance means test in the 2009 budget but the legislation
was twice blocked by the Senate and has been dormant since. The means test is
worth $2 billion to the budget over four years. The Greens have always supported
the means test and will do so again. "The Australian Greens do not believe that
the private health insurance rebate represents good policy in terms of health or
economic outcomes. This is a position supported by Treasury," the Greens health
spokeswoman, Rachel Siewert, said. "We believe we would be better off directing
the money into our public health systems. Our public health system and health
workers are struggling because of the lack of resources, with billions being
channelled into the private health insurance industry." With the Senate no
longer a problem for the government after July 1, it now needs the support of
four of the six lower house crossbenchers who are already being lobbied by the
Australian Health Insurance Association to oppose the measure. The Greens MP
Adam Bandt will support it, meaning the government needs three out of Tony
Windsor, Rob Oakeshott, Tony Crook, Andrew Wilkie and Bob Katter to vote in
favour. All five yesterday were non-committal but Mr Katter said he was inclined
to oppose the measure because of cost of living concerns, which are now a hot
political issue. Already, the government is facing cost of living campaigns
associated with its plans for a carbon tax, the mining tax and the one-off flood
levy that begins on July 1. The health insurance rebate would begin to phase out
for singles on $80,000 or more and couples with a combined income of $160,000.
The chief executive of the Australian Health Insurance Association, Michael
Armitage, said the means test would drive up all health insurance costs to make
up for those who would drop their cover. $679m Saving for government in 2011-12
if the private health rebate is means tested $705m Saving in 2012-13

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                             Politifact.com Edition

HEALTH INSURERS GET A SMALL PERCENTAGE OF OVERALL HEALTH CARE SPENDING

BYLINE: LOUIS JACOBSON

SECTION: POLITIFACT

LENGTH: 1095 words


"Health insurance companies' costs are only 4 percent of all health care
spending."

America's Health Insurance Plans on Thursday, March 11th, 2010 in an
advertisement

* * *

THE RULING: TRUE

As the battle over health care reform approaches a climax, America's Health
Insurance Plans -- the trade group for the private health-insurance industry --
began airing a new ad highlighting statistics on what actually goes into the
nation's health care spending.

Here's the full text of AHIP's ad:

"What's inside the health care cost pie? Some in Washington say it's all health
insurance. But health care insurance is one of the smallest slices. Health
insurance companies' costs are only 4 percent of all health care spending.
Doctors, hospitals, medicines and tests are the biggest slices, and a government
report says their rising prices are the primary driver of higher health care
costs. If Washington wants to make health care more affordable, they need to
look at the whole health care pie, not just a slice."

This ad touches on a bunch of controversial and complex issues in just 30
seconds. But for our fact-check, we'll focus on a narrow question: Is AHIP
correct when it says that "health insurance companies' costs amount to only 4
percent of all health care spending"?

We looked at data from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, a part of
the federal Department of Health and Human Services. Every year, CMS's Office of
the Actuary produces statistics on "national health expenditures" and the items
that make up those purchases. That's the source that AHIP cited in the ad, and
one that's considered credible by independent experts.

The full breakdown for 2008 is posted on the CMS Web site. We'll recap the data
here.

In 2008, total national health expenditures in the United States -- the
combination of money spent by consumers out of pocket, by private insurers and
by local, state and federal governments -- exceeded $2.3 trillion. Of that, $92
billion went for the cost of private health insurance. "Cost" in this case
refers to overhead and profits -- not to any of the dollars that are funneled
through insurers' accounts on behalf of their patients. It also excludes any
overhead by government-run insurers such as CMS itself, which signs the checks
for Medicare and Medicaid.

If you divide private insurance costs by total expenditures, it works out to 3.9
percent -- almost exactly what AHIP said. For comparison's sake, hospitals
accounted for 30.7 percent of spending, professional services (including
doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinical services) accounted for 31.3
percent, and retail sales of drugs and other medical products accounted for 12.8
percent.

To see whether the figures for 2009 changed the equation much, we checked in
with John A. Poisal, deputy director of national health statistics in the CMS
actuary's office. He said the updated but not-yet-posted numbers were nearly
$2.5 trillion in total expenditures and $90.2 billion in insurance costs. That
works out to 3.6 percent. Rounded up, that's once again as AHIP portrayed it.

Next, we scrutinized the total health expenditure figure. In addition to
including such factors as doctors, hospitals and medicines, this amount includes
dollars spent on nursing homes and home health care; governmental public health
activities; medical research; and medical-related construction projects. Since
these items are somewhat extraneous to the costs that AHIP is discussing in its
ad, we decided to run the numbers without these factors included.

For 2008, insurance costs divided by health expenditures other than those
removed above amounted to 4.8 percent. Even when rounded up, 5 percent is close
to the 4 percent AHIP cited, and it's a percentage far below what hospitals,
doctors and pharmaceuticals claimed.

For 2009, the numbers are much the same, working out to 4.5 percent.

We weighed whether it made any sense to divide private insurance costs by total
private health insurance expenditures -- a number that excludes all expenses
paid by the government, by consumers out of their own pockets, and by other
private sources, such as foundations. When you make that calculation, the answer
is 11.7 percent for 2008 and 11.1 percent in 2009 -- almost three times as high
as AHIP's cited rate.

Ultimately, though, we concluded that AHIP's numbers more accurately reflect the
question it poses. When you're asking what health expenditures could conceivably
be trimmed for cost-control purposes, there's no reason to exempt Medicare,
Medicaid and other non-private expenditures from consideration.

Even if it's correct, not everyone in the health policy arena believes that
AHIP's calculation is relevant.

Linda Blumberg, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, said "what we should be
looking at is the insurer return to capital. ... They make a lot of money
relative to what they invest, and they do almost nothing for that money to hold
down the growth in health care spending."

Meanwhile, some critics suggest that when AHIP points the finger at doctors and
hospitals for health care cost inflation, it ignores its own role. Insurers,
after all, sign the checks and could presumably use greater leverage to keep
costs down.

However, our conclusion here doesn't argue one way or another on the question of
whether private health insurance could be run more efficiently, whether private
insurers should take on a bigger or a smaller role in the health care system, or
whether more money should be spent for, say, doctors instead of insurance costs.
We are merely checking whether AHIP provided accurate figures to answer the
question it raised. And as far as we can tell, the group did. So we rate the
claim in AHIP's ad True.

* * *

About this statement:

Published: Friday, March 12th, 2010 at 11:45 a.m.

Subjects: Health Care

Sources: America's Health Insurance Plans, "Pie" television ad, released March
9, 2010; Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, tables on national health
expenditures, accessed March 11, 2010; The Wonk Room blog, "Health Insurers
Spend Millions On Ad Campaign In Order To Argue That They're Frugal" (blog
post), March 11, 2010; Interviews with John A. Poisal, deputy director of
national health statistics in the Office of the Actuary at the Center for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, March 10 and March 11, 2010; Interview with
Lawrence Platt, spokesman for America's Health Insurance Plans, March 10, 2010;
E-mail interview with Linda Blumberg, senior fellow at the Urban Institute,
March 11, 2010

Researched by: Alex Holt, Louis Jacobson

Edited by: Morris Kennedy

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIDEO - YouTube: A new ad from America's Health Insurance Plans
analyzes health care spending. PHOTO (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2010 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

Consumers move to health cash plans but it's wise to check for side-effects

SECTION: FINANCE; Personal Finance; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1069 words


Shrinking pay packets have seen consumers switching to lower levels of health
cover and using the savings to take out health cash plans, writes CAROLINE
MADDEN

A COMBINATION of shrink- ing pay packets and higher premiums has forced many
households to cut back on private health insurance.

One trend emerging is that consumers are switching to lower levels of cover
or, more worryingly, dropping their private health insurance altogether   and
using the savings to take out cheap health cash plans.

Traditional private health insurance products are primarily designed to cover
in-patient  healthcare costs such as hospital stays and major operations,
whereas health cash plans focus on providing cash payments for routine
day-to-day  out-patient  expenses such as visits to GPs and other health
practitioners such as dentists and physiotherapists. Cash plans can be an ideal
complement to private health insurance.

The main provider of health cash plans in Ireland is the Hospital Saturday Fund
(HSF) Health Plan (www.hsf.ie), and it currently covers just over 100,000 people
in the Republic.

The majority of these contribute through an employer scheme, but it s possible
for individuals to join directly.

One of the attractions with us is that we are, by comparison, very low cost,
says Roy Smith of the HSF.  This year again we ve frozen our prices.

In fact HSF, which donates its surpluses to charitable causes every year, hasn t
increased its prices for the last five years. Given the hefty price hikes
announced by health insurers VHI Healthcare and Quinn-healthcare late last year,
this will be music to consumers  ears.

HSF offers seven different plans, with premiums ranging from EUR 9.50 to EUR 55
a month, which translates into annual costs of between EUR 114 and EUR 660 a
year.

The level of cover is linked to the premium that the customer chooses to pay.
The top-of-the-range plan, known as Scheme 5500, pays for half of all dental and
optical care costs up to a maximum of EUR 550 a year. Other benefit under this
scheme include a cash payment of EUR 32 for each visit to the GP or emergency
department (with a maximum of 10 visits covered a year), EUR 16 towards the cost
of up to four prescriptions a year, and a birth grant of EUR 800.

One of the key advantages of the HSF cash plans is that their premiums are not
dependent on the number of people included on a policy. They can, therefore,
prove extremely cost-effective for large families because a contributor can add
their spouse or partner, and all dependant children up to 18 to their plan at no
extra cost. As a result, parents with several young children who are likely to
make frequent trips to the doctor s surgery and pharmacy could easily find that
their cash plan more than pays for itself each year.

Some private health insurance plans provide a certain level of out-patient
cover, for example reimbursing a certain level of GP, consultant or
physiotherapy fees, in addition to hospital cover. However consumers should bear
in mind that there is usually an  excess  amount of several hundred euro that
they will have to pay themselves before their private health insurance kicks in.

In the case of Hibernian Aviva Health s  we plan  health insurance policy, an
out-patient excess of EUR 250 applies per family. With Quinn Healthcare
Essential Plus, the family excess is EUR 440, and with VHI Healthcare Plans A to
C, the excess is EUR 250 per person. However, if a family has supplemented their
health insurance with a cash plan it will go some way towards covering the costs
that they are unable to claim on their health insurance.

Several health insurers offer  day-to-day  health insurance products which can
be bought as standalone products, or as add-ons to the consumer s main hospital
plan. For example, VHI Healthcare s HealthSteps range is specifically designed
to cover out-patient expenses.

One advantage of this type of product is that premiums qualify for tax relief at
20 per cent (as is the case with all private health insurance premiums), whereas
contributions to health cash plans do not qualify for any such relief.

Despite this, day-to-day plans aren t necessarily better value than cash plans,
and it s important to weigh up the benefits, and the level of cover offered,
before making a decision.

For example, both types of plans (health cash plans and  day-to-day  health
insurance products) generally cover dental, optical and GP costs, but the number
of visits and the maximum amounts that can be claimed vary widely.

Furthermore, some of the more advanced HSF health cash plans offer extra
benefits such as personal injury cover, and all of their plans pay grants for
hospital stays, so consumers should assess their family s specific medical
requirements before choosing the product that best suits them.

The nightly grants paid by HSF for overnight stays in hospital range from EUR 20
to EUR 120, and go some way towards covering the  out-of-pocket  expenses that
can quickly mount when a family member is hospitalised, such as overnight
accommodation and meals for parents, emergency childcare and parking charges.

A cash plan can help to bridge the gap between the total costs arising from
hospital stays, and what the patient s private health insurance will pay out.

Ideally, health cash plans should be used to supplement private health insurance
rather than replace it.

Although they can help to alleviate the burden of everyday medical costs, for
families in particular, health cash plans are not designed to cover the  big
ticket  health costs such as major surgery or hospital bills.

Despite this major drawback, more people are eschewing expensive private health
insurance in favour of low-cost cash plans   because it s all they can afford.

We re seeing a change, certainly compared to this time last year,  says the HSF
s Smith.  In the past I would say the majority of our contributors were joining
us to complement their private medical [insurance], but now there seems to be a
bit of shift away from that.

People are saying  I can t afford the private medical anymore,  or  I ve never
had insurance, I ve looked at that premium, it s beyond my reach. What
alternatives are there?  So we are plugging a gap.

Although health cash plans may be enticingly cheap, and are better than having
no health cover at all, consumers must make sure they fully understand the
limitations of these products before signing up.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           February 28, 2004 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Insurance slug adds $150 to family's yearly health bill

BYLINE: Cosima Marriner, and Natasha Wallace

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 512 words


Families will have to pay about an extra $150 a year for private health
insurance after the industry regulator agreed to a rise of almost 8 per cent in
the average cost of premiums.

The Private Health Insurance Administration Council granted every rate rise
sought by the health funds in the annual industry price review. It said the
"considerable" increases in health costs in the last year justified the rises.

However, the average 7.58 per cent price rise agreed to is more than the annual
health inflation rate of 6.9 per cent, and overall inflation of only 2.4 per
cent.

Depending on the fund and the policy, the price increases will take effect in
April or May.

Australia's largest fund, Medibank Private, will put its premiums up by an
average of 8.95 per cent on April 5 while the cost of MBF health cover will rise
an average of 5.8 per cent from April 1. Other funds are yet to announce their
premium rises.

The Government said its 30 per cent private health insurance rebate would keep
the extra cost to average families to under $150 a year. Without the rebate, it
said, private health cover would cost at least $800 a year more.

The Health Minister, Tony Abbott, conceded the increase in premiums would put
more pressure on Medicare. "Obviously that's true," he said. He said consumers
were getting an excellent service and blamed the rise on increasing medical
costs, not inefficiency in the sector.

"No one likes to see price rises," Mr Abbott said. "Today's premium increases
are necessary to ensure that health funds stay viable."

Hospital treatment costs rose 9 per cent last year, medical benefits 11 per
cent, medical devices 28 per cent and the total cost of chemotherapy treatments
increased by 40 per cent, according to the Australian Health Insurance
Association.

The association's chief, Russell Schneider, said: "I think that the Australian
community, the insured community, appreciate the value of their health insurance
and I think they're intelligent enough to appreciate that the cost of health
care goes up

and it has to be paid for."

Labor labelled the price rise "the latest instalment of the Howard Government's
string of broken promises" and called on the Government to put pressure on the
private health insurers to keep the cost of premiums down.

The Democrats said the latest premium rise would cost taxpayers an extra $181
million in the Government's rebate.

Mr Abbott has asked the regulator and the Department of Health and Ageing to
crack down on funds with "significantly higher than average" management
expenses. These funds will have to report on how they are cutting their
management costs over the next year to bring them in line with the industry
average.

Medibank Private spent $207,000 on management expenses last year, MBF spent
$149,000, BUPA $75,000, NIB $62,000 and HCF $52,000.

GOING FOR THE DOCTOR

 Average rise in health fund premiums:

 2001   no increase

 2002   6.9%

 2003   7.4%

 2004   7.58%

 Health inflation rate  6.9%

 Overall inflation rate 2.4%

 Source: Private Health Insurance Administration Council, Australian Bureau of
Statistics


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TABLE: GOING FOR THE DOCTOR - Average rise in health fund premiums
Source: Private Health Insurance Administration Council, Australian Bureau of
Statistics

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      East Valley Tribune (Mesa, Arizona)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday

High-tech Rx for hospitals: Health care industry looks to cure rising costs

BYLINE: Edward Gately, The Tribune, Mesa, Ariz.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 3104 words


Aug. 20--When people think of technology in health care, usually what comes to
mind are rapidly advancing treatments that could one day cure diseases like
diabetes and AIDS.

But technology, as well as innovation, has the potential to play a big role in
controlling increasing health care costs, say professors in the School of Health
Management and Policy in the W.P. Carey School of Business at Arizona State
University.

Technology and innovation also offer the best hope for easing the ongoing
conflict between health care providers and consumers over health care costs.

Bradford Kirkman-Liff, a professor of health policy and biotechnology, said
rising health care costs can be attributed to:

--Hospitals raising their fees in response to lower payments from Medicare,
Medicaid and managed care.

--Hospitals paying more for labor because of the ongoing health care worker
shortage.

--Increases in malpractice insurance.

--Higher costs for new drugs and larger investments in new technology to improve
care.

But another fundamental part of the equation involves how the industry itself
operates, he said.

"We provide patients with, in a sense, many, many choices," Kirkman-Liff said.
"Because of that choice, we have a very complex system and that means it is in
some ways a system that is more complex, requires more administration, more
paperwork, more telephone calls, etc. There's no centralized decision making.
There's very little coordination or planning. So our system, in terms of how
it's organized in some ways, is inefficient because everyone has all these
choices."

Hospitals are "very much behind" in using technology to improve their supply
chain, said Eugene Schneller, a professor who focuses on health care supply
chain management. Supply chain management involves improving the way a company
gets the materials it needs to make a product or service, and deliver it to
customers.

"If you think of the companies that have been most successful in the last few
years, like Amazon.com and Dell Computer, those companies have really improved
because they've really used so many new information technologies to reduce
transaction costs and to become much more efficient."

Banner Health spokesman Bill Byron said his organization is implementing several
systems that use technology to help control costs.

"The proper description would be technology that improves efficiencies to better
control costs," he said. "That doesn't mean costs aren't going to rise."

VICIOUS CYCLE

Many people say they're experiencing rising health care costs, according to an
August 2005 report by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, a Menlo Park,
Calif.-based, nonprofit organization that focuses on major health care issues.

Sixty-six percent of Americans with health insurance say their premiums have
increased over the past five years, including 38 percent who say their premiums
have gone up "a lot." About half of insured adults say their copayments for
provider visits and health insurance deductibles have risen during that period,
the Kaiser report said.

Rising health care costs are leaving more Americans without health insurance and
that in turn is creating higher premiums for those with health insurance, said
Kathleen Stoll, director of health policy for Families USA, a national,
nonprofit organization that advocates "high-quality, affordable health care for
all Americans."

"Because about 65 percent of health insurance is provided by employers, as
health care costs rise and health insurance costs rise, that impacts employers,"
she said. "Probably the impact is felt more by small employers than large
employers, and that does lead employers to do a number of things. They may
reduce the amount of coverage they provide or they may drop coverage. They can
reduce benefits they cover and they can ask their employees to pay more out of
pocket."

Nearly 48 million Americans were uninsured last year, including about 973,000
Arizonans, according to Families USA.

"More people are going to show up in emergency rooms," Stoll said. "They're
still going to get sick and they're going to need health care, and in turn the
folks who do have health insurance feel the impact of people who are uninsured
in their premiums. Those costs get passed on by hospitals in part in how they
negotiate rates with insurance companies, and then insurance companies pass
those on to (their policyholders)."

In 2005, health insurance premiums in Arizona for a family with private,
employersponsored coverage were nearly $1,300 higher because of the unpaid cost
of health care for the uninsured. Premiums for individual health insurance
coverage in Arizona were $477 higher.

By 2010, health insurance premiums for families in Arizona with private,
employersponsored coverage are expected to be $2,028 higher, while premiums for
individual health insurance coverage in Arizona are expected to be $726 higher.

TECHNOLOGY CAN HELP

Hospitals in general are way behind other industries in investing in technology
to improve the way they do business, Schneller said.

"Hospitals have been very slow to link up clinical, managerial and financial
data, whereas other industries . . . they've totally integrated those aspects of
their supply chain and the health care system hasn't," he said.

When it comes to fostering innovation and experimentation, the health care
industry should be at the front of the curve rather than at the back, Schneller
said.

"For example, there's been a real resistance to build specialty hospitals," he
said. "What we see in speciality hospitals is frequently they're managed much
more efficiently and they take advantage of many of the kinds of supply chain
advantages that others don't."

Information technologies can play a crucial role in increasing efficiency, said
Michael Surukawa, an assistant professor in the School of Health Management and
Policy. "There's big interest in electronic health records, or electronic
medical records instead of all of the paperbased records and charts, and test
results and other things," he said. "They're accessible and we can perhaps
reduce duplicate tests. We can provide information about drug allergies where we
can maybe prevent medication errors and so forth."

Banner Health is in the process of implementing electronic medical records in
all of its hospitals, Byron said. All Banner hospitals in the East Valley will
have electronic medical records by the end of 2008.

"We're trying to improve how information is documented and gathered, and
certainly retrieved in a single system, and that can include tests, medical
histories and medical images," he said. "They're available all in one place via
your bedside electronic medical record as opposed to having to go down to
radiology to try to get a hold of an image, or waiting to get the chart that has
the lab report."

Banner also has introduced I Care ICU, a virtual intensive care unit with a
control center adjacent to Banner Desert Medical Center in Mesa. "It assists in
the care of ICU patients at five facilities, including one in Colorado," Byron
said. "Not only does it visualize patients who are in selected I Care ICUs, but
it has monitoring that all comes into this central location. Toward the end of
2007 to early 2008, every single ICU bed is going to be a part of our I Care ICU
system. You will have command with a single source every single ICU bed in
Banner Health."

There's growing interest in the health care industry in implementing
computerized physician order entry, where doctors directly enter drug orders,
and medical errors from bad handwriting and wrong dosage can be avoided,
Surukawa said. "There's some of the new preventive technologies, the new genetic
testing for breast cancer and Alzheimer's disease," he said. "If we can catch
diseases much, much earlier, then we can treat them earlier and avoid a lot of
the costly surgeries and nursing homes, and institutionalization of people if
these diseases aren't caught until the later stages of progression."

-

CONTACT WRITER: (480) 898-6814

or egately@aztrib.com

Help on the Web

--Hospital Compare (www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov): Provides information on how
well hospitals in this area care for all their adult patients with certain
medical conditions.

--Families USA (www.familiesusa.org): Features health policy reports describing
the problems facing health care consumers and outlining steps to solve them.
(See the publications list).

Copyright (c) 2006, The Tribune, Mesa, Ariz. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Business News. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call
800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The
Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060820-MZ-0820-High-tech-Rx-for-hospitals

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MZ


                       Copyright 2006 East Valley Tribune


                              375 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                            July 21, 2005, Thursday

400,000 Patients' Medical Costs Exceed W5 Mil. Each

LENGTH: 254 words


   Nearly 400,000 patients spent more than 5 million won ($4,800) each in
medical expenses covered by national health insurance last year, health
authorities said Wednesday.

The National Health Insurance Corporation said the medical costs of 399,124
patients, which were covered by health insurance, exceeded 5 million won in
2004.

The number of those patients benefiting is up 43.1 percent from the 278,893 in
2003.

This means that only 0.8 percent of the nation's 47 million health insurance
subscribers received the insurance benefits worth 4.15 trillion won, or 19.9
percent of the total insurance coverage.

Among the high-cost patients, 247 persons' medical bills surpassed 100 million
won each.

''Among the 247 patients, 75 patients are hemophiliacs while 65 cases are
low-weight babies,'' said Joo Woo-suk, a deputy manager at the health
organization. He added that 20 infants' breathing problems is also among the
total.

Stomach cancer is the most common disease afflicting men while cerebral
paralysis comes in second. Kidney trouble, liver cancer and lung cancer are also
among the diseases men have most.

As for women, senile cataract is the No. 1 disease and cerebral paralysis ranks
second. Knee joint problems, breast cancer and kidney trouble are also among the
most common diseases.

''Men should change their lifestyles by quitting smoking and drinking, which are
main causes for liver and lung cancer, and women should exercise regularly to
enjoy healthier lives,'' he added.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2005 The Korea Times


                              376 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Where there's smoke, there's good reason for higher health premiums;
OPINION

BYLINE: Sophie Dyson and Jamie Reid - Consulting actuaries

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Opinion; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 786 words


Private health insurance premiums will increase this year by an average of 5.06
per cent - a rising expense further exacerbated for many policyholders by
means-testing of the government rebate.

Premiums will continue to rise faster than the consumer price index, not only
because the price of health services is increasing but also because we are using
more health services per person.

So it is a challenge to keep premiums affordable. One way to do this is to
discourage risky behaviours that could increase claim costs.

Smoking, for example, is the single most preventable cause of ill health and
death in Australia. Tobacco use causes almost 12 per cent of deaths - it is
estimated that smoking will kill at least half of all regular smokers - and
contributes almost 8 per cent to the burden of disease.

Governments have used several measures over the years to discourage people from
smoking, including advertising restrictions, taxes, preventative health
campaigns and plain packaging for cigarettes.

However, one bastion remains untouched - private health insurance.

This insurance is unique in the industry because it is "community rated" - that
is, we all pay the same premium, regardless of our underlying risk factors.
Community rating helps make insurance affordable to everyone, including those in
poor health. But is this fair when poor health is because of risky behaviours
such as smoking?

Most other kinds of insurance are "risk rated" - where actuaries estimate the
underlying risk associated with each person, and charge a fair premium. For
example, smokers pay more for term life insurance, reflecting the higher chance
they will die during the policy term.

Yet smokers pay the same community-rated premium for private health insurance as
non-smokers, which means if the cost of claims for smokers is higher than for
non-smokers, they are getting a free ride from the non-smokers who subsidise
their premium costs.

Should we consider charging smokers more for private health insurance? The
important questions are: Would it be fair? Would it undermine community rating?
And would it discourage smoking?

Although we know smokers have higher health costs than non-smokers, we cannot
easily quantify the relative cost to insurers because we do not know which
policyholders are smokers.

However, charging a corresponding fixed loading for smoking - regardless of age
and sex - could fund discounts for non-smokers, or allow insurers to provide
quit-smoking programs. It would not undermine community rating, as it would be a
flat loading regardless of other underlying risk factors.

More than 80 per cent of smokers become addicted to nicotine as teenagers. At
that age, if they are covered by private health insurance at all, "new smokers"
are likely to be on their parents' policies, so the premium cost would not be an
effective deterrent. Studies have also shown that older smokers are less
sensitive to an increase in cigarette prices than younger smokers.

Charging higher premiums for smokers may, however, reduce the number of smokers
with private health insurance. They are already less likely to purchase health
insurance compared with non-smokers, possibly because smoking is more common in
socio-economically disadvantaged groups. The difference is most extreme in the
45-54 age group, where 39 per cent of smokers have health insurance compared
with 68 per cent of non-smokers.

Charging smokers a higher premium may cause them to drop private health
insurance entirely, particularly younger smokers who may not value their health
insurance as highly. This would increase premiums for all policyholders, and
could push up the cost of healthcare to the government as smokers fall back on
the public system.

In all, though, charging higher premiums to smokers would not undermine the
principle of community rating on which our private health insurance system is
based, and would support government public health policy in this area. While it
is unlikely to have a significant impact on reducing smoking levels, it
recognises the higher health costs for smokers and reduces the cross-subsidy
that non-smokers pay to smokers as part of their private health insurance
premiums.

Private health insurance policyholders in the US pay much higher premiums if
they smoke or have a high body mass index. In some cases, applicants may be
denied cover altogether.

Following the health reforms introduced by the US President, Barack Obama,
premiums for a particular plan will only vary based on the number and ages of
people covered by the policy, the area where the policyholders live and any
tobacco use. Premiums for smokers could be up to 50 per cent more than for
non-smokers.

If it's good enough for Obama, why not for us?

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             June 17, 2000 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Hospital cover crunch;
WEEKEND MONEY

BYLINE: MARK METHERELL

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 990 words


The deadline is drawing close for people to choose whether or not to take out
health insurance.

Forget about GST and think about your health for a while. You have until June 30
to decide whether you are likely to need health insurance for the rest of your
life. If you are reading this, it's probably because - like many Australians -
you have put off a decision that could cost you thousands of dollars.

The older you are, the more financially important the decision becomes. June 30
is the deadline for fundamental changes to health insurance which force every
adult to think seriously about health cover.

These changes, the most important since Medicare was introduced 16 years ago,
cap measures aimed at prodding Australians to join a health fund or face higher
taxes and other costs. What Medicare did, which an increasing number of us came
to exploit, was to provide an easy option to pull out of insurance.

Millions departed, happy to rely on the public hospital system. For those who
could do without the comforts and certainty of private treatment on demand, it
was not a tough choice, particularly as there was no extra cost in getting back
into private insurance.

What ends on June 30 has been a feature central to Australia's health insurance
system until now - that everybody pays the same premium. On July 1, the
introduction of Lifetime Health Cover establishes a system of aged-based
penalties and perks, forcing us to reconsider health insurance as a serious
option.

Lifetime Health Cover means that those aged more than 30 who have not signed on
to a health fund by July 1 face an increasing impost for each year they hold
off. Premiums will rise by 2 per cent a year for late joiners, up to a maximum
70 per cent loading applying to those aged 65.

If you are 50 now and haven't signed up with a health fund by July 1, your
premiums will jump by at least 40 per cent if you join later.

The only people not affected are those who are born on or before July 1, 1934.
For Australians born after July 1, 1934, loadings could represent up to $1,000 a
year extra on conventional insurance policies. So Lifetime Health Cover is the
first and most urgent reason for Australians aged 30 and more to decide now.

By taking insurance at age 30, consumers lock in a basic rate for years to come.
But two other direct incentives introduced in recent years are aimed at
compelling the comfortably off towards health cover:

* The rebate - 30 per cent of your premiums, including hospital and ancillary
cover, are paid by the Government, reducing your costs by about $600 a year for
family cover ($300 for singles) for conventional health insurance - that is,
cover that doesn't exclude types of treatment or offer cheaper premiums in
return for big front-end, or excess, payments.

* The surcharge - if you earn more than $50,000 (single) or $100,000 (family)
and you do not have health insurance, you must pay an additional 1 per cent
Medicare levy surcharge. Even before considering out-of-pocket hospital costs,
those without health insurance on higher incomes face a minimum $500 (single) or
$1,000 (family) tax bill.

The snag here is that some cheap insurance policies do not clear you of
liability to pay the surcharge.

Last month the Government announced that low-cost policies with front-end
deductibles, or excesses of more than $500 (single) or $1,000 (family), would
not qualify for exemption from the surcharge where policies were taken out after
May 24 this year.

Those are the direct costs and savings to be considered. But the Health
Minister, Dr Wooldridge, also argues that health insurance reforms in recent
years have made private cover much more attractive.

A focus of Wooldridge's renovation of health insurance has been gap insurance,
which ends the surprise out-of-pocket medical "gap" costs confronting insured
patients after a hospital stay. Most big health funds have deals providing for
no-gap or "known" gap arrangements.

An example is that offered by Medibank Private. Under its Blue Ribbon plan,
costing a family a premium of $1,345 a year after the 30 per cent rebate is
deducted, surgery patients should face no extra costs.

That is provided all medical specialists, including surgeons, radiologists and
pathologists, are participating in the no-gap scheme. For a total hip
replacement operation in NSW, this would mean that the $8,300 in hospital bills,
including private room and theatre costs, the $8,500 cost of the artificial hip,
the $1,348 surgeon's bill and a $350 gap fee would be covered. For a cardiac
bypass operation, the $21,000 total hospital and surgical costs, including an
estimated surgeon's gap charge of $533, would be covered.

Widespread pitfalls remain, particularly in NSW where specialists have resisted
gap schemes.

Wooldridge argues that the thrust of this and other industry-wide measures are
forcing competition into health insurance, requiring it to be more
consumer-friendly, with simplified rules and more choice.

He's also asserting that a combination of regulatory change and increased
competition is likely to keep premium increases down in the foreseeable future.

Behind the transformation of health insurance lies what is emerging as a trend
that will push you towards private cover, particularly if you earn much above
the average income. The Federal Government's preference is for a thriving
private health sector to support what it says will remain a strong public
hospital system.

Significantly, the Opposition has, despite reservations, committed itself to
retaining the much-criticised 30 per cent rebate, which will cost taxpayers $2
billion next year, and to keeping Lifetime Health Cover.

Health insurance special Inside:

Impulse buyer beware

The wrong policy can cost you more than time and money

Don't get caught

Why it pays to know exactly what you're covered for

Doing your sums

Annette Sampson explains the pros and cons of self-insurance

Designer health care

The added extras come at a price

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)

                             August 16, 2009 Sunday

Toomey: Health focus should be cutting costs

BYLINE: Joe Napsha

LENGTH: 532 words


With the debate raging over health care reform, the government should
concentrate on cutting costs of health care, rather than endangering the current
insurance system, Republican U.S. senatorial candidate Patrick Toomey said
Saturday in Murrysville.

"Rather than turning the whole system upside down, and jeopardizing private
coverage many people have and are happy with, I think we should focus on
(reducing) costs," Toomey said during a brief campaign stop at the Murrysville
Community Days.

Tort reform is necessary because the system has been hurt by "tremendously
abusive lawsuits that add enormously to the cost of health care," said Toomey,
47, a former congressman from Leigh Valley. Without tort reform, there is not
only the direct costs of medical malpractice insurance and legal bills, but an
indirect cost of doctors conducting tests on patients to reduce the likelihood
of a lawsuit, he noted.

More competition among health insurance carriers -- by allowing consumers to
purchase health insurance plans regulated by other states -- will drive down the
costs, thus making that coverage more affordable to people who don't have it,
Toomey said.

"Some states have very onerous and expensive mandates that drive up the cost of
health insurance, and some states have very few. Their health insurance is much
more affordable. Why shouldn't Pennsylvania families get to decide which kind of
policy they want?" Toomey said.

"By lowering the costs, you are going to dramatically improve the number of
people who are insured," he added.

Toomey told a gathering of Westmoreland County Republicans, who had a tent at
community event, that he can not see how any member of the Pennsylvania
congressional delegation could vote for the carbon cap-and-trade bill -- the
American Clean Energy Security Act of 2009 -- which is designed to curb carbon
dioxide emissions. The House passed that bill by a narrow margin in June.

Toomey said the cap-and-trade system -- in which industries can sell or buy
permitted emissions up to the cap on those pollutants in a region -- will
significantly harm industries in Pennsylvania that rely upon coal production and
coal burning for energy.

Toomey's campaign excursion into Western Pennsylvania comes on the heels of a
new Rasmussen Reports poll showing the Republican challenger leading Sen. Arlen
Specter, the longtime Republican and recent Democrat convert, by 12 points in
the November 2010 race.

The polls show a dramatic turnaround for Toomey, who had trailed Specter by 11
points in the polls taken in June, prior to the recent battle over health care
reform.

Toomey is expected to face a challenge for the Republican party nomination from
Peg Luksik, 53, a conservative activist from Johnstown. She has announced her
intention to run for the party's nomination next spring.

Toomey's brief visit yesterday morning in Murrysville was part of a very busy
day for the Republican hopeful, who had spoken before a gathering of Young
Republicans in Green Tree. After leaving Murrysville, he was meeting with
Republican state committee persons in Lewistown, before ending the day in
Juniata County, where he was to meet with that county's Republicans at a picnic.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

PROVIDE OR PAY MEANS AFFORDABLE HEALTH INSURANCE

BYLINE: JUDY REED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; GUEST COLUMN; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 715 words


The Feb. 25 Capital Times article "Grass-roots group pitches health plan for
city" described the Provide or Pay health plan that our group is proposing for
Madison. Provide or Pay would ensure affordable, comprehensive health insurance
for everyone in Wisconsin, starting with people in Madison and its surrounding
communities.

Provide or Pay would not disrupt the health insurance plans already offered by
employers or by Medicaid and Medicare, but it would require all employers to
either provide health care coverage for employees or pay into a city fund that
would provide that coverage, along with premiums charged to individuals and
families. The city fund would bid out the health care coverage, using no public
funds.

The Capital Times article mentioned that we have estimated a possible cost to
our plan of 8 percent or so of payroll. We won't know the exact figure until an
actuarial study has been made of Madison and surrounding communities. But
actuarial studies of the states of Maryland and Wisconsin have shown employers'
costs to be 4.5 percent to 10 percent of payroll. The fact that the size of the
insurance pool in Madison and surrounding cities would be about 30,000 (Dane
County United estimates that about 32,000 people in the county do not have
health insurance) and that the pool would include healthy as well as sick people
would be major pluses in providing lower costs for Madison insurance.

The article mentioned that some city leaders may not support Provide or Pay
because it "violates laws controlling payroll taxes." We are not proposing a
payroll tax, but rather a fee for health insurance. Our attorney, Richard Yde of
the Stafford Rosenbaum law firm and one of Wisconsin's foremost specialists in
municipal law, tells us that cities and villages in Wisconsin can indeed
legislate a health insurance plan for people who live or work in their
communities as we propose.

We use the term "percent of payroll" as a way to give employers a general idea
of what they might pay for health insurance in our plan. Employers almost always
know what percentage of their payroll they are currently paying for health
insurance; thus they can easily compare their current costs to their potential
costs under Provide or Pay.

The Capital Times article also mentioned that we are considering trying to place
Provide or Pay on the fall ballot. If a majority of Madison's residents voted
for it, the city would then be required to move ahead with a health care plan
that covers everyone. We're also considering having a council member submit an
ordinance to the City Council to set up Provide or Pay. We know that the mayor
and the council members are very concerned about the health of Madison
residents; we also know how hard it is to find a way to address that concern
that will benefit residents and businesses alike. We are confident that the
Provide or Pay plan is such a way.

In fact, our proposal is decidedly pro-business: It would give a competitive
advantage to Madison businesses, which would have lower health insurance costs
and a much more stable risk pool than their competitors in other communities.
And as other cities and their regional communities follow Madison's lead,
businesses throughout Wisconsin would gain that competitive edge over other
states.

Our current Legislature appears unwilling to consider proposals that insure the
health of everyone in Wisconsin. If Provide or Pay is passed locally and then
adopted regionally across the state, it will have the same effect as passing
statewide legislation.

For more information about our organization and Provide or Pay, go to our Web
site, wisconsinhealthcareforall.org, or call us at 608-274-0611. This summer
we'll be at the Farmers' Market at the corner of Mifflin and Pinckney streets.
If we initiate a ballot process, we'll have just 60 days from the time we start
circulating petitions so we'll need many volunteers to help us.

* Good health care coverage must be available to everyone. Provide or Pay is the
most logical way to make it happen for all the people of Wisconsin -- city by
city, region by region. Too many people and too many businesses have had to wait
too long for affordable, comprehensive coverage. Now is the time for all of us
to join together to make health care for all a reality.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Judy Reed is communications director for Wisconsin Health Care for All
Inc.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Madison Newspapers, Inc.


                              380 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                     Marin Independent Journal (Marin, CA)

                           December 13, 2003 Saturday

Flu outbreak hitting kids hard

SECTION: NATION/WORLD

LENGTH: 1240 words


http://media.mnginteractive.com

Nikki Anderson of Westfield, Ind., turns away yesterday as her 4-year old
daughter, Tayler, receives a flu shot from nurse Terry Harlan at a clinic in
Noblesville, Ind. The flu has killed more than two dozen children this season.
AP photo Children's death toll higher than normal, especially in Colorado

Denver Post

The mother of one toddler said later she thought her son had gotten better. His
fever was gone when she put him to bed.

When she went to wake him up the next morning, the 14-month-old boy was dead.

The parents of an 8-year-old said they had no inkling their little boy was
seriously ill.

He went to school on a Friday; by Monday he was dead.

Dead from the flu.

There are, at last count, at least 11 dead children, maybe 13, just in Colorado.
There are more, maybe 20, in California, Utah, Texas, Wyoming, New Mexico,
Nevada and Colorado - children who have died from the flu, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Final, specific causes of the deaths of the flu victims haven't been determined.
Most of those who died in Colorado were sick before the flu struck, with
compromised immune systems, or, in at least one case, heart problems. But some
were healthy, exuberant children whose deaths no doubt send shivers down the
spine of every parent. And the deaths leave parents asking how such a thing can
happen.

In a typical flu season, about 36,000 people die of the virus and its
complications, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The
vast majority of those, conventional wisdom says, are elderly or people who had
health problems before the flu struck.

The number is not supposed to include children.

But the reality is that every year, children die of flu. Like adults, the vast
majority of kids who get the flu recover completely. Nevertheless, some doctors
say children die more often than anyone realizes.

Richard Webby, a virologist with the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
department of infectious diseases in Memphis, Tenn., said the number of flu
deaths among every age group "almost certainly" is underreported.

One reason is that so many respiratory illnesses mimic the flu. And often when
flu kills, it is because the victim developed pneumonia, the most common
complication, doctors say.

The connection is so close that in Colorado, the state health department lumps
pneumonia/influenza deaths into one category.

Every year, 115,000 to 120,000 people are hospitalized because of the flu, said
Dr. Paul Offit, chief of infectious diseases at Children's Hospital
Philadelphia.

"And the bulk of those are older than 65 and younger than 4," he said.

To the surprise of many experts, recent research shows "that children in this
age group are at a comparable risk of complications [from flu] as folks 65 and
over," said Dr. William Schaffner, chairman of the department of preventive
medicine at Vanderbilt University Medical School and a liaison member of the CDC
advisory committee on vaccines.

"The information indicates that this applies to healthy children who can
sometimes become so sick that they have to be admitted to the hospital and put
on a ventilator," Schaffner said.

As a result, the nation's top health officials, including the CDC and the
American Academy of Pediatrics, this year for the first time "encouraged" flu
shots for children as young as 6 months.

Most health officials expect the academy and CDC to strengthen that to an
official recommendation in time for the 2004-05 flu season.

"For the last three years, these recommending bodies have tried to move people
toward that notion," Offit said.

Many felt the stronger recommendation should have come sooner.

"The academy's position has been that it would be very confusing to have the
academy recommend something that the [CDC] advisory committee on infectious
disease does not," said Dr. Steven Berman, a Denver pediatrician and academy
member.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

One practical reason for that, he said, is that without the CDC's green light,
programs such as Medicaid, the government's health insurance program for the
very poor, likely would not cover the vaccination's cost.

Copyright and permissions

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

    Copyright 2003 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication


                              381 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                    November 15, 2005 Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Health care could go up;
 Nonunioncity workers

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos; TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


City Manager Michael V. O'Brien is recommending a wage and benefits package for
non-represented municipal employees that would increase the cost of their health
insurance benefits and provide them with pay raises totaling more than 9
percent, retroactive to July 1, 2003, and going forward through June 30, 2007.

The package, which covers 241 municipal workers who do not belong to an employee
union or association, mirrors deals the city has negotiated with some of its
unionized employees.

In a related matter, Mr. O'Brien said the 75 members of his executive management
team, which includes department heads and other administrators, will also be
paying more for their health insurance benefits, beginning Jan. 1, with another
increase slated for July 1.

With the changes, the city's contribution rate for health insurance would be
lowered to 80 percent for all non-represented employees, while the employees
would pay 20 percent. Any new hires in the non-represented and executive
management group after Jan. 1 would pay 25 percent of the premium costs for
their health insurance, while the city pays 75 percent.

Currently, the city picks up the tab for 87 percent of the premium costs for the
Blue Cross plan it offers and 90 percent of HMO premiums. City employees who
work more than 20 hours per week are eligible for health insurance benefits.

"I am honored and pleased that my executive management team embraced the
important and necessary health insurance reforms for the city of Worcester," Mr.
O'Brien said. "The recognition and cooperation from this highly dedicated and
extremely talented leadership team demonstrates their commitment to this city
and their recognition that the continuous decline in city services due to rising
health insurance costs is not sustainable for Worcester taxpayers and this
government in the long term."

With the non-represented and executive management employees added to the ranks
of those who will be part of the city manager's health reform, it brings the
total number of municipal employees paying more for their health insurance
benefits to 1,022.

Mr. O'Brien also praised the non-represented employees for recognizing that the
pay raises included in his package provide them with a fair and equitable
package that is financially affordable. The manager said he received unanimous
support from the non-represented employees to recommend his wage and benefit
package.

"On behalf of Worcester taxpayers and my executive management team who oversee
these truly dedicated and essential city personnel, I am truly indebted and
extremely grateful for the leadership demonstrated by this group," Mr. O'Brien
said.

In exchange for paying more for their health insurances, non-represented
employees would receive pay raises as follows: 0.25 percent retroactive to July
1, 2003; 2 percent retroactive to July 1, 2004; 2 percent effective this past
July 1; 1 percent effective Jan. 1, 2006; 2 percent effective July 1, 2006, and
another 1 percent on that date when the share of all health insurance premiums
for non-represented employees goes to 20 percent; and 1 percent effective June
30, 2007.

Mr. O'Brien said he made several presentations to explain his wage and benefit
package to the non-represented employees, and to discuss Worcester's health
insurance cost structure. He said the increase in health care costs over the
past several years constituted a "silent pay raise and pension increase" for all
city employees and retirees.

As for his executive management team, Mr. O'Brien has recommended amending the
city's salary ordinance, to increase by 1 percent the minimum and maximum salary
ranges for the job classifications in that group. Those increases are to take
place Jan. 1, July 1, 2006, and June 30, 2007. Employees holding those positions
would also receive 1 percent raises on those dates.

Since 2001, Worcester's overall employee health insurances costs have gone from
$33.4 million to nearly $65.9 million. That 35 percent increase is more than the
statewide average.

"I remain steadfast in my conviction to institute meaningful and necessary
health insurance changes and reforms," Mr. O'Brien said. "These health insurance
reforms must reverberate and resonate throughout this municipal organization,
and other employee groups, for the benefit of Worcester's taxpayers and the
long-term stability of this city."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              382 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

Collective Health introduces a new model for employer health insurance

SECTION: ACCIDENT & HEALTHCARE; Strategy And Business Planning

LENGTH: 701 words



HIGHLIGHT: Collective Health will introduce a new solution for
employer-sponsored health insurance.


Collective Health provides companies with a simple solution to sponsor health
care on their terms by extending the benefits of self-insurance to companies of
all sizes, without the complexity or expense that is traditionally associated
with the self-insurance process.

The company has raised a series A venture investment led by Founders Fund with
participation from Formation 8, the Social+Capital Partnership, and prominent
angel investors including Scott Banister, Max Levchin, Jeremy Stoppelman and Amr
Awadallah.

Health care spending, and health insurance premiums in particular, are
increasing at an unsustainable rate, with spending on health care growing twice
as fast as overall GDP1. With over ninety percent of private health insurance
paid for by employers, companies have borne the brunt of these increasing costs
and have until now been held hostage to rapid and unpredictable increases in
traditional health insurance premiums.

Collective Health was created to offer companies a better way to control and
manage health care costs, while offering superior health coverage uniquely
tailored to the needs of American workers.

"While insurance is supposed to be a risk-sharing business, health insurance has
increasingly become a middleman business ­ devised to generate profit for the
health insurers above all else. As a result, there is a fundamental disconnect
between the incentives of traditional health insurance companies and people's
and organizations' health insurance needs," said Ali Diab, co­founder and CEO of
Collective Health. "At Collective Health we have created a complete replacement
for employer-sponsored health insurance: a replacement that is focused on
people's and organizations' health and happiness, not on health insurer
profits."

Collective Health's cloud-based self-insurance platform extends the benefits of
self-insurance to businesses of all sizes, bringing technological innovation and
efficiency to an industry infamous for its opaque business practices, antiquated
technology and processes, and unpredictable price increases.

Additionally, Collective Health's solution is underscored by a user experience
that is built from the ground up for the people it was designed to serve -
employees and their dependents.

Delivered as a software-as-a-service (SaaS) solution with a flat-fee pricing
structure, Collective Health provides employers of all sizes with a fully
integrated health self-insurance platform - including actuarial analysis,
customized health plan design, legal and regulatory compliance, plan funding,
claims administration, health provider network access and real­time data
analytics - all in one seamless package.

Self-insurance provides true transparency into the real costs of health care and
substantial financial savings and cost control compared to traditional health
insurance, as evidence by the ninety-four percent of large US employers that
self-insure their employee health plans today.

Yet, until today, self-insurance has not been a viable option for most
businesses due to the complexity and high fixed costs associated with
establishing a self-insured employer-sponsored health plan. Collective Health
makes self-insurance easier than buying a fully-insured health plan, giving
employers a clear path toward health insurance independence.

Through Collective Health, employers and employees have access to a single,
unified platform to view and manage their health care activities and costs,
direct access to real-time customer service, and health plan features and
descriptions that are presented in clear, unambiguous language.

Collective Health self-insured plans are optimized by employers to meet the
unique needs of their employees and can be integrated with popular perks such as
telemedicine, nutrition programs, gym memberships, free rides to doctors'
appointments and more.

"Fundamental reform is long overdue in the health insurance industry," said
Scott Nolan, Partner at Founders Fund. "Collective Health is challenging the
status quo of the entire private health insurance industry, using technology to
dramatically bring down costs for employers of all sizes while providing higher
quality care to employees and their dependents."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        SUNDAY TELEGRAM (Massachusetts)

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

Budget buster;
CBO estimate on Obamacare at $1.76 trillion

SECTION: EDITORIAL; IN OUR OPINION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 545 words


Two years ago, just before Congress narrowly approved the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, colloquially known as Obamacare, we pointed out that the
legislation relied upon some duplicitous math to tamp down the cost.
Specifically, President Barack Obama and Democrats crafted legislation that
financed six years' worth of reforms with 10 years of taxes, a maneuver that
enabled them to claim the new law would cost $940 billion over the coming
decade.

On Tuesday, the Congressional Budget Office released a revised cost estimate,
using its 10-year outlook time frame to factor in more of the law's provisions
and their associated costs. The result is startling. The gross cost of Obamacare
from fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2022 is estimated to be a cumulative $1.76
trillion.

To be sure, the CBO report also gives a net cost, which it lists at a mere $1.25
trillion. But half of the "savings" consists of penalty payments by individuals
and businesses who fail to obtain insurance, as well as excise taxes on
high-premium insurance plans. Those billions of dollars ultimately come out of
the pockets of American workers and taxpayers.

As to Obamacare's primary and long-advertised purpose - extending health
insurance coverage to all Americans without it - the CBO report concludes that
the percentage of non-elderly Americans with coverage will go from 82 to percent
this year to 93 percent a decade from now. That means that by 2022, between 20
million and 23 million more Americans will be covered through newly created
insurance exchanges, but roughly the same number will continue to lack any
health insurance coverage.

The CBO report also estimates that between 3 million and 5 million Americans
will have shifted from an employer-provided health insurance plan into some form
of government plan.

These financial and demographic estimates matter because health insurance is not
exempt from economic laws and human nature. Competition and choice tend to
improve quality and drive down cost. But Obamacare, when fully implemented, will
have the opposite effect - exacerbating the nation's slide toward government-run
health insurance.

Later this month, the U.S. Supreme Court will hear an unprecedented
five-and-a-half hours of testimony for and against Mr. Obama's signature
legislation. Defenders of the law will argue, eloquently and with some justice,
that the insurance coverage of millions is at stake. Well, health insurance is
an important and useful thing to have, and extending its benefits to more
Americans is a social and economic good.

But how and why we expand health insurance coverage matters greatly. A principle
more important than copayments and prescription drug coverage is at stake: Does
Congress have the power to arrogate to itself the power to regulate one-sixth of
the nation's economy under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution?

We believe they do not, and expect the Court will strike down key provisions of
Obamacare, in effect telling the legislative and executive branches that they
must find a better way to achieve their policy goals.

If not, prepare for a less-free future, one in which Washington bureaucrats will
tell Americans what coverage they must carry, how much health care they may
consume, and what they must pay for it.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday

Time to move on with Obamacare

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 579 words


Time to move on with Obamacare

The biggest single driver of health care costs in America is uninsured
Americans. None of us actually pay for our health care. We couldn't afford it.
We pay for health insurance.

Hospitals pass on the cost of caring for the uninsured to the health insurance
companies, which raise the price of premiums to cover these increased costs. As
the number of insured people increases under Obamacare, hospitals will be able
to lower their prices due to fewer uninsured patients, the pool of money to pay
for the cost of health care will increase, and the cost of the premiums will
decrease.

This is especially true because health insurance companies, under Obamacare,
must use 80 percent of the premium dollars for actual health care. New York,
California and Maryland have already reported a drop in premium costs. We will
probably never have socialized medicine, which means all the health care
personnel work for the government, as in VA hospitals, but we may someday have
universal health insurance coverage, like Medicare is for seniors. Obamacare is
the first attempt at reforming our health care system since Medicare in 1967,
and it was long overdue.

If you do not believe what I've written, research the Massachusetts Health Plan
which insures 97 percent of the state's residents. Governor Romney signed it
into law, and President Obama used it as the model for Obamacare, including the
individual mandates. After you've done your due diligence, let your Republican
representative in Washington know that it is time to move on.

Diane Niesman

Wheaton

Political hand-waving on junk car lot?

I am a retired ComEd lineman with 37 years of experience. I am writing in
response to the article that appeared in the July 23 paper regarding East
Dundee's mayor, Lael Miller, and IAA, a junk yard dealer who wants to auction
junk cars. IAA wants access across ComEd's easement to move their junk cars.
This would not be one or two cars, but possibly hundreds.

This could potentially block any repair trucks needed by Edison, which they
would require any equipment needed during power outages to be hand carried to
the trucks.

Depending on the type of storm and weather conditions, hand-carrying equipment
to the truck increases the likelihood of delayed time in restoring power. During
a power outage, time is critical in restoring power to the customers of the
business district and residential areas of East Dundee. Also, from an
environmental perspective, ComEd is being a responsible steward of the
environment by not allowing the fluids from these old cars to leak into the
ground.

I am wondering if this might be political hand waving on the part of the mayor.
There are plenty of old gravel pits that IAA could use for its junk cars.

Wallace Bud Bohlin

Elgin

Industry hides facts about flesh foods

A July 29 article regarding pigs being intelligent and cows and chickens being
sensitive and endearing creatures was indisputable. Lamentably, the world's meat
moguls, sausage czars and poultry profiteers do not want the populace to know
that kind animals are cruelly raised and slaughtered for their meat. They also
don't want people to realize that raising and killing these helpless animals for
food causes massive global warming, deforestation. water shortages,
environmental toxicity and air, water and land pollution.

We must eschew these flesh-foods and embrace vegetarianism as a moral,
spiritual, ecological and planetary imperative.

Brien Comerford

Glenview

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              385 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday

Small business takes stage // Health care, taxes candidates' focus

BYLINE: John J. Monahan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


BOSTON - Republican Charles D. Baker Jr. pledged yesterday to try to reduce
health care costs and taxes for small business, while Gov. Deval L. Patrick
contended he has already lowered small business taxes and acted to limit health
insurance increases.

The two leading candidates for governor both said that they see small businesses
as the key to creating jobs, but offered different views on how the state can
help them. At a press conference at a Needham company that provides services to
startup companies, Mr. Baker said he wants to simplify state taxes on small
businesses over the next four years. Eventually, he said he wants to see the
rate come down to 5 percent from the current 8.75 percent.

He said that would send a strong message to businesses that they can expand and
anticipate future tax costs. "One message, one rate, over time," he said of his
plan to cut business taxes.

His approach to controlling health care costs, he said, relies on public
reporting on the costs and outcomes of medical services provided by different
providers so that consumers can evaluate and pursue lower cost medical care.

Transparency about the costs and effectiveness of generic drugs resulted in
people accepting lower costs drug coverage and reduced increases in drug costs
to 5 percent annually, he said, as the use of generic drugs became more widely
accepted.

Mr. Baker said because prices for some medical services vary up to 500 percent
depending on the providers, public disclosure of costs and outcomes will allow
people to shop for more cost-effective medical care.

"I believe many people would purchase health insurance plans that gave them
incentives to choose lower cost options that are more affordable that perform at
the same level," Mr. Baker said. "The way it works now, you really cannot tell
who is driving down the cost of health care and who is driving it up."

Mr. Patrick said the two issues he hears about most from the owners of small
businesses are health care and problems accessing capital.

He maintained that the state has already lowered taxes on small businesses, with
legislation he signed that took effect Jan. 1 lowering the corporate tax rate
from 9.5 percent to 8.75 percent. The rate is set to continue dropping to 8.25
percent in 2011, and to 8 percent in 2012 and state revenue officials said the
tax cuts for businesses this year totaled about $56 million.

Mr. Patrick meanwhile criticized Mr. Baker for not acting to reduce health
insurance costs while he ran Harvard Pilgrim Health Care.

The governor said his administration has already taken direct action to lower
health insurance cost by arranging for small businesses to purchase insurance at
less costly group rates. The governor said the cap he imposed on premium
increases statewide earlier this year has also reduced premium increases.

"We have already cut the business tax. It started down this year and it goes
down each of the next two years. We have also taken on the cost of health care
for small businesses, while Charlie Baker has stood on the sidelines and did
nothing other than raise premiums on those small businesses by 150 percent," Mr.
Patrick said.

The governor said the state has also established a new $30 million growth
capital fund to guarantee small business loans. "That is a real and tangible
advantage to small businesses and we are looking forward to making that help
available," the governor said.

.Mr. Baker laid out his small business views at Grasshopper Telecommunications
in Needham where representatives of the Massachusetts Chapter of the National
Federation of Independent Businesses announced they were endorsing him for
governor.

William B. Vernon, state director of the group, said the organization's advisory
committee chose to endorse Mr. Baker.

Mr. Vernon said payroll taxes and regulations make it "too hard and too
expensive for businesses here to grow and prosper" while health insurance costs
keep going up.

"We certainly appreciate the governor's recent attention to the issue and the
announcement of a freeze on health insurance premiums in January," Mr. Vernon
said.

But he said the group sees that as "too little" in that the freeze will only be
temporary and he complained more should have been done sooner to curb health
insurance increases.

Mr. Patrick meanwhile talked about his small business plans after participating
in a groundbreaking in Boston for the new 22 story Liberty Mutual headquarters
that is expected to bring 600 new full-time jobs.

ART: PHOTOS

CUTLINE: Candidate Charles D. Baker Jr. and Gov. Deval L. Patrick say they see
small business as the key to creating jobs.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOSTON - Republican Charles D. Baker Jr. pledged yesterday to try to
reduce health care costs and taxes for small business, while Gov. Deval L.
Patrick contended he has already lowered small business taxes and acted to limit
health insurance increases.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                      May 26, 2005 Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Police contract OK reported;
 City to pay less on health costs

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos; TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


City police officers, who have been working under the terms of an old contract
that expired nearly two years ago, have reportedly ratified a new deal with the
city, according to sources close to the situation.

The deal, said to be a three- or four-year contract, reportedly includes
groundbreaking language on health insurance for union members.

Currently, the city picks up the tab for 87 percent of the premium costs for the
point-of-service plan it offers, while employees pay the remaining 13 percent.
But under the new contract, the city would pay 80 percent of the health
insurance premiums for existing employees, and 75 percent of the premium costs
for any new hires, according to sources.

City Manager Michael V. O'Brien has made employee health insurance changes a
cornerstone of his $497 million fiscal 2006 budget proposal. He has set aside
$5.2 million to fund collective bargaining agreements with municipal employee
unions, but has made that contingent on employee health insurance changes that
would save the city $3.15 million annually.

The manager has been persistent in his efforts to have employees pay a greater
percentage of the health insurance premium costs and absorb additional costs
through a redesign of the health insurance plans. While employee unions have
said they were willing to discuss the manager's health insurance proposals, many
were very cool to the idea.

"To maintain structural balance in the form of wages and benefits for the
long-term future for the city, wage increases must be conditional upon changes
in health insurance reforms," Mr. O'Brien wrote in his budget message.
"Worcester's taxpayers can no longer afford paying both."

Mr. O'Brien could not be reached for comment last night. He did not attend
Tuesday night's City Council meeting because his father, who lives outside the
area, is ill.

Officer Richard P. Cipro Jr., president of Local 378, International Brotherhood
of Police Officers, said he had no comment when asked whether his union had
ratified a new contract.

The new contract was ratified by union members last night by a wide margin,
sources said. One source said the vote, unofficially, was 250-47 in favor of the
pact.

Negotiations between the city and Local 378 had been one of the best-kept
secrets in City Hall, compared to the high-profile contract dispute the city has
had with the local firefighters' union.

The police union and the city had reached a tentative agreement last week, and
union leaders spent Monday and Tuesday of this week briefing their membership on
the details of the contract, according to sources.

While details about pay raises under the deal are somewhat sketchy, it is said
union members will receive a 1 percent raise retroactive to July 1, 2003, and a
2 percent raise for the fiscal year beginning July 1.

That agrees with what Mr. O'Brien had included in his fiscal 2006 budget
message. As part of his spending plan, he outlined how he intended to use
so-called free cash - surplus budget funds generated in previous fiscal years -
"to finance half of the 2 percent retroactive contract settlement I have offered
collective bargaining units."

City Hall sources said the budget also includes money to fund 2 percent raises
for fiscal 2006.

In addition to salary increases, the new contract is said to also include a
signing bonus for all union members, as well as a commitment by the city
administration to provide additional budget money for police overtime.

In his fiscal 2006 budget proposal, Mr. O'Brien has recommended increasing
police overtime by about $360,000, from $1.2 million to $1.57 million. He has
recommended a $100,000 increase in regular police overtime, and he has set aside
additional funding in two new overtime categories: SWAT training, $100,000, and
summer patrols, $160,000.

In his budget message, Mr. O'Brien said he was increasing the Police
Department's overtime budget to further enhance police presence and visibility.
He has also included funding in his budget for a new police recruit class of at
least 17 members that would begin training in November and graduate in the
spring of 2006.

For many years, relations between the city and Local 378 have been contemptuous
at best. But there has been a noticeable thawing in that relationship since Mr.
O'Brien appointed Gary J. Gemme police chief in October.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              387 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                             August 21, 2005 Sunday

HEALTH;
Options reduce cost

SECTION: Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 304 words


Health insurance varies widely in most states, sometimes due to the cost of
living, sometimes due to regulations of individual states. New Jersey residents
pay about $4,000 annually for health insurance, while neighboring Pennsylvania
residents pay about $1,400.

The national average is $1,800.

A new federal law being proposed would give individuals the option of purchasing
health insurance from any state, so long as the insurance is state-regulated and
approved.

The law, proposed by U.S. Rep. John Shadegg, R-Ariz., may not affect many
Florida consumers, since health insurance costs here are close to the national
average. But in high-cost states like New York and New Jersey, they would
greatly benefit individuals who are uninsured.

A new scientific poll by Zogby International found that 72 percent of the
respondents supported the idea, with more support among Hispanics and
African-Americans. "This poll proves that when people understand they have
choices, the market works and consumers win," Shadegg said in a press release.

The concept also was supported by 80 percent of the National Federation of
Independent Business members, many of whom have difficulties providing health
insurance for their employees. "These small-business owners are the real
experts, and they are all too familiar with this problem. After all, it is the
small-business community that represents the largest portion of the uninsured
population," the federation reported.

Merrill Matthews, director of the Council for Affordable Health Insurance, said
in testimony before a U.S. House subcommittee that consumer-driven health
insurance plans result in lower premiums. When states micromanage the industry,
costs escalate.

With 50 states being used as laboratories for government, it makes sense to
allow competition and choice across state lines.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 The Florida Times-Union


                              388 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday

What Utah districts pay out when superintendents leave

BYLINE: The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 804 words


Jordan School District:

Students in 2009: 48,411

Barry Newbold, retiring Dec. 30, 2010

-- TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO THE DISTRICT: $459,500

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $105,000 paid over four years

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $136,000

-- Other: Purchased years of retirement service $132,000; years of service
credit $2,500; and unused sick leave $84,000



Granite School District

Students in 2009: 68,131

Stephen Ronnenkamp, retired Aug. 1, 2010

-- TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO DISTRICT: $51,981 plus $11,037 a year for life

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $25,981 for about one year (12
percent of his final base salary)

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $11,037 annually for life.

-- Other: 30-day payout of vacation time valued at around $26,000



Nebo School District

Students in 2009: 28,282 students

Chris Sorensen, retired Oct. 5, 2010

-- TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO DISTRICT: $195,566

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $28,768 over five years plus
$109,995 used to purchase additional years of service

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $46,005 over five years

-- Other: payment for 20 unused vacation days $10,798



Garfield School District

Students in 2009: 931 students

Janice Hatch, retiring Dec. 31, 2010

-- TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO THE DISTRICT: $147,640

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $85,619 over five years

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: up to $45,180 over five years

-- Other: payout of at least 52 sick days for $3,380 and payout of at least 35
vacation days for $13,461



Carbon School District

Students in 2009: 3,462 students

Patsy Bueno, retired May 30, 2010 (now working as acting superintendent,
part-time)

-- TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO THE DISTRICT: $179,733

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $105,909 into retirement account
over five years

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $55,424 for insurance until
Sept. 2015

-- Other: payout for 142.3 sick days of $9,499 and payout for 20 vacation days
of $8,901



Millard School District

Students in 2009: 2,820 students

David Taylor, retired July 1, 2010

-- TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO THE DISTRICT: $69,204

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $48,384 over four years

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $20,820 over five years

-- Other: sick leave gone upon retirement; vacation used up upon retirement



Morgan School District

Students in 2009: 2,338 students

Ronald Wolff, resigned June 30, 2010

TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO DISTRICT: $4,185

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $0 resigned did not retire

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $0 no continuing health
insurance

-- Other: vacation paid out for 11 days: $4,185



Juab School District

Students in 2009: 2,244 students

Kirk Wright, retired June 30, 2010

TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO DISTRICT: $0

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $0

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $0

-- Other: $0



Duchesne School District

Students in 2009: 4,436 students

John Aland, retired August 2010

TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO DISTRICT: $89,038

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $69,500 over four years

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $0

-- Other: sick leave payout of 95 days, $5,426 and vacation day payout for 36
days of $14,112



North Sanpete School District

Students in 2009: 2,319 students

Courtney Syme, retired June 30, 2010

TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO DISTRICT: $70,581

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $16,111 over three years

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $35,424 over three years

-- Other: sick leave payout for 24 days of $8,111; vacation payout for 30 days
of $10,935



Sevier School District

Students in 2009: 4,528 students

Brent Thorne, retired from district June 30, 2010 (retired within Utah
Retirement System several years ago)

-- TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO DISTRICT: $31,852

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $0

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $0

-- Other: money paid to defined medical benefit for 201.57 unused days leave of
$25,248; money paid to defined medical benefit for 14.5 unused vacation days of
$6,604



Box Elder School District

Students in 2009: 11,052 students

Steven Laing, left June 30, 2010 (was interim superintendent who was already
officially retired when he took the position)

-- TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO DISTRICT: $0

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $0

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $0

-- Other: $0



Tintic School District

Students in 2009: 233 students

Ron Barlow, left June 30, 2010 (was already officially retired when he worked as
superintendent)

-- TOTAL ESTIMATED COST TO DISTRICT: $0

-- Estimated value of retirement incentive: $0

-- Estimated value of continuing health insurance: $0

-- Other: $0 Alt Heads:

What Utah districts pay out when superintendents leave

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 24, 2009 Sunday

City of Eau Claire offered deal on health care

BYLINE: Julian Emerson, The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 417 words


May 24--The city of Eau Claire would get a break on the price it pays to provide
employee health insurance if the City Council agrees to continue with Eau
Claire-based provider Group Health for an additional year.

City health insurance costs are set to increase 7.5 percent for the year
starting July 1 and ending June 30, 2010. But that figure would drop to 6.5
percent if the council decides to retain Group Health as the city's insurance
provider for the next year, which would end June 30, 2011.

As part of the deal, Group Health has proposed that the cost increase for the
2010-11 year be capped at 12 percent. That figure could be lower, depending on
employee use and rates charged by health care providers.

The deal may appeal to council members, who have mentioned containing health
insurance costs as a main budget goal.

The city budgeted $7.7 million this year to provide health care to its
employees, an increase of 8 percent compared with last year. The 6.5 percent
increase would boost the city's health insurance bill by $500,000.

Although the proposal represents an added cost, that figure is lower than
increases facing many local governments. For instance, on Monday the Eau Claire
school board approved a 28 percent increase for health insurance for the year
beginning July 1.

The relatively lower figure for the city marks a stark contrast to the situation
two years ago, when city officials faced a 57 percent health insurance cost
hike. The city subsequently negotiated changes to its plan that included higher
co-pays for some procedures and prescriptions and an employee wellness plan. The
city also changed its provider to Group Health.

Today, cost increases have been reduced significantly, enabling the city to
avoid more than $2 million in personnel and program cutbacks during the past two
years.

"This partnership between Group Health, the city and our employees has resulted
in stabilizing the city's health insurance costs," said Dale Peters, city human
resources director.

Emerson can be reached at 830-5911, 800-236-7077 or julian. emerson@ecpc.com

To see more of The Leader-Telegram or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.leadertelegram.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Leader-Telegram, Eau
Claire, Wis. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090524-EW-City-of-Eau-Claire-offered-deal-on-health-care-0524

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                                 Copyright 2009


                              390 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            April 28, 1992, Tuesday

'Easy' answer is the wrong one

BYLINE: JACK D. DAVIS - Newnan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 13

LENGTH: 265 words


The Editors: Health-care reform is one of the most important issues facing the
nation. There is an easy-sounding solution currently being proposed, however,
that I believe would not be the best option for our country, for business
owners, for this community, or for patients. That proposed system is national
health insurance.

The truth about national health insurance - or socialized medicine, as some call
it - is that under such a program, health-care services would have to be
rationed in accordance with the government's budget limit. If the experience of
other countries is any indication of the impact of nationalized health care,
then elderly and low-income people would be hurt the most. Rationing programs
tend to favor the young and well-off.

We must control health-care costs. Hospitals, too, are hit hard financially by
the rising cost of professional salaries and life-saving equipment - not to
mention the rising cost of providing "free" (uncompensated) care to those
patients who cannot afford to pay.

There is a way to control costs that will work: Hospitals and physicians must
work together with those in our community who pay for health insurance to
examine ways to eliminate unnecessary care; encourage the use of managed care
(HMOs, PPOs); urge our legislators to enact sane malpractice laws; and create
incentives to help smaller employers afford health insurance for their workers.

Our problems are not so overwhelming that we should destroy a health- care
system considered the best in the world in favor of something that we already
know doesn't work.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                              391 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                          February 5, 1992, Wednesday

Mr. Bush's health-care prescription

BYLINE: By Shelia M. Poolegeorge/bush; congress; politics; health; care;
benefits; costs; insurance; opinion

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 8

LENGTH: 380 words


For a brief moment during the State of the Union address, President Bush and
congressional Democrats almost jeered at each other across the gulf that
separates their stands on the nation's health-care crisis. Meanwhile, millions
of Americans peer into that abyss and wonder if either side has the answers to
keep them from falling in.

Mr. Bush is scheduled to lay out his plan this week. Leaks from administration
officials indicate no change of heart from the president's speech, which
ridiculed Democrats' planned government-mandated national health insurance. (It
was at that point in the speech that Democrats gave the president a derisive
cheer for mentioning their position.)

There are attractive elements in the Bush proposals, especially in an election
year. It claims to ensure health insurance coverage for more than 90 million
Americans, including the more than 34 million who now have no insurance. It's
supposed to require no new taxes. Indeed, it is based on tax breaks that would
help pay for private health insurance.

The attractive surface of the president's plan is shallow, however. The troubles
with it run deep. For starters, the costs - up to $ 100 billion - would be paid
by slowing the growth of Medicaid and Medicare costs. Among the ways this would
be done is a reduction in special payments to teaching hospitals and hospitals
that primarily serve low- income patients. Atlanta's Grady Memorial is an
example of such a facility.

The president would pay for health insurance for the poor by denying dollars to
programs that ensure that poor and elderly people have access to health care.
And in doing so he would jeopardize hospitals whose burden of caring for the
poor is increasing.

Beyond objections to how this program would be financed lies the question of
whether it will help solve the problems of the American health-care system.
Those problems go beyond the lack of health insurance. The cost of health
insurance to individuals and companies paying for it is an issue. The cost of
treatment not covered by insurance is another.

After all the talk about what ails health care in America, Mr. Bush has come
forward offering political salve. The debate on this vital issue has been
joined. It's time for strong medicine and a cure.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                              392 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            September 9, 2016 Friday

A demographic challenge;
Ageing

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 348 words


An ageing population means that as more people live longer, their greater
medical needs place increasing pressure on the health service. For an increasing
number, however, private health insurance has become less affordable as health
premiums have risen rapidly to meet the higher cost of healthcare and the
increased volume of insurance claims. VHI, the largest health insurer, has
warned that within a decade the current private health insurance model may be
unsustainable. It estimates that by 2025, the cost of claims could rise by
four-fifths to EUR 3.4 billion, driven higher by this ageing demographic. And by
then it anticipates a 60 per cent rise in the number of people over the age of
65.

Higher health insurance costs and the impact of recession have prompted many
subscribers to reduce their cover since 2008 while the number with private
health insurance has declined steadily, greatly adding to pressure on the public
health service. In its submission to an Oireachtas committee that is examining
the future of the health service, VHI has questioned whether the health
insurance market can withstand such additional costs.

Major reform of the health service is long overdue. The promise of universal
health insurance was never realised. Now the implementation of far-reaching
changes in the health services will require politicians to take a long-term view
and to resist the temptation to use the health issue for short-term party
advantage. Whether the committee can rise to that challenge, and establish a
broad political consensus on the necessary reforms will present them with a
major test.

VHI's view is that the public and private health systems need to change their
model of delivering healthcare. It suggests a switch of emphasis; away from the
current "hospital centric" model that is overreliant on acute hospitals for
medical treatments, and towards an approach that cares for patients in a
"primary/community care setting". The State needs a health service that is fit
for the ageing and the aged, and one also that it can afford. The demographic
clock is ticking.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Pack travel insurance along with that bikini

BYLINE: Lisa Monforton, Calgary Herald; Canwest News Service

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. J5

LENGTH: 509  words


Just about the time the second wave of the H1N1 virus hits, many of us will be
thinking about giving the north the cold shoulder and booking a holiday in a hot
place.

Escaping the frosty temperatures doesn't mean you can dodge the illness. You can
expect the virus to be lurking in crowded airports, on planes and in hotels.
Sure, you can take the usual precautions, sneezing and coughing into the crook
of your elbow, carefully washing hands and practising the knuckle bump instead
of a handshake or hug. And getting the vaccine when it becomes available.

But there's one thing many of us often overlook in our haste to beat it to
beaches and deserts: Travel health insurance. We might be vigilant about
arranging pet sitters and finding the most flattering bathing suit, but not so
much at protecting the hard-earned investment in a precious holiday.

A 2008 Ipsos Reid poll conducted for RBC Insurance suggests the topic is not
considered as sexy as the bikini you might buy for the trip. Here are a few
highlights:

-Nearly 40 per cent of Canadians never purchase health insurance when travelling
on holidays to the U.S., where medical costs are some of the highest in the
world.

-According to the study, a four-day stay in a U.S. hospital for an appendectomy
could cost $39,400 US, with $1only,600 Cdn covered by a government health
insurance plan (GHIP). Similarly, a one-day stay in a U.S. hospital for a broken
arm and wrist could cost $32,600, with only $400 covered by a GHIP.

-In a similar study done the year before, it was found that 64 per cent have
never purchased travel health insurance when travelling in Canada because a
majority-- around 75 per cent --believe their provincial health insurance plans
would cover everything. (Provincial plans often exclude X-rays, dental work,
ambulance transportation and prescription drugs.)One example cited the cost of
an air ambulance with a full medical team travelling from Calgary to Toronto;
$28the,000 cost would not be covered by a government health insurance plan.

-Nearly 30 per cent have never purchased travel insurance when travelling
outside of Canada or the U.S., with the number skewing heavily toward 18-to
34-year-olds. Another common misconception is that certain credit cards that
have travel health insurance cover all costs incurred for illness or injury
while travelling. It's wise to read the fine print because this is often not the
case.

---------

INSURANCE FAST FACTS

The cost of travel insurance is usually based on age, length of trip and having
no pre-existing health issues. Here are a couple of cost scenarios from RBC.

Note that a deluxe package includes cancellation and interruption coverage,
emergency medical, emergency medical transportation, baggage and personal
effects, flight accident and travel accident coverage. - Family of four, both
parents under 60, spending seven days in Hawaii:

Value of trip: $4,000

Policy premium for deluxe package: $380 - Snowbird couple, both aged 65,
spending 60 days in Jamaica:

Value of trip: $6,000

Policy premium for deluxe package: $1,442

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            August 14, 1994, Sunday

ATLANTA BUSINESS: GEORGIA OUTLOOK Price to be high if health care plan includes
mandates

BYLINE: DONALD RATAJCZAK

SECTION: BUSINESS; Section P; Page 5

LENGTH: 515 words


Mandates have become the new way to finance government initiatives.

If the government cannot raise taxes sufficiently to finance environmental
cleanup, then pass regulations to require that local governments and businesses
do the job. If disability costs cannot be shouldered by government, require they
be paid by the private sector.

The biggest mandate is now being debated before Congress. If the federal
government cannot afford to provide universal health coverage, then require that
business pay the bill. Many politicians probably believe health care costs would
be lower because fewer taxes would be needed to provide subsidies.

Mandates vs. subsidies

In truth, the costs of health care are not changed merely because the bill is
passed from the government to the private sector.

In fact, many economists believe the costs will be higher with mandates than
with direct subsidies. A mandate requires that all businesses abide by a
regulation, even when it is not in their or their employees' best interests.

Just think how much the cost of providing entertainment at Six Flags would go up
if employers were required to pay for health insurance. Yet the vast majority of
its employees, mostly young adults, probably need little more than a first-aid
kit.

However, because insurance would be available, those youths probably would
demand more health services. Multiply this throughout the economy and
considerably more health services would be sought than if the government
provided direct subsidies to those needing health coverage.

Tax issue a big deal

But providing subsidies would require more taxes. Why not require that employers
pay the taxes directly to health insurance providers, thus avoiding the
appearance of a growing government?

Furthermore, most people probably would support an employer mandate under the
assumption that the company is paying the bills. Readers should know by now that
those paying the bills are not normally those writing the checks.

If the higher labor costs associated with an employer mandate reduce the
competitiveness of American industry, companies will transfer operations abroad
or close them.

In an effort to keep their jobs, workers may accept lower wage increases or even
cuts. In this case, the worker pays for the health benefits with reduced wages.

If the employer has substantial market presence and can pass the costs along,
then inflation increases and customers pay for the health benefits.

Shareholders might pay if costs cannot be shifted to labor or consumers.
However, only the current shareholders will pay in the form of reduced value of
their shares as earnings are permanently trimmed. The stock will fall, but the
new owners will buy at a lower price.

If you still want mandates despite less efficiency in allocating health
services, reduced wages, higher unemployment, lower competitiveness in the
world, higher inflation and lower stock values, then the current trend in
government should be appealing.

Donald Ratajczak is director of the Economic Forecasting Center at Georgia State
University.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH942290458

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              395 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                             April 24, 2016 Sunday

Soaring cost of health insurance a threat to job creation in UAE

BYLINE: Anam Rizvi

LENGTH: 779  words


Anam Rizvi

ABU DHABI // The soaring cost of health insurance is crippling employers and
threatening job creation and salary levels, a new study suggests.

The overall cost of premiums rose from Dh9.9 billion in 2013 to Dh11.1bn in
2014, an increase of more than 12 per cent, according to the Insurance
Authority.

Pacific Prime, the health-insurance broker, says premiums increased by 9.5 per
cent last year and have risen by an average of 10 per cent a year for the past
five years. In contrast, annual inflation is about 2.5 per cent.

The cost of premiums is also outstripping the cost of healthcare itself, which
is estimated to have risen by about 9 per cent a year between 2008 and 2013.

"This is an increasingly serious concern to employers as a growing proportion of
the total cost of employment," says the study, carried out by the research
company YouGov for International SOS, a medical and travel security risk
services company.

The study also suggests that hardly any patients know how much their treatment
costs, which is indirectly increasing the cost of insurance.

"Rising healthcare costs concern everybody," said Des Donnelly, corporate
development director at International SOS. "Healthcare inflation threatens job
prospects, pay rises and bonuses.

"Unfortunately, few people seem aware of this, and those who are have little
information to manage their own impact on this issue.

"The lack of initial medical advice, and of referrals to an audited network of
clinics and hospitals, drives up the number and cost of medical-treatment claims
for insurance companies, and this inflates employers' premiums year after year."

Most people choose a healthcare provider based on word of mouth and previous
experience, but patients need more information to make an informed choice that
also takes cost into account, the study suggests.

"Just because a hospital looks fantastic and has shiny equipment does not mean
that health outcomes for patients will be the best," said Dr Fraser Lamond,
regional medical director at International SOS. "However, it does often mean
that treatment costs can be sky high."

"There is a real need to understand the quality and reliability of the health
care itself first when selecting healthcare providers," Dr Lamond said.

"That will lead to better outcomes for patients and lower costs for society."

Mr Donnelly said the overall cost of premiums would increase this year as Dubai
introduced compulsory insurance.

Dubai Health Authority also requires that existing medical conditions be covered
by insurance policies.

"The DHA mandate is good news for individuals, of course, but it does mean that
businesses will have to carefully consider the implications on costs, as they
will have limited flexibility to spend on other things such as hiring, bonuses
and salaries," Mr Donnelly said.

"The cost of health insurance is rising faster than salaries and rents."

The main solution to rising medical inflation, he said, was to "make sure
individuals get the best quality health care for the best cost".

"If we can get this cost under control, businesses would be able to expand
salaries, pay bonuses and employ more people," he said.

For the study, YouGov surveyed 700 expatriates and Emiratis.

_____________________________________________________

Health insurance needs to be affordable, says Indian expat

Umaima Tinwala, Indian expatriate living in Dubai, 38, media professional, was
diagnosed with stage one of breast cancer in 2014 and finished treatment in
2015.

Ms Tinwala had to get a lot of her treatment in India and had to carry her
medicine from India to Dubai.

"I never had health insurance from my company. My husband has his own
technological firm, and he bought the insurance for me and my daughter. When we
tried to renew it in 2014, we got a quotation for double the amount we had the
year before. We opted to not take the insurance as we realised that it was not
covering eyes and dental and we were paying cash for this as our daughter needed
it."

"While one vial of medicine I needed cost equivalent to about Dh 3,000 in India,
it cost Dh 12,500 in UAE. The cost is staggering. It's completely unaffordable,"
she said.

"Health insurance is compulsory but it also needs to be a little more
affordable. If there is a government entity that provides insurance at a low
cost, it would help," she said.

"The smaller companies can't afford the health insurance and they pass on the
cost to the employees. The employees are afraid to bring this up as they think
they can lose their job," she said.

"We chose a company and mid-way through the policy they took out Zulekha
Hospital and this was the most convenient hospital for us.

arizvi2@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2016 Abu Dhabi Media Company
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Finance & Commerce (Minneapolis, MN)

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday

Minnesota pretty average on health insurance costs

BYLINE: Chris Newmarker

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 362  words


I still remember the almost constant refrain I heard when covering Minnesota
business owners' opinion of the health reform Congress passed in 2010 - that
employee health insurance is a huge cost that is constantly growing.

It seems that health insurance costs are growing even more now, with the Kaiser
Family Foundation reporting that the average cost of an employee-sponsored
family health plan increased to $15,073 this year, up 9 percent from 2010. The
average annual single premium was $5,429 in 2011, up 8 percent from last year.

Health insurance premium increases weren't as bad between 2009 and 2010. Some
health insurance industry critics complain the insurers held off on big rate
increases while Congress was debating health reform; now they're trying to make
up the difference before many of the reform's requirements kick in.

A full PDF of the Kaiser report is online.

The report didn't include a state-by-state breakdown of health premium costs.
But regionally, Kaiser found the health premiums in the Midwest and the West are
in the middle of the pack. The Northeast is more expensive, while the South is
cheaper.

The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation's State Health Access Data Assistance Center,
which is run out of the University of Minnesota, actually has state-by-state
comparisons of average premiums for firms with 50 to 99 employees apiece.

As of 2010, Minnesota was pretty much in the middle of the pack, 23rd for single
premiums and 19th for family plan premiums. Minnesota health insurance premiums
- at an average $4,964 a year for single plans and $13,903 for family plans --
are generally cheaper than what's offered in Wisconsin and Illinois, but more
expensive than what's available in Iowa and the Dakotas.

Minnesota doctors are more likely than their peers around the country to group
into large practices where there are efficiencies - a trend that drives down
health insurance costs. At the same time, Minnesota has a plethora of mandates
for fully insured plans, and those tend to drive up costs.

It may be small comfort. But Minnesota business owners can at least know that
they're getting a fairly average drubbing when it comes to health plan costs.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             August 9, 2005 Tuesday
                                  All Editions

Fixing health insurance

SECTION: Pg. A8

LENGTH: 216 words


Thank you, Daniel J. Bernier, for the excellent op-ed, "How to lower Maine's
high health insurance rates?" (BDN, Aug. 3).

We need free-market competition  in the offering of health insurance to Maine
people.

Our governor and Legislature need to remove the regulations that created the
mess we are in. We are currently trapped in a system that is spiraling down to
disaster. Think of the money that Maine taxpayers would save if health insurance
costs were lowered for all of towns, cities, schools, university system and all
state employees.

We also pay more for electricity and other utilities because of higher health
insurance costs for their employees. These are the employers who pass on to us
the majority of their employees' health insurance costs. (We not only have to
pay our own health insurance but theirs too.)

Health insurance companies should be allowed to price their products based on
the general health of the person being insured. If I exercise and eat right to
stay healthy, why should I pay as much for health insurance as the person who
doesn't take care of their health? Life insurance is priced according to health
factors, why not health insurance? Let the system that built this country,
free-market competition, be unleashed andfix the health insurance problem.

Phil Cyr

Caribou

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2005 Bangor Daily News


                              398 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             April 3, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Reilly says that universal cover won't cost you more - but can't give full
figures

BYLINE: Fionnan Sheahan; Eilish O'Regan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 578 words


health. Minister Dr James Reilly is promising his new health insurance for all
won''t cost more than premiums at the moment.

But the minister couldn''t give any detail on the cost to the consumer of the
reform of the health service through the introduction of Universal Health
Insurance.

Dr Reilly said the new health insurance will not be any more than the current
(EURO)920-a-year cost of the average health insurance package. The figure of
(EURO)920 is the average cost, after tax relief reduced the bill.

But the minister couldn''t say what would happen to the tax relief, from which
private health insurance customers currently benefit, when it is subsumed into
UHI.

Dr Reilly said if UHI were in place now, the average premium would be less than
this figure - and everyone would also have free GP care.

The Department of Public Expenditure and Reform has estimated in a letter to the
Department of Health that UHI could cost more than (EURO)1,600 per person.

The white paper does not detail the basket of services to which people will be
entitled for the premium, and this will only be decided after a process of
public consultation up to May 28, an examination by an expert commission and
debate at the health Oireachtas commitee. The Government will make the final
decision.

The inclusion of drugs - subject to co-payments - will be considered as part of
the basket, but those who currently have medical cards will get them free.

People who currently have health insurance should have a lower premium, with the
advantage of not having to pay their GP, added Dr Reilly.

If people want to buy additional insurance, it can only cover better
accommodation and "cordon bleu" cooking rather than fast access. These premiums
will be risk-rated, so the older and sicker will pay more.

Health insurance companies which will be paid premiums will compete with prices,
but may have their overheads and profit margins capped.

Dr Reilly said the changeover to UHI was a great opportunity.

"I know it sounds like hype - but I think it is the biggest reform in the
history of the State," he said. He said the system had to change and "the status
quo is not sustainable". Dr Reilly added that the dramatic increase in spending
from 1997 to 2007 did not sort out the problems in the health service.

"If money were the problem, we would have solved it a lot time ago," he said.

Meanwhile, Taoiseach Enda Kenny said the reform of the health service was a
"once in a generation opportunity" to build a health system that was fit for
purpose.

Mr Kenny said UHI was part of the Government''s mandate for change.

"Three years ago the Irish people voted for change. Change in the way we run our
economy. Change in the way we manage our finances.

Change in our health system.

"The publication today of a white paper on UHI sends a very clear message: We
intend to deliver on that promise of change.

"The Minister for Health''s reform plan represents a once in a generation
opportunity to help build a health system which is fit for purpose in a modern
republic. A health system which truly places the patient at the heart of all
that it does," he said.

Tanaiste Eamon Gilmore said the Labour Party was the first political party in
Ireland to propose UHI back in 2001.

"My party believes a person''s access to medical care should be determined by
medical needs, not the money in their pocket.

"The unfair two-tier system that has determined the course of our health service
over many decades, is not working."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday

Health insurance market must respect those in need;
We must retain the solidarity that exists between the young and healthy and the
elderly, who may require more care

BYLINE: James Reilly

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 956 words


At the heart of our strategy for private health insurance is keeping it as
affordable as possible for everyone. I recognise that the increased cost of
health insurance over the last few years at a time of financial crisis has made
it too big of a burden for many households to carry. I am determined that we can
have a competitive, well-regulated market and drive costs down to the benefits
of consumers. But we also have to continue to get the basics right.

Sense of fairnessIn Ireland, we have fundamentally observed the principle that
everyone pays the same for their particular plan regardless of age, health
status or gender. I believe that Irish people, who have a deep sense of fairness
and a high regard for the older generations who built this country, want this
approach continued. Most people are aware of health insurance markets in other
countries, notably in the US until recently, which evolved so that people who
couldn't afford insurance were simply blocked out of the healthcare system.
Often these were the most vulnerable people and most in need of care. Not only
do we not want to even contemplate such a situation in Ireland, we want to
evolve to an even fairer system of universal health insurance.

This will move us away from the unfair, two-tier system to a single-tier
healthcare service with the patient at the centre.

We have taken the first steps on the path to that goal, but there's a long way
to go. In the meantime, we have to preserve the principle that people pay the
same regardless of their particular circumstances.

And we must maintain the solidarity that younger people in the health insurance
market, who are generally well, show towards older people, who may be less well
and need more care. That's what community rating is all about.

Risk equalisationUnderpinning community rating is something called risk
equalisation. It is the system which balances how younger health insurance
holders subsidise older people on the understanding that these younger people
will themselves be subsidised by the generations that succeed them. The aim of
risk equalisation is to look at the market as a whole, and to distribute fairly
the differences that arise in insurers' costs due to the differing health status
of all of their customers. This way, older people pay less than they would in
what is known as a "risk-rated" system, which could see many older people find
health insurance totally unaffordable.

This is particularly relevant in the Irish market where competition arrived
relatively recently so that one company has been dominant and has the vast
majority of insured older people among its customers.

In order to allow cost-sharing between the generations which hold insurance,
risk equalisation operates a system of health credits and stamp duties. The
health credits apply to insured people over 60 and means their premium is
discounted by an amount appropriate to their age so that the cost is lowered and
community rating is maintained. The stamp duties are levied on health insurers
to fund these credits.

Recently, I announced changes to these credits and stamp duties, in order to
ensure that health insurance continues to be subsidised for our most vulnerable
patients. I am pleased that we were able to keep the stamp duty for cheaper
plans unchanged at EUR 290 per adult and EUR 100 per child. This will help to
ensure that the option of lower-cost health insurance remains available.

We have had to increase the stamp duty on plans providing advanced cover (from
EUR 350 to EUR 399 per adult and from EUR 120 to EUR 135 per child) to help
target support where it is needed most - for older, more vulnerable patients who
would otherwise not be able to afford health insurance. In effect, the stamp
duty for advanced plans will increase by EUR 49 for adults and EUR 15 for
children. This does not mean that each plan will increase by these amounts. It
is up to the health insurers to decide their own pricing plans. Insurers can
reduce their outgoings under the scheme by taking on a fairer share of older
customers.

There is plenty of evidence that this is not happening. For example, for those
aged over 80, VHI holds 89 per cent of the market share in this age group. This
is compared with only 6 per cent held by both Laya and Aviva. Similarly, in the
70-79 age group, VHI has 78 per cent of the market, compared to 12 per cent for
Laya and 9 per cent for Aviva.

I would also remind everyone again that insurers do not have to pass on the cost
of the changes we have had to make. As I have said many times, they must look to
their own cost base. I have commissioned an independent report on the high costs
in the industry and I expect to receive it soon. I will continue to pursue all
measures to drive down costs.

Affordable protectionThe last thing we want is for health insurance to become a
luxury that existing customers can't afford. That is why we are considering a
number of possibilities including lifetime community rating, where premiums rise
depending on the age at which you first sign up for health insurance. This
provides an incentive for younger generations to take out affordable protection
at an early stage.

We are making progress towards our ultimate goal - that single-tier,
patient-centred, system of universal healthcare for all. But the maintenance of
a healthy and functioning private health insurance market is an essential step
in the transition to a market-based universal health insurance system. The
changes made during the last week ensure that we continue to protect our fair
system of community-rated health insurance, which we need now, and will continue
to need as we move to a fairer and better health system in the future.

Dr James Reilly is Minister for Health

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                     Agweek

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              April 3, 2017 Monday

Ag businesses, farmers seek answers on health care

BYLINE: Jonathan KnutsonStaff Writer, Agweek Magazine

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1786 words


April 03--This is the second in a two-part series on the challenges that rising
health insurance costs pose to U.S. agriculture. The first part, published in
the March 24 issue of Agweek, focused primarily on one farm family.

WISHEK, N.D. -- Like other agricultural business owners, Troy Scherr understands
the value of offering health insurance to employees. And like most other
business owners, he's struggling with escalating costs that make doing so
increasingly difficult.

"We want to attract and retain key employees. Having health insurance is a big
part of attracting good people. And it's a big part of retaining good ones,"
says Scherr, co-owner of Sayler Implement, an independent John Deere dealership
with locations in Linton and Wishek, N.D. "But it just keeps getting more and
more expensive."

Scherr says the premiums he pays for employees' health insurance have doubled in
the past five years. Increases of that size are common, people involved in ag
say. They also say that as costs soar, health insurance has replaced markets and
weather as many agriculturalists' biggest concern.

Now, with the Trump administration and Congress struggling through contentious
changes to federal health care policies, there's uncertainty about what will --
and should -- come next. But Scherr speaks for many in ag when he says, "I don't
know what the solution is, but something needs to be done."

Some in ag think that farm organizations, such as grower groups, can provide
part of the answer.

Theresia Gillie, a Hallock, Minn., farmer and president of her state Soybean
Growers Association, says the organization is researching a large group health
insurance plan that would be "viable for our members."

Initially, she hoped her association would have a plan developed by this summer.
But the process is complicated, and the goal now is to have something to
announce by early 2018, she says.

Ag concerns

Health insurance is a huge concern for Americans in general. But it may be
particularly worrisome in agriculture:

--10.7 percent of U.S. farm households had no form of health insurance, compared
with 9.1 percent of the general population, according to a 2015 U.S. Department
of Agriculture study.

--Farm households are slightly more likely than their general population to
secure their own insurance, rather than obtain it through an employer, according
to the USDA study.

--Historically, many important decisions -- such as whether to enter farming or
stay in an off-farm job -- have been affected by health-insurance availability.
As health care concerns grow, that influence intensifies.

--Some health insurance providers are pulling out of rural areas, reducing the
number of options for agriculturalists and ag businesses that live or operate in
them.

--Rising health insurance costs, coupled with low crop and livestock prices and
poor farm profitability, leave farmers and ranchers less money to spend at their
local businesses.

"The more they have to spend on health care, the less they can spend here at the
dealership," Scherr says of his customers.

Rising insurance and medical costs also stress small rural health-care
facilities and other small-town businesses, Gillie says.

Encouraging so-called "telehealth" is especially important in rural areas with
limited health care, says Jordan Feyerherm, a project organizer for the Lyons,
Neb.,-based Center for Rural Affairs. His organization describes itself as
"unapologetically rural. We stand up for the small family farmer and rancher,
new business owner, and rural communities."

Trouble is, insurers see telehealth as a "lower-cost service" and want to pay
less for it, he says.

Looming physician shortages in rural areas strengthens the need for telehealth
and puts even more stress on rural health care and insurance, Feyerherm says.

He also says that while the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, has
received heavy criticism, it has allowed some farm families to obtain health
insurance.

"I know small farmers in rural Nebraska who (before the ACA) didn't have health
insurance or only had catastrophic and never went to the doctor," Feyerherm
says.

'Changing marketplace'

Concerns about health insurance affordability are nothing new, says Shawnee
Christenson, owner/agent of Crosstown Insurance in New Hope, Minn., and
president-elect of the Minnesota Health Underwriters Association.

Pat Bellmore, chief marketing officer for Blue Cross Blue Shield of North
Dakota, recalls such concerns when he was a young field representative 32 years
ago.

"We're constantly working with federal and state lawmakers to find alternative
solutions for a more competitive marketplace, while also keeping in mind the
need for affordability. It's an age-old issue," he says.

Denise Kolpack, the organization's senior vice president of brand strategy and
communications, says the Blues are "committed to work with provider partners to
reduce health care inflation."

Nonetheless, the Affordable Care Act created what's "definitely a changing
marketplace," Bellmore says.

Consumers need to "take a look at all the plans that are available and what ones
might fit their needs," he says. "Do your due diligence."

Farmers can be eligible for an advanced premium tax credit that lowers the cost
of health insurance, Christenson says.

But the credits, if any, are based in part on estimated income for the coming
year. Annual farm income can vary greatly and unpredictably, so a
taxpayer/farmer might need to repay the credit if he or she has a good year
financially, Christenson says.

Bigger deductibles

Health insurance premiums have soared for years. In recent years, however, the
percentage increase of premium costs have slowed, with the size of deductibles
rising relatively faster, says Michelle Long, a policy analyst with the the
Kaiser Family Foundation in Washington, D.C. The nonprofit organization focuses
on major health care issues facing the nation and conducts annual surveys of
health care costs.

By all accounts, consumers, both in and out of ag, are selecting options with
higher deductibles to limit the increase in premiums.

"Just about everybody has these high deductibles now, and they're paying a lot
for premiums, too," Gillie says.

A 2016 survey by the Kaiser Foundation found the size of deductibles in
employer-provided plans have increased an average 67 percent since 2010.

There aren't a lot of hard statistics on how much farm families and ag
businesses and their employees pay for health insurance. But Long says the 2016
Kaiser survey came up with these numbers for employers in the ag, mining and
construction sector that provide health insurance for their workers:

--An average annual cost of $6,400 for single-coverage premiums, with employees
paying an average of about $1,100.

--An average annual cost of about $18,000 for family-coverage premiums, with
employees paying an average of slightly more than $5,000.

Young aggies

Health insurance is a concern for just about everyone involved in ag, but young
farmers appear to be at particular risk. Farmers and others say young aggies,
like young adults in general, sometimes go without it, especially when faced
with other pressing financial needs.

Bobby Jones, 30, realizes that health insurance is a big deal. Even so, he and
his wife, Chelsea Losh-Jones, 29, don't have it.

"It's been an issue since our son (Tripp, now 2 1/2 ) was born," Bobby Jones
says.

The couple launched Babe+Sage Farm, a small vegetable operation -- which Jones
says provides "enough (income) to make a living off of" -- in Gordon, Ga., in
2011. The name comes from a line in a poem by William Henry Channing, and
doesn't refer to either Jones or his wife.

Jones says his young family has a "long, complicated health insurance story."
When he and his future wife started the farm, he didn't have coverage but
Chelsea, unmarried at the time, was still young enough to be covered for a year
under her parents' plan.

Later, the two were without health insurance for a time, then obtained it
through the ACA.

"We got a subsidy and had coverage we liked," Bobby Jones says.

Then Tripp was born and the family went from a two- to three-person household.
Under scratch-your-head, hard-to-explain provisions in Georgia law, Jones and
his wife no longer qualified for a subsidy, and so they lost their coverage.
Tripp is covered, however.

"It's specific to our state," Jones says. "We're not eligible for Medicaid, but
we're also not eligible for a subsidy."

Jones says he and his wife, in the time they've been without insurance, have
been "pretty lucky. We've been relatively healthy." Even so, he's had two
on-farm accidents that required trips to the emergency room.

"Without insurance, it gets expensive real fast," he says.

Jones and his wife have obtained what he calls "an accident policy, a
supplemental insurance policy. It's not a health insurance policy. It's pretty
cheap and pretty limited."

He's uncertain when he and his wife will secure health insurance, but says, "Any
business has to be optimistic."

Jones is working with the National Young Farmers Coalition to publicize the
problems that young farmers face with health insurance

Young producers nationwide are struggling with health insurance, says Andrew
Bahrenburg, national policy director of the Hudson, N.Y.,-based organization.

'Need to come down'

Scherr, in his 17th year with the implement dealership, says young people don't
always fully appreciate the importance of health insurance.

"If you're young and single, it's probably not seen as a big thing. But as you
get older, as you get a family, kids, it's a big part of your benefit package,"
he says, adding that his staff, which ranges in age from 22 to their early 50s,
is "younger overall."

Though premiums continue to rise, his dealership still pays 100 percent of the
cost of individual coverage for its 22 employees. Employees may not always
realize the additional cost to the company, Scherr says.

"It's not seen as a raise because you don't see it in your paycheck," he says.

He evaluates the value and cost of health care insurance every year.

"We do have great employees," he says. "I want to pay 100 percent of a single
plan" and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future.

Even so, employers can't continue to absorb higher health insurance costs
indefinitely, he says.

"I hope the new administration comes up with more affordable health care for
everyone. Everybody needs it," Scherr says. "These costs need to come down."

For a list of health care resources, visit
http://www.agweek.com/news/nation-and-world/4243240-health-care-and-
health-insurance-resources.

___ (c)2017 Agweek Magazine (Grand Forks, N.D.) Visit Agweek Magazine (Grand
Forks, N.D.) at www.agweek.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170403-AW-Ag-businesses-farmers-seek-answers-on-health-care-0403-20170403

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AW


                             Copyright 2017 Agweek


                              401 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            October 6, 2012 Saturday

Add another cost to health care

BYLINE: Rapid City Journal

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 246 words


South Dakota Gov. Dennis Daugaard announced last week that the state would let
the federal government operate its health insurance exchange, saying it would
cost too much for South Dakota to set up its own exchange.

The requirement for health insurance exchanges is part of the Affordable Care
Act. The exchange is an online insurance marketplace.

South Dakota received a $1 million grant to explore the development of a
state-run exchange. The state hired a national firm to evaluate the cost of an
insurance exchange.

An analysis by Navigant estimates that it would cost between $6.3 million and
$7.7 million annually to run a state exchange here.

Daugaard said that it was too expensive. "The federal law requires exchanges to
be self-sustaining by 2015, which means we would either have to charge a fee to
South Dakota citizens using the exchange, or increase taxes, neither of which I
am willing to do," Daugaard said.

Daugaard is right to pass on creating a state-run health insurance exchange if
it means increasing health care costs for South Dakotans. It would be one more
unfunded federal mandate.

Of course, a federally operated health insurance exchange is not going to be
more efficient or less expensive. But it won't increase health care costs for
South Dakotans, at least directly.

What concerns us is that as we learn more about the Affordable Care Act, the
higher the price tag gets. Yet, the law's supporters promised that it would make
health care less expensive.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2012 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             March 13, 2016 Sunday
                                 State Edition

Health care costs concealed by misdirection

BYLINE: Scott Burns Special to American-Statesman

SECTION: BUSI; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 748 words


The most common element of magic tricks is misdirection. The magician draws your
attention to one thing so you won't see what he is doing with something else.

As a personal finance writer, I don't think about magic often. I try to stick
with the evidence and the odds. Then I thought about Penn and Teller, the
popular duo with a longstanding act in Las Vegas. Lone-wolf magicians perform
most magic. Penn and Teller are unusual. They operate as a team, a bit like our
health care institutions.

Health care has become an elaborate institutional magic trick.

In one misdirection after another, the price always disappears.

Is that just too weird? I don't think so.

The existence of employer-provided health insurance is a misdirection. It
encourages us to think that health care is free, or at least paid for by someone
else.

The existence of private health insurance is a misdirection. Private insurance
that excludes pre-existing conditions fools us. It allows us to think that
health care is less expensive because it excludes many who are really sick.
Remember, insurance is about sharing risk.

The existence of government plans that provide health insurance is yet another
misdirection. It also gives the illusion that health care doesn't cost much.
Another taxpayer is picking up the tab.

In fact, the fundamental problem with health care is that it costs too much.
Rather than attack that problem, the institutions that live on health care
dollars connive to provide colossal misdirection. Their goal? Preserving the
illusion that health care is affordable for the vast majority of Americans.

It isn't. We can see this by doing a few exercises with a handy online
calculator on the Kaiser Family Foundation website. It allows you to estimate
the cost of health insurance under the Affordable Care Act. It does this for
households of different size and income. It will give you a clear idea of the
cost of insurance and how much your subsidy, if you qualify, will be. It also
unmasks the total costs. Here are a few examples, all assuming a silver plan.

A 24-year-old single worker earning $30,000 a year will pay $2,497 a year after
a subsidy of $312. That means health insurance will cost 8.32 percent of income
rather than 9.4 percent. That worker is also paying 7.65 percent of income in
employment taxes. His marginal income tax rate is 15 percent and his average
income tax rate is 7.8 percent. So 24 percent of his income comes off the top
before a dime can be spent on living expenses.

A young couple, ages 27 and 25, with no children and earning $50,000 a year will
pay $4,830 a year after a subsidy of $929 a year. Their out-of-pocket health
insurance cost is 9.66 percent of income. They'll pay an additional 7.65 percent
in employment taxes. Their marginal tax rate is 15 percent and their average tax
rate is 6.9 percent. Again, 24 percent of their income comes off the top, before
living expenses.

A 55-year-old single worker earning $40,000 a year will pay $3,864 a year, after
a subsidy of $2,395 a year. This means his health insurance will cost him 9.66
percent of income rather than 15.6 percent. Like the younger worker, the older
worker is paying 7.65 percent of income in employment taxes. He also has a
marginal tax rate of 15 percent and an average tax rate of 7.8 percent. So a bit
over 25 percent of income comes off the top, before living expenses.

Exercises with other household types produced similar results. But the most
important fact is the cost of health insurance. Without subsidy, it ranged from
about 10 percent to 19 percent of income. The actual cost of health insurance
often exceeds what individuals and families pay in employment taxes or income
taxes.

But even at these high figures, the cost of health care is incomplete. The
calculator also provides an estimate of the health care expenses covered by
insurance. The typical figure is 70 percent. In other words, even with
subsidies, workers may face expenses that can cause personal bankruptcy. The
all-in cost of health care blows away the cost of employment taxes or income
taxes.

If you'll excuse the technical jargon, this is what some call "a real pickle"
for people on the lower end of the wage scale. The fundamental reality is that
health care costs too much. That fact, not renewed misdirection, should be the
starting point for renewed health care reform.

Scott Burns is a nationally syndicated columnist who has been writing about
personal finance since 1977. Send questions to scott@scottburns.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                            April 3, 1991, Wednesday

WIDE RANGE OF HEALTH CARE CRISIS CURES OFFERED

BYLINE: From Wire Reports

SECTION: INSURANCE, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Conn.


Everyone agrees something needs to be done for the 35 million Americans without
health care insurance, but legislators, insurers, providers and labor leaders
disagree on the solution to the problem.

More than two-thirds of the uninsured are members of a family in which at least
one person works, but for an employer who does not provide health nsurance.

Health insurance companies contend that the solution is to provide affordable
insurance so that more employers will be able to buy coverage for their workers.
Some legislators, however, believe a broader, federal program is needed.

The Health Insurance Association of America, a trade group for insurance
companies, has developed a plan that would provide affordable group health
coverage for small businesses with limits on annual rate increases.

The plan is based on the establishment of reinsurance pools that would allow
participating companies to spread out and share their risks.

The plan also would provide tax incentives for small businesses, risk pools for
medically uninsurable individuals, Medicare reform and exemption from
state-mandated coverage, which officials of the group say adds 20 percent or
more to the cost of health insurance.

Carl Schramm, president of the trade group, said insurance companies would like
to address the problem at the state level. "We are anxious to work with
legislators and regulators to tailor the HIAA plan to individual state
requirements," he said.

Some legislators, though, believe the best way to provide health insurance
coverage for all Americans is to create a federal program, perhaps through an
expansion of Medicaid.

''I am not convinced that piecemeal approaches based in the private sector will
achieve our common goal of universal coverage," said Rep. Pete Stark, D-Calif.,
chairman of a House health subcommittee.

Rep. Stark also believes a federal health insurance program would do the best
job of containing costs.

''I am convinced that meaningful cost containment is beyond the capability of
the private sector to achieve," he said.

''The evidence for this is the Medicare program," Rep. Stark said. ''While
private sector costs are rising more than 10 percent per year in real dollars,
Medicare's costs have been increasing 3 percent per year in real terms," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              404 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily News of Newburyport (Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 27, 2011 Tuesday

Rising health care costs in forecast

BYLINE: Bruno Matarazzo Jr., The Daily News of Newburyport, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 383 words


Dec. 27--AMESBURY -- It's not even 2012 yet, but Amesbury officials are already
beginning work on fiscal year 2013's budget.

Some numbers coming in show that it isn't going to be an easy time.

Health insurance increases for school employees will be between $350,000 to
$400,000, according to school district business manager Michael Bergeron.

Bergeron updated School Committee members last week with some early numbers.

One number will be unknown: salary for union employees. All unions will be up
for new contracts next year.

Last year, all the unions, both in the schools and on the town side, agreed to
one-year contract extensions with no pay increases.

This month, School Committee members have begun meeting in nonpublic sessions to
discuss upcoming contract negotiations.

Mayor Thatcher Kezer said negotiations will start after Jan. 1. Health insurance
will likely be part of that discussion.

Kezer said the expected increases for next year are "staggering."

The increases in health insurance come after all the unions and schools in the
town twice agreed to changes in their health insurance plans.

While salaries for town and school employees decreased by $100,000 over four
years, Amesbury has seen their health insurance costs go up by about $550,000
during that same time period, according to the mayor.

Kezer said the town would have seen an increase of about $1 million in health
insurance costs had the unions not agreed to changes in their insurance plans in
2009 and this year.

A game-changer next budget season will be the new municipal health insurance
reform law passed this year that gives mayors and town managers more power to
make health insurance changes.

"It definitely gives municipalities much more leverage to implement health care
changes," Kezer said. "The end result, we'll find out."

Aside from the health insurance increases, other numbers important to the budget
won't be changing too much.

There are no cuts expected in local aid as in years past, and the district won't
be facing steep cuts in grant funding. Last year, the district experienced a
loss of $1.9 million in federal stimulus money.

___ (c)2011 The Daily News of Newburyport (Newburyport, Mass.) Visit The Daily
News of Newburyport (Newburyport, Mass.) at www.newburyportnews.com Distributed
by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111227-ZN-Rising-health-care-costs-in-forecast-1227-20111227

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZN


                  Copyright 2011 The Daily News of Newburyport


                              405 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 27, 1992 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Support for tax relief to boost health insurance

BYLINE: NEIL BATT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 850 words


NEIL BATT, Executive director of the Health Benefits Council of Victoria.

FOR too long health policy in Australia has been an ideological battleground.
Recent proposals before the Federal Government have included the nationalisation
of the health insurance industry and the abolition of the choice of doctor. The
simple and obvious solutions are avoided because of blinkered doctrinal views.

Health policy is in a mess. MediCare has provided universality of cover but has
also led to previously unheard of waiting lists, deteriorating public hospital
capital provision and a private health insurance industry that is on a
merry-go-round of increasing charges and declining membership.

The system is sustained by mythology which needs to be dispelled to enable the
obvious solutions to emerge.

Myth No. 1 The Medicare levy.

Many people believe that the compulsory 1.25 per cent levy funds Medicare. In
fact, it only raises about 20 per cent of the total cost.

Health is not cheap and should not appear to be so.

Myth No. 2 Health insurance.

The myth is that private health insurance is less important than the Medicare
levy. The facts are otherwise. Last financial year health funds paid out more
dollars to health care than the medicare levy raised.

Health fund payouts totalled $3.1billion while the Medicare levy raised only
$2.5billion.

Myth No. 3 Cost containment.

It is argued that one of the achievements of Medicare has been cost containment,
so that, as a proportion of GDP, Australian expenditure on health has remained
at about eight per cent. It is difficult to understand what is so magical about
this figure other than the fact that it is halfway between the UK and US
figures.

What the Commonwealth has done is to hold down its costs at the expense of other
institutions and individuals. It has artificially restricted the Medicare
benefits schedule so that, as a result, $600million must be paid out in out of
pocket costs to meet the difference between the Medicare benefit and the actual
fee. It has shifted more than $450million of its own expenditure over to the
health fund system since Medicare was introduced. Some 38 per cent of the
current cost of health insurance is due to the actions of government.

The central importance of private health insurance is rarely recognised.

It is the foundation on which the whole edifice of quality health care stands.
Without private health insurance there would be no private hospitals and no
independent private health practitioners. There would be no private patients in
public hospitals nor the enormous financial input that these patients make which
enables the whole system to continue. Freedom of choice would be gone and
quality health care at risk.

Yet the system is at risk because of the impositions of governments which have
driven up the costs and put private health funds on a merry-go-round from which
they cannot escape. As costs increase, those who believe they are healthy enough
to take the risk of being uninsured drop out. Those who are likely to be the
heavy users stay in and hence the costs go up and hence _ and so on.

THE Government appears to have been content to stand by and allow the whole
system to be at risk. And that is in spite of the views of the people.

The Australian Health Insurance Association recently carried out a survey in the
electorate of Wills asking three main questions _ whether people believed those
who took out health insurance should be assisted via tax rebates; whether this
would increase insurance levels; and whether they wanted a competitive
environment or a Government monopoly.

This is how they voted: An overwhelming majority (77 per cent) of those surveyed
believed strongly that people who take out private health insurance should
receive a tax rebate.

An even larger proportion (92 per cent) of those surveyed said they believed
there would be an increase in the numbers privately insured if a tax rebate was
provided.

Tax incentives seemed highly favored by those currently uninsured _ with 89 per
cent believing a tax break would encourage a greater take-up of private health
insurance.

Almost three-quarters of the electors surveyed showed a very strong preference
for retention of the existing competitive health insurance market.

Support for the private funds carried across all political parties, all age
groups and was significently high among people who are currently uninsured.

Why not a carrot and a stick?

SIX hundred thousand people on low incomes struggle without taxation relief to
maintain their own health insurance. Twenty five per cent of those who earn more
than one thousand dollars a week pay nothing into the system but rely on the
Government thus displacing from public hospital beds those who are not able to
provide for themselves. The public hospitals have queues. The private hospitals
have surplus capacity.

It would be sensible to put doctrine aside and for Australia to have a
bipartisan policy which gives tax relief to those who help themselves and a tax
penalty to encourage those who can afford it to take our health insurance. I am
not aware of any other solution.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1992 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                              June 10, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Health Care Chronology: 1867: Section 92 of the British North America Act gives
provinces the exclusive right to make laws governing "The Establishment,
Maintenance, and Management of Hospitals, Asylums, and Eleemosynary Institutions
in and for the Province, other than Marine Hospitals."

BYLINE: Compiled by Alex Hutchinson, Windsor Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 613  words


1919: Dominion Department of Health established.

1935: The B.C. government introduces a preliminary bill calling for provincial
health insurance. The B.C. Health Insurance Act passes the following year, but
is never implemented.

1940: The Royal Commission on Dominion-Provincial Relations recommends health
insurance funded by federal cost-sharing, in order to keep similar levels of
care between provinces.

1945: The Green Book Proposals arising from the Dominion-Provincial Conference
on Reconstruction bring serious discussion to the idea of universal health
insurance. Provincial dissatisfaction over the redistribution of taxation power
prevents the proposals from being adopted.

1947: Tommy Douglas's CCF government implements the Saskatchewan Hospital
Services Plan, creating Canada's first public health insurance plan.

1948: The National Health Grants program, which gives federal money to the
provinces for health care, is introduced by finance minister Paul Martin Sr.

1955: Premier Leslie Frost's Progressive Conservative government in Ontario
introduces its own Hospital Insurance Program, and Frost calls for federal cost
-sharing for the program at a Federal-Provincial Conference.

1957: National hospital insurance legislation is introduced by the Liberal
government, providing 50-50 cost-sharing with the provinces.

1962: Saskatchewan introduces insurance for medical care -- now covering
out-patient care as well as hospital services -- and doctors react with a
provincewide strike. Foreign doctors are brought in and the provincial Supreme
Court orders the doctors back to work three weeks later.

1964: Justice Emmett Hall's Royal Commission on Health Services, appointed three
years earlier, issues its final report recommending universal health insurance.

1966: The Medical Care Insurance Act passes by a vote of 177 to 2 in the House
of Commons. When it is implemented two years later, Ottawa will pay half the
costs of health insurance for any province that signs up.

1977: Pierre Trudeau replaces the 50-50 federal-provincial cost-sharing formula
with a system of block grants.

1984: The Canada Health Act comes into effect, establishing five criteria that
provinces must fulfil to receive federal transfer money: public administration,
comprehensiveness, universality, portability and accessibility.

1990: Federal transfer payments for health care are frozen for five years

1994: Jean Chretien appoints the National Forum on Health, which issues a final
report three years later concluding that publicly administered, not-for-profit
health care is still the best model.

2000: Ralph Klein's Bill 11 allows minor surgical procedures such as hernia
operations to be contracted out to private care facilities in Alberta. Oct.
2002: Senator Michael Kirby's report on health care proposes a dedicated
health-care tax, and suggests the government pay for out-of-province or
out-of-country treatment if patients fail to receive timely care.

Nov. 2002: Former Saskatchewan premier Roy Romanow's Royal Commission on the
Future of Health Care issues its final report. He favours restricting the role
of the private sector, for instance suggesting that diagnostic MRI scans be
added to the list of services covered by the Canada Health Act.

Feb. 2003: Jean Chretien agrees to provide an additional $34.8 billion of
federal money over five years in an agreement with the premiers on health care
funding.

Sep. 2004: The provinces and Ottawa sign a 10-year deal worth $41 billion, and
an agreement on national benchmarks for reducing wait times is negotiated.
Quebec signs a separate deal on wait times. Ralph Klein leaves after the opening
session, vowing to pursue more private clinics.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: (See hard copy for Photo).

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            January 7, 1992, Tuesday

Go for it, President Bush

SECTION: EDITORIAL; SECTION A; PAGE 08

LENGTH: 454 words


President Bush well knows that "ideas have consequences." Now he's learning,
when it comes to domestic issues, no ideas have consequences, too.

With the Democrats gathering popular political sentiment, suddenly Mr. Bush has
become a font of domestic ideas. Most remain too vague to comment on now, but
one, despite its lack of detail, warrants support in principle: personal tax
credits to pay for health-care insurance.

To give credit where credit's due, George Bush didn't dream up the health
insurance tax credit idea himself. The Heritage Foundation, a conservative
policy organization, has championed it for some time. Nonetheless, Mr. Bush was
smart enough to see its merit. Of the 30-plus health-care reform proposals
floating around Washington health insurance tax credits is the only progressive,
consumer-oriented approach.

The idea is remarkably simple. Everyone would be required to buy health
insurance, much like all motorists must purchase car insurance. And instead of
giving corporate America a $ 48 billion tax break for company-financed health
insurance, American families would receive a tax credit to defray the cost of
health insurance. Families with lower incomes or higher health-care costs would
receive larger tax credits. No one would go uninsured. Those too poor to pay
federal income taxes would file for a return and get a government check to pay
for their health coverage.

The principle behind health-insurance tax credits represents a fundamental
American value. Citizens, rich and poor alike, should control their lives with
as little paternalistic government intervention as possible. Americans are
entitled to the liberty of determining the best choices for themselves and their
families. With health insurance tax credits individuals would decide which
health insurance plan to purchase. It might be company-sponsored plan, or a
union one, or a health-provider plan. Yes, making the choice would require some
study and thought - come on, if we can buy our own car insurance we can do
likewise with health coverage.

What a difference that idea is from the other two major health- reform
proposals. National health care, akin to the Canadian system, would give
government greater control over personal health-care decisions. The Democrats'
"pay or play" plan perpetuates the worst flaws in our current health-care
system: People would be bound to their employer's program or be forced to accept
government's safety-net insurance. No individual choices. Business and
bureaucrats decide the health-care programs best for you. Take it or leave it.

No, thank you. We will wait for President Bush to restore freedom of choice over
health care.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                              408 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright (c) 2012 Nevada Law Journal
                               Nevada Law Journal

                                  Summer, 2012

                               Nevada Law Journal

                                12 Nev. L.J. 868

LENGTH: 11748 words

NOTE: Health Care Exchanges: How the Government Can Use Market Forces to Fix the
Health Care System

NAME: Bracken H. Longhurst*

BIO: * William S. Boyd School of Law, J.D. Candidate, May 2012. Special thanks
to my wife, our parents, and our children for their continued love, support, and
patience. I also appreciate Kammi Rencher for her strong editorial support and
the other members of the Nevada Law Journal staff for their dedicated efforts
relating to this Note.

TEXT:
 [*868]

   Introduction

 Most Americans agree that the current health care system is broken, n1 since
health care costs have dramatically increased over the past several decades,
continue to climb, and show no sign of relenting in their ascent. n2 However,
while health care costs have increased, the number of people who have adequate
health insurance has decreased to record lows. n3 These startling trends serve
as a call to fix the health care system to save families and governments from
financial peril.

   Agreeing that the health care system is broken, however, does not translate
into a broad consensus of how to fix it. On March 23, 2010, President Barack
Obama culminated a contentious legislative battle by signing into law the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("PPACA"). n4 While the battle
surrounding PPACA's passage has ended, the contentious debate about PPACA's
substance rages on. Opponents are challenging the constitutionality of PPACA in
federal courts. n5 In Congress, some are attempting to defund portions of
[*869]  PPACA. n6 Meanwhile, congressional opponents have vowed to repeal and
replace PPACA. n7 In the midst of this sharp debate, President Obama has
publicly recognized that PPACA is not perfect, and has expressed his amenability
to legislation that might further health care reform. n8

   This Note presents a viable and relatively simple solution to fixing the
broken health care system, either by replacing or amending PPACA - an expansion
of health insurance exchanges to more comprehensive health care exchanges.
Health care exchanges ("HCE") would combine a health insurance exchange with a
health provider exchange, n9 and would reward consumers that focus on value. n10
HCEs would fix the health care system and deliver the major commitments and
goals of both proponents and opponents of PPACA, which are: 1) lower overall
health care costs, 2) lower health insurance premiums, 3) increase the number of
people covered by adequate health insurance, 4) remove the pre-existing
conditions barrier to adequate health insurance for nearly all individuals, and
5) allow individuals to keep the doctor and health insurance plan of their
choice. n11 In addition to these lofty benefits, HCEs could also empower
consumers; increase accountability of health insurance providers ("insurance
providers"), health care providers ("doctors"), and patients or customers
("consumers"); reduce non-productive billing practices and negotiations between
doctors and insurance providers; allow portability of health insurance plans;
and reward good participation while punishing bad behavior.

   HCEs would likely have broad bipartisan support because they would accomplish
bipartisan goals instead of focusing on the contentious political debate of
whether government or market control is more productive to fix the  [*870]
broken health care system. n12 Progressives generally argue that government
control is more productive. n13 They argue that increased regulation enables the
government to force health care costs down to sustainable levels and fix the
broken health care industry. n14 On the other side, conservatives argue that
markets are more productive, n15 and that increased regulation only increases
health care costs and further breaks the health care system. n16 They argue that
removing regulations would reduce health care costs and fix the health care
system. n17 Both sides are right, and both sides are wrong. Because the health
care system is broken, and health care is an atypical product, government
intervention is needed to organize health care into a properly functioning
market. Yet, once the market incentives are properly aligned, government
intervention decreases or destroys the market's ability to deliver effective
results because decisions would be made based on politics instead of economics.

   Instead, HCEs focus on who is at fault for increasing health care costs.
Doctors blame insurance providers for not adequately reimbursing them for
services provided. n18 Insurance providers blame doctors for over-charging and
performing unnecessary care. n19 Doctors and insurance providers blame consumers
for being uninsured. n20 Consumers blame insurance providers for reducing
coverage and raising premiums. n21

   Who really is at fault: insurance providers, doctors, or consumers? In
reality, they are all at fault - yet none are fully to blame. For the most part,
each participant acts according to the incentives of the current health care
system. Consumers want the best available care while paying the least amount,
doctors want to improve consumers' health while making a sufficient profit to
survive as a business, and insurance providers want to decrease health care
costs to ensure solvency and profitability. This Note will explain why these
incentives, while individually good and necessary, are misaligned.

   After discussing the current health care system in Part II, this Note will
explore the possible health care system under HCEs in Part III. Part IV will
[*871]  discuss the roles of federal and state governments in establishing and
maintaining HCEs, and Part V will briefly conclude.

   II. The Current Health Care System

   A. Overview

 According to a 1919 study, the biggest loss stemming from illness was lost
wages. n22 Today, in contrast, health care costs are so substantial that the
inability to pay medical bills often forces Americans into bankruptcy. n23
Because health care costs have dramatically increased over the past several
decades, medical bills have become a financial threat to Americans. n24

   In addition to threatening the financial stability of Americans, the
increasing costs of health care threaten the financial stability of federal and
state governments. Acting as a safety net to society, federal and state
governments provide funding for health insurance programs like Medicare and
Medicaid. n25 As health care costs increase, governments are directly affected
by the increased cost of providing insurance coverage. n26 The government is
also indirectly affected by rising health care costs because more people enroll
in government health insurance programs as private health insurance becomes more
expensive. n27

   With rising health care costs threatening the financial stability of families
and governments, one important question must be answered: Why are health care
costs rising so dramatically? While many individual factors contribute to rising
health care costs, the most significant reason is because the current health
care system lacks incentives to increase value by lowering costs and increasing
quality. n28 To illustrate this lack of incentive, this section will discuss
current trends regarding how consumers obtain health insurance, how consumers
select doctors, and why consumers often ignore the economic value of health care
services.

   B. Obtaining Health Insurance

 In 2009, just over half of Americans (55.8 percent) gained access to health
insurance under employment-based health insurance. n29 Employers began offering
[*872]  health insurance benefits during the wage freezes of the 1940s to
incentivize and attract employees. n30 Offering health insurance benefits
quickly became the norm for large businesses because of the tax incentives
provided by the federal government. n31

   Employment-based health insurance provides consumers with significant
benefits. In addition to receiving financial assistance to obtain coverage,
consumers benefit from employment-based health insurance by pooling risk with a
group. n32 Pooling risk provides bargaining power, which results in lower
overall costs and allows consumers with poor health histories to obtain health
insurance where they might not otherwise be able to do so. n33 Finally,
consumers benefit from employment-based health insurance because they receive
health insurance as tax exempt compensation. n34

   Employment-based health insurance also has disadvantages. First, the employer
decides which health insurance provider will cover the group. n35 While the
employer may offer consumers a few different health insurance plans to choose
from, consumers are severely limited in choosing a plan that is best for their
unique circumstances. n36 As a result, health insurance providers compete to
provide plans that employers feel are best for the employer, rather than for the
individual consumer. n37 Second, consumers who want to keep their health
insurance plan cannot do so when changing employment. n38 This lack of
portability often creates "job-lock," where consumers avoid transferring
employment to avoid losing health insurance benefits. n39 Finally, households
with two employed members who have access to employment-based insurance benefits
lose significant compensation value because households usually only participate
in one employment-based insurance plan. n40

    [*873]  For the increasing number of consumers who are not eligible for
employment-based or government health insurance, n41 the individual health
insurance market is riddled with barriers to accessing adequate health insurance
. n42 Individual health insurance plans are expensive, and the cost must be
borne wholly by the individual. n43 Consumers who purchase individual health
insurance plans do not enjoy any tax exemptions. n44 To compensate for increased
premiums, individuals often are forced into plans with fewer benefits, higher
deductibles, and more restrictions. n45 Furthermore, in the past and until PPACA
becomes effective in 2014, people with a poor history of health and pre-existing
conditions also face significantly increased costs and may even be denied
coverage. n46

   For consumers who do not qualify for employment-based health insurance and
cannot afford or access individual health insurance, the government provides
insurance coverage through programs like Medicare and Medicaid. n47
Unfortunately, many do not qualify for government insurance for various reasons.
n48 Those who do qualify face greater difficulty finding a doctor who will
accept the insurance because of the government's history of reimbursing doctors
at relatively lower rates. n49

   As health care costs increase, health insurance providers adjust to maintain
solvency and profitability. To offset increased costs, insurance providers seek
to increase revenue by raising premiums. n50 Because premiums continue to grow
faster than wages, insurance providers attempt to moderate the increase in
premiums by increasing deductibles and reducing what is covered by health
insurance plans. n51 Insurance providers also attempt to control costs by
decreasing  [*874]  the reimbursement amounts that doctors receive for
performing health care services. n52 Government insurance programs reduce
reimbursement rates simply by setting reimbursement amounts at the level it is
willing to pay for services. n53 Doctors can accept or reject consumers covered
under government programs, but doctors have no power to change the amount
received for health care services performed. n54 The government sets
reimbursement rates low based on the theory that doctors will increase
efficiency to maintain profitability. n55 In reality, however, instead of
increasing efficiency, doctors simply pass any lost margin onto consumers with
private health insurance, or worse, those with no health insurance at all. n56

   Private health insurance companies reduce reimbursement amounts by
negotiating with doctors. Health insurance companies negotiate from a position
of strength because most consumers are covered under private health insurance,
and therefore doctors' revenue largely comes from health insurance companies.
n57 Health insurance companies negotiate with doctors and establish a specific
discounted rate for health care services before doctors provide treatment. n58
Doctors who agree to this discounted rate are considered "in-network," and
insurance companies punish consumers who receive services from "out-of-network"
doctors by requiring them to share more of the costs. n59 Furthermore, after a
doctor bills a health insurance company for services performed, the insurance
company works relentlessly to lower the amount it must reimburse the doctor. n60

   Ironically, an indirect factor that determines the cost of health insurance
is the number of people who lack adequate health insurance. n61 When a consumer
[*875]  fails to pay medical bills, medical providers are forced to recuperate
that loss to remain solvent. n62 Medical providers recuperate this loss by
charging more for services to consumers who have adequate health insurance. n63
To cover the increased costs of coverage, health insurance providers pass this
cost on to consumers by increasing the cost of health insurance. n64
Unfortunately, the increase in health insurance causes more consumers to lack
adequate health insurance, and this creates an inflationary cycle for the cost
of health care and health insurance. n65

   In summary, most consumers gain access to adequate health insurance through
employment-based insurance. For those not eligible for employment-based health
insurance, the individual market is riddled with barriers to accessing
affordable insurance. Although some are eligible for a government insurance
program, the overall number of consumers who are uninsured or underinsured has
reached a record high. As this number rises, the cost of health care also
increases, thereby increasing insurance premiums. This perpetuates an
inflationary cycle for health care and insurance costs.

   C. Selecting a Doctor

 To effectively select a doctor, consumers need readily available information to
compare the price and quality of services among doctors. Today, thanks to
technological advances in communications, consumers can search for and compare
the value of nearly every product or service they wish to purchase. n66 However,
health care services are a glaring exception to this general rule. n67 One
commentator succinctly stated, "Medicine is the one capitalist enterprise to
reveal its price tag only after the purchase or transaction is completed." n68
Furthermore, consumers struggle to determine and compare the potential quality
of a doctor's services. n69 Because this information is not readily available,
the health care industry lacks competition based on value; therefore, health
care costs dramatically increase. n70

   Consumers struggle to compare doctors based on price because doctors do not
disclose specific prices for potential health care services. n71 There are three
basic reasons that doctors do not disclose specific prices. First, doctors often
charge different prices to different consumers depending on the consumer's
[*876]  insurance coverage. n72 Second, every consumer is unique and may require
different services, which makes it difficult for doctors to formulate specific
prices for health care services. n73 Finally, doctors do not regularly compete
for consumers based on price, so there is little need to establish and advertise
specific prices for health care services. n74

   Consumers struggle to compare doctors based on quality because information
about quality is difficult to find and synthesize. Consumers can investigate
doctors on the internet, but will likely only find general office information.
n75 Beyond this, consumers often rely on the advice of other doctors, family, or
friends. n76 While consumers' reliance on the opinions of those close to them
helps ascertain quality, it also greatly restricts consumers to a relatively low
number of potential doctors the consumer can compare. Depending on which doctors
accept the consumers' particular insurance plan, consumers are left with even
fewer options.

   In summary, consumers need adequate information to effectively select and
compare doctors based on economic value. Unfortunately, under the current health
care system consumers do not have access to information regarding the cost or
quality of services provided by doctors.

   D. Consumers Often Ignore Value

 The majority of consumers n77 ignore value because they have no direct
incentive to lower health care costs. Health care costs barely affect most
insured consumers because they do not pay the bulk of the expense for health
care services. n78 Without an incentive to lower health care costs, consumers
often disregard price altogether. n79 This disregard for price is dangerous
because it removes the consumer as an important check on rising costs. Because
consumers normally care about price, producers compete by increasing value.
[*877]  Therefore, when consumers disregard health care costs, doctors and
insurance providers will not compete by increasing value.

   Consumers who are uninsured, underinsured, or have high cost sharing plans
focus on value because they often have incentives, although limited, to lower
health care costs. n80 Unfortunately, these consumers often lack the power to
greatly affect health care costs. First, these consumers do not have the
necessary information to compare doctors. n81 Second, doctors are often hesitant
to accept these consumers because collecting payment for services performed may
be a greater challenge. n82 Finally, these consumers n83 realize that by
postponing medical care until the situation becomes serious, they can go to an
emergency room and get free health care because emergency rooms must admit and
treat every person who is critically ill, regardless of ability to pay. n84

   In summary, most consumers do not focus on value because they have no direct
incentive to lower health care costs. Additionally, those who do have limited
incentives to lower costs ultimately lack the power to greatly affect health
care costs.

   E. John and Jane: A Hypothetical Illustration of the Current Health Care
System

 After John graduated from law school, he and his wife, Jane, moved across the
country to begin work at Best, Brightest & Associates, a mid-sized law firm. The
firm offered John full health benefits through Insurance Co. and John and Jane
enrolled.

   Jane, an accountant, found a job at American Accounting, and her company also
offered generous health benefits. Because John and Jane already had full
coverage from Best, Brightest & Associates, they did not join American
Accounting's group plan and lost the benefits' value.

   After a few months, John and Jane were excited to find out that Jane was
pregnant. John and Jane wanted the pregnancy to go perfectly, and quickly sought
to find an Obstetrician/Gynecologist (OB/GYN). They first searched the internet,
but only found general office information. They then asked co-workers, friends,
and acquaintances to suggest a good OB/GYN. After receiving a few names, John
and Jane again searched the internet to compare those doctors. Of the doctors
who accepted Insurance Co., John and Jane decided to go with Dr. Baby because
her office was conveniently located.

   Jane called Dr. Baby's office and scheduled an appointment, but although Jane
was an accountant and known for pinching pennies, she never asked about cost.
Out of curiosity, Jane had once before asked about a doctor's price, but  [*878]
the receptionist responded in vague terms that every patient was different and
did not disclose a price. Since Jane's insurance would pay nearly the entire
bill, Jane figured the price was unimportant.

   Over the next several months, Jane visited Dr. Baby regularly. Dr. Baby
worked with Jane and provided adequate health care. Since Insurance Co. was
paying the bill, Jane was not concerned with the overall costs, and since Jane
was not concerned with costs, Dr. Baby focused almost exclusively on delivering
the best available care. Jane liked Dr. Baby; Jane would refer anyone in need of
an OB/GYN to Dr. Baby.

   While Dr. Baby was not concerned about the cost to Jane, Dr. Baby was
concerned about being adequately reimbursed. Dr. Baby had previously agreed with
Insurance Co. to discount the cost of her services by a specific amount.
However, after applying that discount, Dr. Baby also knew that she would receive
only a fraction of the amount she billed to Insurance Co. Furthermore, Dr. Baby
had recently lost money on another patient who did not have adequate health
insurance. Therefore, to obtain a profit and recuperate losses, Dr. Baby billed
Insurance Co. more for Jane's costs than she expected to receive.

   Insurance Co. was also concerned with operating a viable and profitable
business and sought to reduce the amount paid to Dr. Baby. Insurance Co.
recognized that Dr. Baby's bill was higher than average for the services
provided. Insurance Co. worked relentlessly to lower the amount it was required
to reimburse Dr. Baby. While Insurance Co. successfully reduced the amount owed,
the amount Insurance Co. paid was still higher than average. Insurance Co.
responded to the increased cost by increasing premiums.

   The climbing cost of providing insurance benefits in a struggling economy
caused John's firm to decide to lay off employees. Unfortunately, John was among
those laid off. John found another job at a different firm, Capable Attorneys,
which also provided John with health benefits, but through a different insurance
provider. However, John and Jane's coverage was much less than before, and Dr.
Baby did not accept their new plan. Jane was forced to switch doctors and again
struggled to find a doctor. n85

   In summation, John and Jane received the best available care and were fully
satisfied with Dr. Baby, but were forced to accept a different insurance plan
and select a different doctor. Dr. Baby satisfied a customer enough to receive
future referrals and received enough revenue from Insurance Co. to  [*879]
maintain a profitable business, but ultimately lost a consumer who was happy
with her services. Insurance Co. maintained solvency and profitability, but had
to work relentlessly with Dr. Baby to lower the amount owed, and had to increase
premiums to cover its costs, which ultimately reduced the number of its
consumers. Overall, health care costs continued to increase and the number of
people adequately covered by health insurance continued to decrease.

   III. Better System: Health Care Exchanges

   A. Overview

 A health care exchange ("HCE") is an entity that organizes the health care
market by combining a health insurance exchange ("insurance exchange") with a
similar health provider exchange ("doctor exchange") into an online marketplace.
HCEs would allow consumers to easily search for and compare insurance plans
based on price, quality, consumer reviews, coverage, and participating doctors.
Consumers could also search for and compare doctors based on price, quality,
consumer reviews, accepted insurance plans, geographic area, and specialty.
Furthermore, HCEs would reward consumers for selecting price-effective doctors
and conversely punish the opposite behavior by imposing discounts or surcharges
to consumers' individual insurance premiums. Ultimately, through market forces,
HCEs would drive down health care costs and insurance premiums while increasing
the number of consumers covered by adequate health insurance.

   B. Obtaining Insurance Through an HCE

 To succeed, HCEs must incorporate a successful insurance exchange. n86 An
insurance exchange is an online marketplace that connects consumers, insurance
providers, and other financial contributors (employers, family members,
government programs, etc.). n87 Consumers participating in insurance  [*880]
exchanges would receive all the benefits enjoyed by consumers receiving
employment-based health insurance. In addition to receiving financial assistance
to obtain coverage, consumers would pool their risk together to lower overall
costs through increased bargaining power. n88 Pooling risk could also eliminate
the pre-existing condition barrier for consumers, thereby allowing consumers
with poor histories of health to obtain adequate health insurance. n89
Furthermore, consumers would receive health insurance benefits as tax exempt
compensation. n90

   However, consumers participating in insurance exchanges would not suffer the
disadvantages of employment-based health insurance. First, employers would not
choose the insurance plan in which consumers enroll. Rather, consumers would
compare numerous plans and choose the one that best fits their unique
circumstances. As a result, insurance providers would begin competing for
business based on what consumers demand, and not what employers want. Second,
consumers could keep their insurance plan when changing employment. n91 This
increased portability would largely eliminate the risk of "job-lock" and
consumers would not worry about losing insurance coverage when changing jobs.
Finally, consumer households with two employers who contribute toward health
benefits would not lose compensation value, because the household could combine
contributions from multiple sources to obtain better coverage or withdraw
surplus funds from the insurance exchange as tax-free income. n92

   Employers would continue to assist employees in obtaining adequate health
insurance. However, instead of having the burden of shopping for and selecting
one group plan for the entire company, employers would simply contribute an
established amount, chosen at their discretion, into the insurance exchange,
where employees can choose the plan that is best for them. n93 Employers would
continue to receive the same tax benefits for, and continue to attract employees
through, contributions toward employees' health benefits. n94 Employers would
further benefit from increased predictability in costs. The tax  [*881]
benefits and increased predictability of cost would likely drive smaller
employers to contribute toward employees' health benefits, even if only a
little. n95

   Empowered to choose, consumers could search for and compare insurance plans
that are best for their unique circumstances. Consumers could select insurance
plans based on price, consumer reviews, coverage, and participating doctors. n96
Consumers would also be aided in their search by a value rating attached to each
participating insurance plan. n97 A good value rating would attract consumers,
therefore increasing an insurance provider's sustainability. Insurance
providers, eager to operate a sustainable and profitable business, would compete
to increase their value rating by decreasing price, increasing coverage, or
otherwise improving the value of insurance plans they offer.

   In addition to using value ratings to compare insurance plans, consumers
could contribute to value ratings and provide detailed reviews. Each consumer
could give insurance plans an overall rating that would factor into an insurance
plan's value rating. Because purchasing an item is akin to voting in the
marketplace, n98 an insurance plan's value rating would also increase based on
the total number of consumers electing that particular insurance plan.
Additionally, consumers could also write detailed reviews about their
experiences with insurance plans, both good and bad, that other consumers could
use to gain information.

   Doctors would also affect an insurance plan's value rating. First, an
insurance plan's value rating would increase as more doctors accept that plan.
This would incentivize insurance providers to attract doctors to a plan by
treating doctors fairly. Second, an insurance plan's value rating would include
the average value rating of doctors n99 who accept that plan. This incentivizes
insurance providers to treat doctors with high value ratings better than those
with low value ratings. Thus, insurance providers will avoid non-productive
negotiations with doctors who have high value ratings, and welcome productive
negotiations to lower claims submitted by doctors with low value ratings. If a
doctor with a low value rating drops the insurance plan, the plan is rewarded
with a higher rating; if the same doctor improves her own value rating, the plan
is rewarded and the insurer is incentivized to reward the doctor.

    [*882]  Along with the potential advantages, insurance exchanges also face
potential challenges. One potential challenge is adverse selection. n100 Adverse
selection is an economic term often associated with insurance that describes a
market condition, also known as "death spirals," n101 that occurs when consumers
choose a product "on a basis that increases the cost of providing that product."
n102 All health insurance markets potentially face the risk of adverse
selection, but because insurance exchanges pool consumers' risk together, often
guarantee coverage regardless of health, and may be subject to increased
regulations, insurance exchanges are at a heightened risk of adverse selection
since higher risk consumers are more likely to participate in the insurance
exchange rather than the outside market. n103 Ultimately, if the insurance
exchange provides coverage for more high-risk consumers than the outside market,
the health insurance premiums within the insurance exchange would increase to
cover the added costs associated with these consumers. If premiums in the
outside market are less expensive for healthy consumers, healthy consumers would
leave the insurance exchange, resulting in the insurance exchange becoming more
saturated with higher risk consumers, leading to further increases in premiums.
Further increases in premiums would lead to more consumers leaving the insurance
exchange, and the spiral could continue causing the insurance exchange to fail.

   Previous efforts to provide health insurance in a similar manner show that in
order to avoid adverse selection, insurance exchanges must attract and maintain
the necessary level of participation by health insurance providers, employers,
and consumers, known as "critical mass." n104 While states are just beginning to
create insurance exchanges, in the past states have tried similar programs such
as small group purchasing cooperatives and purchasing alliances.

   In 1992, California created a small-business purchasing cooperative known as
PacAdvantage. n105 Because PacAdvantage attracted 150,000 consumers at its peak,
n106 many considered PacAdvantage successful. n107 However, in 2006, health
insurance provider Blue Shield of California decided against offering insurance
through PacAdvantage because the product was unprofitable; this  [*883]  left
only two health insurance providers in the pool. n108 Offering coverage through
PacAdvantage became unprofitable because employers with lower-risk employees
left the pool to obtain less expensive coverage in the less regulated outside
market. n109 As employers with the lowest-risk employees left, PacAdvantage
raised premiums as high as the law allowed, which drove more employers to leave
the pool. n110 Because PacAdvantage failed to maintain the necessary level of
insurance providers, employers, and consumers, PacAdvantage suffered from
adverse selection and ultimately failed. n111

   In 1994, Texas also attempted to pool small employers into purchasing groups
by forming the Texas Insurance Purchasing Alliance. n112 Initially, the alliance
fulfilled its purpose to provide health insurance coverage for small business at
reduced costs. n113 However, the alliance struggled to attract employers, and
mostly attracted employers with higher-risk employees who faced increased costs
in the outside market. n114 Because the alliance was saturated with higher-risk
groups, health insurance providers increasingly withdrew until ultimately the
alliance failed. n115

   Insurance exchanges within the HCEs can avoid adverse selection by reaching
critical mass. Insurance exchanges can attract insurance providers by offering a
large number of consumers within the insurance exchange. Insurance exchanges can
attract consumers by offering benefits that are not enjoyed in the outside
market. States can ensure that insurance exchanges avoid adverse selection only
if the federal government does not burden states with onerous and unnecessary
restrictions placed on insurance exchanges. While adverse selection is a threat
that must be addressed, states can overcome adverse selection in insurance
exchanges the same way that other insurance plans have consistently overcome
adverse selection: by attracting consumers to participate.

   In summary, insurance exchanges would expand the number of people covered by
adequate health insurance; would empower consumers to choose a health insurance
plan tailored to their needs, keep that plan when changing employment, and
capture lost compensation value; and would reward insurance plans and providers
for increasing value delivered to consumers. Based on these and other benefits,
insurance exchanges can overcome adverse selection and succeed.

[*884]

   C. Selecting a Doctor Through a Doctor Exchange

 While insurance exchanges contribute to the HCEs' success, HCEs must also
incorporate doctor exchanges. n116 A doctor exchange is a website that empowers
consumers to effectively search for and compare doctors by providing consumers
with information to make an informed decision. To assist consumers with this
information, doctor exchanges, like insurance exchanges, would distill this
information into value ratings.

   The first factor of a doctor's value rating would be price. The price used in
the value rating would be the average amount billed per patient. n117 Using the
average amount billed per patient would give consumers a general reference point
to compare doctors even though the cost of each patient varies depending on
medical condition. Also, using the average amount billed versus amount collected
would incentivize doctors to bill insurance companies an amount that is closer
to the doctors' actual expected revenue. As a doctor lowers the amount billed
for health care services, that doctor's value rating would increase.

   However, value does not equate to "cheap," and it is not in consumers' or
society's interest to incentivize doctors to reduce costs without restraint.
Therefore, a doctor's value rating would also include factors to determine
quality, such as consumer reviews, number of patients, number of malpractice
suits, and the standard deviation of amount billed to patients. n118 As the
quality of a doctor's services lowers, that doctor's value rating would
decrease.

   Doctors' value ratings would incentivize doctors to increase value by
decreasing costs and increasing quality. To decrease costs without reducing
quality, doctors would perform a cost-benefit analysis of the services they
provide. Doctors are in the best position to perform a cost-benefit analysis
because they hold the most information and are largely emotionally detached from
health care decisions. n119 Many times, the decision may not concern whether or
not to provide a procedure, but rather the most cost-effective way to provide
that procedure. n120

   A good value rating would reward doctors with increased consumers and
increased sustainability as a business. Doctors, eager to operate a sustainable
and profitable business, would compete to increase their value rating by  [*885]
decreasing price, increasing quality, or otherwise improving the value of health
care services they provide. As noted earlier, a good value rating would also
reward doctors with an improved relationship with insurance providers.

   In summary, doctor exchanges would empower consumers to effectively search
for and compare doctors. The increased transparency and competition would
incentivize doctors to increase the value of the health care services they
provide by reducing costs and increasing quality. As a reward for increased
value, doctors' practices would gain increased sustainability and profitability
and doctors would enjoy an improved relationship with health insurance
providers.

   D. Consumers' Incentive to Focus on Value

 While insurance and doctor exchanges provide the tools for consumers to
effectively select insurance plans and doctors, the HCEs would provide consumers
with a motivating purpose. Without a motivating purpose, consumers would
continue to disregard value altogether; if consumers do not focus on value, the
incentives for insurance providers and doctors would disappear. Therefore, the
HCEs must incentivize consumers to focus on value.

   HCEs would incentivize consumers to focus on value directly and indirectly.
Directly, consumers would get a discount on their individual insurance premium
for selecting a doctor with a high value rating. n121 Conversely, consumers who
select a doctor with a low value rating would be assessed a surcharge. n122
While each member of a group policy would pay the insurance provider the same
premium amount for insurance coverage, the HCE would combine the total
surcharges and distribute the combined amount proportionately as discounts to
those who qualify within each group.

   Indirectly, HCEs would reward consumers for focusing on value by lowering a
group's overall health care costs. If the consumers in a group consistently
selected doctors with high value ratings in greater proportion than doctors with
low value ratings, the group's health care costs would go down. The decrease in
health care costs associated with the group would result in decreased premiums.

   In summary, HCEs' reward system would incentivize consumers to focus on value
by rewarding consumers for doing so. As consumers focus on value, insurance
providers and doctors are incentivized through the HCE to increase the value of
services. As the participants all focus on increased value, health care costs
and insurance premiums decrease.

   E. John and Jane: Hypothetical Illustration of HCEs

 John and Jane moved across the country to begin work at Best, Brightest &
Associates. The firm contributed $ 1000 per month toward an insurance plan
[*886]  on the state's HCE. John and Jane accessed the insurance exchange and
chose a plan from Affordable Insurance (AI) that cost $ 1000 and suited their
circumstances well.

   Jane also found a job at American Accounting. The company contributed $ 500
per month toward an insurance plan on the state's HCE. John and Jane decided to
stay with AI and received the $ 500 per month surplus in their HCE account
tax-free.

   After finding out that Jane was pregnant, John and Jane logged into their HCE
account and searched in the doctor exchange for OB/GYNs in the area who accepted
their insurance plan. Jane, a penny-pincher, was eager to find a doctor with a
high value rating so they could qualify for a discount off their insurance
premium. John wanted a doctor with good customer service and low patient wait
times. John searched through several customer reviews and found a few doctors
that fit their needs. Together, John and Jane agreed to visit Dr. Baby because
she had both a high doctor rating and good customer reviews.

   Over the next several months, Dr. Baby worked with Jane and provided adequate
health care. Jane visited Dr. Baby regularly, but because Jane's pregnancy was
low risk, Dr. Baby saw Jane less than other patients. Dr. Baby performed
ultrasounds and several tests, but, based on Jane's circumstances, reduced the
number of tests she ordered. When the time for delivery came, Dr. Baby suggested
a reputable and cost-effective hospital and delivered the baby. Jane liked Dr.
Baby so she logged into the HCE, awarded Dr. Baby a high consumer rating, and
wrote a detailed and positive review.

   Dr. Baby was concerned about collecting a sufficient amount to operate a
viable and successful business and increasing her value rating to attract more
patients. Dr. Baby billed Jane's insurance company (AI) for the services she
performed. Because Dr. Baby had a high value rating, she knew that it was
beneficial to AI's value rating that she accepted its insurance plan. Dr. Baby
also wanted to maintain her high value rating, so instead of inflating the
amount she billed to AI, Dr. Baby billed AI the amount she expected to receive.
The lower amount billed to AI, together with Jane's positive review, increased
Dr. Baby's value rating.

   AI was also concerned with operating a viable and profitable business.
Because Dr. Baby billed a reasonable amount, AI did not need to reduce the
amount to remain solvent or profitable. AI avoided working relentlessly to lower
the amount owed to Dr. Baby because it would be unproductive and negatively
affect its value rating to do so. Because the amount Dr. Baby billed AI was
reasonable, AI was able to lower premiums to John and Jane's group plan.

   While the costs of health care and insurance benefits decreased, the economy
continued to struggle, and John was laid off. John quickly found another job at
Capable Attorneys. In addition to John's salary, Capable Attorneys provided John
with a defined contribution of $ 500 toward his health benefits on the state's
HCE. While it was less than the $ 1000 he received before, when combined with
the $ 500 contribution from Jane's employer, it was enough to allow John and
Jane to maintain insurance through AI (the insurance of their choice), and Jane
continued to see Dr. Baby (the doctor of her choice).

    [*887]  In summation, John and Jane were empowered to select the health
insurance that best fit their circumstances, were assisted in locating a quality
doctor, were rewarded for selecting a quality doctor, and were enabled to keep
the health insurance and doctor they wanted after changing employment. Dr. Baby
was able to operate a viable and successful business, be rewarded for her
quality and value (by keeping Jane as a client and attracting more consumers
with an improved value rating), and obtain greater leverage over her ability to
collect from the insurance company. The insurance company, AI, was able to lower
premiums while maintaining solvency and profitability, and because it provided
adequate coverage and treated Dr. Baby well it was rewarded with keeping John
and Jane as clients, attracting more consumers, and improving its value rating.

   Under the improved system created through HCEs, health care costs would
decrease and the number of people adequately covered by health insurance would
increase, which would lead to overall improved financial stability.

   IV. The Roles of Federal and State Governments

 Because HCEs would be comprehensive and affect consumers, doctors, and
insurance providers, both federal and state governments must participate in
creating and maintaining HCEs. The federal government should require all states
to establish and maintain an HCE. First, each state's HCE would include an
insurance exchange. Congress should give states wide latitude to establish and
maintain an insurance exchange according to the particular circumstances of each
state. Second, each state's HCE would incorporate the federal doctor exchange
into its HCE. Finally, each state would administer the finances of its HCE,
including but not limited to: collecting contributions, distributing payments
for insurance premiums, and applying discounts and surcharges based on selected
doctors.

   The federal government should ensure that each state acts to solve the
problem of rising health care costs, ensure that each state has the freedom to
act according to that state's particular circumstance, and establish a federal
doctor exchange. The federal government should ensure that each state acts to
solve the problem of rising health care costs by requiring each state to
establish an HCE. To ensure that states have the freedom to act according to the
particular circumstances of each state, the federal government should limit
laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to HCEs to those that are essential to
equity and ultimate success. Finally, the federal government should establish
and maintain a doctor exchange, and require all doctors n123 to participate to
ensure that all states are treated fairly. n124 In establishing the federal
doctor exchange, the federal government should specify the factors, with the
weight associated with each factor, involved in determining doctors' value
ratings. The federal government should also establish rating areas based on the
number of doctors within that area.

[*888]

   V. Conclusion

 The current health care system is broken. There are many opinions on how to fix
the health care system, but none can succeed without using market forces to
lower health care costs. Market forces will only work, however, if the
government fixes the market by realigning the incentives of each participant of
the health care system to lowering health care costs. HCEs properly realign the
participants' incentives to lower health care costs by combining insurance
exchanges with doctor exchanges and incentivizing consumers to focus on value.

   HCEs, through market forces, would drive down health care costs and insurance
premiums while increasing the number of consumers covered by adequate health
insurance. Insurance exchanges would provide consumers with all the benefits of
employment-based insurance, including shared cost, pooled risk, and tax
benefits. Unlike employment-based insurance, consumers in insurance exchanges
would choose their own plans, have increased portability of their plans, and
capture lost compensation value from health benefits. Insurance exchanges would
reward insurance providers that increase value with increased consumers, and
would incentivize insurance providers to treat doctors fairly.

   Doctor exchanges would empower consumers with the tools and information
needed to search for and select doctors based on value. Doctor exchanges
recognize the unique position doctors have in performing a cost-benefit analysis
on health care services, and would reward doctors who decrease costs and
increase value. Doctors who effectively focus on value are rewarded with
increased consumers and improved relationships with insurance providers.

   Finally, the HCEs' reward system incentivizes consumers to focus on value by
rewarding consumers who do so. Consumers who select doctors with high value
ratings receive discounts on their individual insurance premiums, while those
selecting doctors with low value ratings pay a surcharge. As consumers in a
group select doctors who have high value ratings, the group's insurance premium
will decrease.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsurancePreexisting ConditionsHealthcare
LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersReimbursementGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Lydia Saad, Americans Rate National and Personal Healthcare Differently,
Gallup (Dec. 4, 2008),
http://www.gallup.com/poll/112813/americans-rate-national-personal-healthcare-di
fferently.aspx.





n2.  Cong. Budget Office, Rising Health Care Costs: Causes, Implications, and
Strategies 1-5 (1991), available at
http://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/76xx/doc7665/91-CBO-001.pdf; see also Price
Waterhouse Coopers, The Factors Fueling Rising Healthcare Costs 2 (2002),
available at http://www.ahipresearch.org/pdfs/PwCFinalReport.pdf.





n3.  Carmen DeNavas-Walt et al., U.S. Census Bureau, P60-238, Income, Poverty,
and Health Insurance Coverage in the United States: 2009, at 22 (2010).





n4.  Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Pub. L. No. 111-148, 124 Stat.
119 (2010).





n5.  See, e.g., Florida ex rel Bondi v. U.S. Dep't of Health & Human Servs., 780
F.Supp.2d 1256 (N.D. Fla.), aff'd in part and rev'd in part by Florida ex rel
Att'y Gen. v. U.S. Dep't of Health & Human Servs., 648 F.3d 1235 (11th Cir.
2011). Certiorari to the Supreme Court of the United States was granted in this
case on November 14, 2011. U.S. Dep't of Health & Human Servs. v. Florida, 132
S. Ct. 604 (2011).





n6.  N.C. Aizenman, House GOP Begins Drive to Defund Health-Care Overhaul, Wash.
Post, Feb. 18, 2011, at A02.





n7.  Albert R. Hunt, Vow to Repeal Health Care Holds Little Promise, N.Y. Times,
Nov. 21, 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/22/us/22iht-letter.html (noting
"House Republicans' 'Pledge to America' vowed 'to repeal and replace the
government takeover of health care'").





n8.  President Barack Obama, Remarks by the President in State of the Union
Address (Jan. 5, 2011) (transcript available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2011/01/25/remarks-president-state-un
ion-address) ("Now, I have heard rumors that a few of you still have concerns
about our new health care law... . So let me be the first to say that anything
can be improved... . We can start right now by correcting a flaw in the
legislation ... .").





n9.  The idea of a health provider exchange is a new concept. Similar to a
health insurance exchange, a health provider exchange would bring market
participants together to assist consumers in selecting a doctor.





n10.  See John F. Cogan, R. Glenn Hubbard & Daniel P. Kessler, Making Markets
Work: Five Steps to a Better Health Care System, 24 Health Aff. 1447, 1453
(2005). See generally Thomas Bodenheimer, The Political Divide in Health Care: A
Liberal Perspective, 24 Health Aff. 1426, 1443 (2005). Insurance exchanges
alone, while helpful, are unlikely to fix the health care system because they
only address the cost of insurance premiums. To truly fix the health care
system, policy makers need to address the cost of health care services as well
and the cost of insurance premiums. Insurance exchanges put downward pressure on
the cost of insurance premiums through increased competition; however, the
rising cost of health care services put upward pressure on the cost of insurance
premiums. Therefore, to truly fix the health care system, policy makers need to
put downward pressure on both the costs of insurance premiums and the cost of
health care services.





n11.  See Sarah Nightingale, Obama's Health Care Reform Plan Targets Eight
Goals, Lubbock Avalanche-J., Aug. 23, 2009, available at
http://lubbockonline.com/stories/082309/loc 485065725.shtml; Statement of
Purpose, The Heritage Found., http://www.heritage. org/Initiatives/Health-Care
(last visited Mar. 16, 2012).





n12.  See generally Bodenheimer, supra note 10; Cogan, Hubbard & Kessler, supra
note 10.





n13.  See Bodenheimer, supra note 10, at 1427 ("In the health care arena, many
liberals feel that governments ... are the only social institutions that can
implement the balance between the needs of each individual and those of all
individuals - that is, the community.").





n14.  Id. at 1434.





n15.  See id. at 1428 ("Conservatives ... promote a laissez-faire economy with
minimal government intervention."); Cogan, Hubbard & Kessler, supra note 10, at
1447.





n16.  See Cogan, Hubbard & Kessler, supra note 10, at 1448 (noting that
government policy "has contributed to the spread of wasteful (inefficient)
medical practice, rising health care costs, and rising rates of uninsurance").





n17.  See Connie Marshner, Health Insurance Reform: What Families Should Know,
The Heritage Found. (December 13, 2007),
http://www.heritage.org/research/HealthCare/wm1739. cfm.





n18.  See Cristina Olson, Note, Desperate Doctors and Antitrust Laws: The Best
Ways for Lawmakers to Simulate Physician Collective Bargaining, 10 Nev. L.J.
811, 813-14 (2010).





n19.  Victoria Colliver, Disagreement About Reasons for Rising Costs, S.F.
Chron., Mar. 19, 2011, at A1.





n20.  See generally Brief for the American Hosp. Ass'n et al. as Amici Curiae in
Support of Petitioners with Respect to the Individual Mandate, Dep't of Health &
Human Servs. v. Florida, No. 11-398, 2012 WL 16232 (Jan. 13, 2012).





n21.  Robert J. Blendon et al., The Beliefs And Values Shaping Today's Health
Reform Debate, 13 Health Aff. 274, 284 (1994).





n22.  Report of the Health Insurance Commission of the State of Illinois 15-17
(1919).





n23.  David U. Himmelstein et al., Medical Bankruptcy in the United States,
2007: Results of a National Study, 122 Am. J. Med. 741, 743 (2009) (stating that
"illness or medical bills contributed to 62.1 [percent] of all bankruptcies in
2007").





n24.  See Cong. Budget Office, supra note 2, at 1-5.





n25.  Id.





n26.  Id.





n27.  See DeNavas-Walt et al., supra note 3, at 22, 24.





n28.  See generally Jason D. Fodeman & Robert A. Book, "Bending the Curve": What
Really Drives Health Care Spending, Backgrounder, Feb. 17, 2010, available at
www.heritage. org/Research/HealthCare/bg2369.cfm; Heidi Ellen Kluber, Rising
Healthcare Costs in the United States: Contributing Factors and Potential
Solutions (Dec. 1, 2008), available at http://ecommons.txstate.edu/honorprog/88
(unpublished honors thesis, Texas State University).





n29.  DeNavas-Walt et al., supra note 3, at 24.





n30.  Catherine Hoffman et al., Holes in the Health Insurance System - Who Lacks
Coverage and Why, 32 J.L. Med. & Ethics 390, 391 (2004).





n31.  Id.





N32.  William S. Custer et al., Why We Should Keep the Employment-Based Health
Insurance System, 18 Health Aff. 115, 116-18 (1999).





n33.  Id.





n34.  Id. at 116-17.





n35.  Mark Pauly et al., Individual Versus Job-Based Health Insurance: Weighing
the Pros and Cons, 18 Health Aff. 28, 29 (1999) ("We consider a number of
criticisms of the current system, focusing on one: the fact that employers
choose one or a limited set of health insurance options to offer employees ...
so that employees do not have the same ability (or responsibility) to choose ...
.").





n36.  See id.





n37.  David Leonhardt, How Insurers Do, and Don't, Compete, N.Y. Times (Aug. 25,
2009, 9:00 PM),
http://economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/08/25/how-insurers-do-and-dont-compete/.





n38.  Alan C. Monheit & Philip F. Cooper, Health Insurance and Job Mobility:
Theory and Evidence, 48 Indus. & Lab. Rel. Rev. 68, 68 (1994) ("The
nonportability of employment-related health insurance has been recognized as an
important shortcoming of the prevailing system of private health insurance in
the United States.").





n39.  Id.





n40.  See U.S. Gen. Accounting Office, Employer-Based Health Insurance: High
Costs, Wide Variation Threaten System 4 (1992) ("The growth in health care costs
represents a substitution of employee health benefits for cash wages.").





n41.  See DeNavas-Walt et al., supra note 3, at 22 ("The percentage of people
without health insurance increased to 16.7 percent ... [and t]he number of
uninsured people increased to 50.7 million in 2009 ... .").





n42.  Hoffman et al., supra note 30, at 392 ("Families are hard-pressed to find
and pay for a policy in the individual insurance market.").





n43.  Id.





n44.  Id.





n45.  Id.





n46.  Id. While PPACA makes it illegal for insurance providers to deny coverage
based on pre-existing conditions after 2014, the general cost of health
insurance will increase as the increased risk is spread across the market. This
increase in cost will make it harder for people to obtain adequate health
insurance in the individual market.





n47.  While the government provided health insurance for a record high number of
people in 2009, the overall number of people with adequate health insurance has
still decreased. DeNavas-Walt et al., supra note 3, at 24 ("The percentage and
number of people covered by Medicaid is the highest since 1987."). 1987 was the
"first year that comparable health insurance data were collected." Id. at 23-24.





n48.  See Hoffman et al., supra note 30, at 392-94.





n49.  See Julie Connelly, More Doctors Are Opting Out of Medicare, N.Y. Times,
Apr. 2, 2009, at F9.





n50.  Id. See Cathy Schoen et al., How Many Are Underinsured? Trends Among U.S.
Adults, 2003 and 2007, 27 Health Aff. w298, w298 (2008) ("As health care costs
continue to rise ..., efforts to moderate premium increases have led to a shift
... ." (emphasis added)).





n51.  Schoen et al., supra note 50. Employers, worried about their own solvency
and profitability, react to increased premiums by shifting the increased cost of
health insurance onto employees, reducing the number of employees who receive
benefits, reducing salaries, or laying off employees. U.S. Gen. Accounting
Office, supra note 40, at 10-12. This shifting of costs led to 25 million people
between the ages of 19-24 being underinsured by 2007. Schoen et al., supra note
50.





n52.  See Mark A. Hall & Carl E. Schneider, Patients as Consumers: Courts,
Contracts, and the New Medical Marketplace, 106 Mich. L. Rev. 643, 648 (2008)
("Insurers (public and private) negotiate prices for much of the care many
patients receive.").





n53.  See Ira Burney et al., Medicare Physician Payment, Participation, and
Reform, 3 Health Aff. 5, 9-11 (1984).





n54.  Jack Hadley, How Should Medicare Pay Physicians?, 62 Milbank Memorial Fund
Q.: Health & Soc'y 279, 279 (1984).





n55.  See Karen Davis & Stuart Guterman, Rewarding Excellence and Efficiency in
Medicare Payments, 85 Milbank Q. 449, 451 (2007) ("Such a system of payment
rewards those hospitals and physicians that efficiently produce those units of
care ... because they can pocket any difference between the fixed price they are
paid for each unit and the amount it costs them to produce it.").





n56.  Beverly Cohen, The Controversy Over Hospital Charges to the Uninsured - No
Villains, No Heroes, 51 Vill. L. Rev. 95, 110-11 (2006). See generally Allen
Dobson et al., The Cost-Shift Payment "Hydraulic": Foundation, History, and
Implications, 25 Health Aff. 22 (2006); Jean M. Mitchell et al., Physicians'
Responses to Medicare Fee Schedule Reductions, 38 Med. Care 1029 (2000).





n57.  Cortney Kuntze, Comment, Insured Versus Uninsured: The Fight for Equal
Pricing in Health Care, 29 J. Legal Med. 537, 538 (2008).





n58.  Hall & Schneider, supra note 52, at 648.





n59.  Kuntze, supra note 57, at 539.





n60.  See James W. Marks, Prompt Pay Statutes for Physicians' Billing Claims: An
Imperfect Remedy for a Systemic Problem, 20 J. Med. Prac. Mgmt. 135, 135 (2004).





n61.  Families USA, Paying a Premium: The Added Cost of Care for the Uninsured
15 (2005), available at http://www.familiesusa.org/assets/pdfs/Paying a Premium
rev July 13731e.pdf.





n62.  See id.





n63.  Id.





n64.  Id. at 13-14.





n65.  Id. at 15.





n66.  A variety of organizations offer resources for consumers to research
products and services. See, e.g., Consumers Union,
http://www.consumerreports.org/cro/aboutus/history/printable/index.htm.





n67.  See Howard F. Stein, The Money Taboo in American Medicine, Med.
Anthropology, Fall 1983, at 1, 11.





n68.  Id. (emphasis omitted).





n69.  For a classic study of the difficulties associated with consumer
comparisons of physician quality, see Jay L. Lebow, Consumer Assessments of the
Quality of Medical Care, 12 Med. Care 328 (1974).





n70.  See generally Cong. Budget Office, supra note 2, at 7-10, 21, 26-27.





n71.  Hall & Schneider, supra note 52, at 653-54.





n72.  Id. at 657.





n73.  Id. at 658.





n74.  Id. at 653-54; see also Paul J. Feldstein, Health Care Economics 253-54
(5th ed. 1999).





n75.  Blue Cross of Blue-ray: Nearly Half of Adults Spend More Time Researching
Latest Gadget Than Their Doctor, PR Newswire, Jan. 13, 2011, available at
http://www.prnews
wire.com/news-releases/blue-cross-or-blu-ray-nearly-half-of-adults-spend-more-ti
me-researching-latest-gadget-than-their-doctor-113448289.html.





n76.  See Feldstein, supra note 74, at 251, 253-54 (discussing factors that may
influence a patient's choice and how patients have information about
physicians).





n77.  This would include those covered by employment-based health insurance and
government insurance programs because consumers often pay little to be covered.
55.8 percent of people were covered by employment-based health insurance in
2009, whereas 30.6 percent were covered under a government program. DeNavas-Walt
et al., supra note 3, at 22, 24.





n78.  Consumers arguably have an indirect incentive to lower health care costs.
As health care costs increase, insurance premiums and the number of uninsured
and underinsured consumers follow. However, this inflationary cycle is so subtle
and far removed from the individual consumer that they respond only after they
become powerless to do so.





n79.  In addition to having no direct incentive to lower costs, consumers may
also disregard costs because they feel powerless to do so. Consumers may feel
powerless because they often have few choices regarding the insurance plan they
have or the doctors they can see. Feeling powerless to affect prices, consumers
may simply ignore it altogether.





n80.  See generally Fodeman & Book, supra note 28.





n81.  See infra Part II.A.ii.





n82.  See Manoj Jain, Equal Treatment for the Uninsured? Don't Count on It.,
Wash. Post, Oct. 14, 2008, at HE05, available at
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/10/10/AR2008101002679.
html.





n83.  However, these consumers only make up a minority of the marketplace. See
DeNavas-Walt et al., supra note 3, at 22 ("The percentage of people without
health insurance increased to 16.7 percent ... [and t]he number of uninsured
people increased to 50.7 million in 2009 ... .").





n84.  See Jain, supra note 82.





n85.  This hypothetical could be continued to illustrate the inflationary cycle
associated with underinsured consumers:

   As health care costs increased generally, Health Insurance Co. increased the
premium charged to customers, including Best, Brightest & Associates, to
maintain solvency and profitability. The firm, also concerned with maintaining a
viable and profitable business, decided it needed to reduce operating costs. It
was committed to providing health benefits as a competitive advantage over other
firms, so to reduce costs the firm decided to lay off one percent of its
attorneys. Having been with the firm only a year, John was among the one percent
laid off. Luckily, Jane continued to work, and John and Jane joined AA's group
plan and enrolled in Insurance For All, Inc. While John and Jane were still
covered, they were underinsured. Their new plan had a $ 15,000 family deductible
and their income had been greatly reduced. After an unrelated accident, John and
Jane were faced with $ 20,000 in medical bills. This cost, added to lost wages
and mounting debt, forced John and Jane into bankruptcy. The doctors would
recover the $ 20,000 they lost by increasing costs.





n86.  Currently, Massachusetts and Utah have insurance exchanges, known as
Commonwealth Connector and Utah Health Exchange, respectively. See Mass. Gen.
Laws Ann. ch. 176Q, § 1 (West 2010); Utah Code Ann. § 63M-1-2504 (West 2010).
While both insurance exchanges have similarities, they can also be seen as the
two extremes of potential insurance exchanges. Trip Jennings, NM Considers
Models for Health Insurance Exchange, N.M. Indep. (June 4, 2010, 9:37 AM),
http://newmexicoindependent.com/56303/group-considers-models-for-nms-
health-insurance-exchange. Massachusetts has regulatory powers, whereas Utah is
more market-oriented; Massachusetts relies on an individual mandate, whereas
Utah attempts to grow by attracting consumers with benefits; Massachusetts
limits participation of insurance companies and attempts to control plan
benefits, whereas Utah wants all insurance companies to participate and only
sets minimum standards for plan benefits. See Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 176Q, § 1;
Utah Code Ann. § 63M-1-2504. While either insurance exchange would work as part
of HCEs and each state should adopt an insurance exchange appropriate for that
state, this Note will follow many elements of Utah's exchange because it is more
market-oriented, and more likely to drive down costs through market forces.





n87.  Timothy Stoltzfus Jost, Health Insurance Exchanges: Legal Issues, 37 J.L.
Med. & Ethics 51, 53 (2009) ("Health insurance exchanges are entities that
organize the market for health insurance, much like stock exchanges do for
securities or farmers' markets for produce."); Jennings, supra note 86 ("The
Utah plan ... allows workers to pool contributions from several sources - an
employer, government assistance or perhaps money from a spouse's contribution
from their employer - to have enough to buy a basic plan ... .").





n88.  Timothy Stoltzfus Jost, The Commonwealth Fund, Health Insurance Exchanges
and the Affordable Care Act: Key Policy Issues 2 (2010).





n89.  See id.





n90.  Robert E. Moffit, The Rationale for a Statewide Health Insurance Exchange,
Web Memo, Oct. 5, 2006, at 2, available at
www.heritage.org/research/healthcare/wm1230.cfm.





n91.  Employees could keep their plan as long as both employers participated in
the insurance exchange.





n92.  To ensure that employers and employees do not attempt to circumvent income
tax requirements, insurance exchanges should have a maximum contribution
allowed.





n93.  Moffit, supra note 90, at 2.





n94.  See Lois M. Collins, Utah Health Exchange Growing as More Small Businesses
Sign On, Deseret News (May 30, 2011),
http://www.deseretnews.com/article/700140212/Utah-Health-Exchange-growing-as-mor
e-small-businesses-sign-on.html; Defined Contribution Frequently Asked
Questions, Utah Health Exchange,
http://www.exchange.utah.gov/learn-more/defined-contribution-faqs (last visited
Mar. 16, 2012); see also Why Use the Utah Health Exchange?, Tax Free Premiums
Compliance Blog (March 15, 2011), http://www.taxfreepremiums.com/blog/?p=230.





n95.  Employers' contributions would remain tax exempt. Furthermore, if an
employer contributes nothing toward an employee's health benefits, but elects
the insurance exchange as the company's group plan, the employer can receive tax
benefits for any income employees apply toward their premium.





n96.  Employers would choose a default plan on the HCE for those consumers
unwilling or without desire to select a plan.





n97.  The insurance value rating would factor in the following: consumer
reviews, number of consumers in the plan, number of participating doctors,
average doctor rating of participating doctors, number of successful bad faith
claims, and any other numeric factor that could represent quality.





n98.  This is often called "dollar-voting," where individuals determine the most
desirable products by selecting those products to purchase. See Peter Lindsay,
Exposing the Invisible Hand: The Roots of Laissez-Faire's Hidden Influence, 37
Polity 295, 297 (2005).





n99.  See infra Part III.A.ii. Similar to an insurance plan's value rating, a
doctor's value rating reflects the overall quality of a doctor, including price
charged and value delivered for health care services.





n100.  Timothy Stoltzfus Jost, The Commonwealth Fund, Health Insurance
Exchanges: Eight Difficult Issues 8 (2010) ("The greatest threat facing
exchanges is adverse selection."); Sarah Lueck, CTR on Budget and Policy
Priorities, States Should Structure Insurance Exchanges to Minimize Adverse
Selection 1 (Adverse selection "could prevent the [insurance] exchanges from
operating effectively.").





n101.  Id. at 3.





n102.  Richard A. Ippolito, Economics for Lawyers 299 (2005). When consumers
purchase health insurance based on prior health problems or increased risk of
future health problems, the cost of providing health insurance increases. See
id. Health insurance providers created exceptions to coverage for pre-existing
conditions so consumers could not simply wait until they were sick to purchase
health insurance to protect against adverse selection. See id.





n103.  See generally Jost, supra note 100; Lueck, supra note 100.





n104.  See generally Leuck, supra note 100.





n105.  David Dranove, Code Red: An Economist Explains How to Revive The
Healthcare System Without Destroying It 182 (2008).





n106.  Lueck, supra note 100, at 2.





n107.  See Elliot K. Wicks, The Commonwealth Fund, Health Insurance Purchasing
Cooperatives 3 (2002).





n108.  Dranove, supra note 105, at 182-83.





n109.  Id.





n110.  Id.





n111.  Id.; Lueck, supra note 100, at 2.





n112.  Wicks, supra note 107, at 3.





n113.  Cappy McGarr, Op-ed., A Texas-Sized Health Care Failure, N.Y. Times, Oct.
6, 2009, at A31.





n114.  Id.





n115.  Id. (The Texas Insurance Purchasing Alliance "never attained a large
enough market share to exert significant clout in the Texas insurance market.");
Wicks, supra note 107, at 3 ("The Texas Insurance Purchasing Alliance ...
covered only about 1,000 firms and 13,000 people at its height."). Nearly
identical stories can be told about efforts in Florida, North Carolina, and
Colorado. Id.





n116.  Doctor exchanges would only involve non-emergency doctors. Emergency
doctors would be excluded because a consumer's choice is drastically altered in
emergency situations; e.g., society should not expect a father to coldly perform
a cost-benefit analysis when faced with the potential loss of his child.





n117.  Doctors would also include the cost of any services performed by a third
party that the doctor referred the patient to receive (e.g., labs, x-rays,
diagnostic tests, etc.).





n118.  The standard deviation would ensure that doctors treat patients with
varying degrees of need; patients with low costs, high costs, and those in
between. The greater the standard deviation, then the higher the doctor's value
rating would be.





n119.  See Hall & Schneider, supra note 52, at 650-53 (explaining why patients
feel powerless to shop for health care services).





n120.  A great example would be a surgery. If the surgery requires a surgical
device, the doctor could reduce the surgery's cost by comparing devices and
using the least costly alternative. If, on the other hand, a surgical device was
"nice" but ultimately too expensive and unnecessary, some doctors would forego
using the device to increase their value rating and competitive advantage. This
would lead other doctors to follow suit as their value rating would be adversely
affected.





n121.  Some might also argue that those in the group that made not choices,
i.e., never incurred costs from doctors' services, should get a discount, others
would argue that might increase the amount of people foregoing adequate care.
That debate will be left for others to determine.





n122.  Both the discount and surcharge would be proportionate to the deviation
from the average doctor rating. In other words, the higher the rating, the
bigger the discount; the lower the rating, the bigger the surcharge.





n123.  Doctor exchanges would only involve non-emergency doctors.





n124.  Without doing doctor exchange on the federal level, some states may be
tempted to loosen requirements for doctors in doctor exchange, thereby enticing
doctors to move from states with stricter requirements.


                              409 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             August 21, 2015 Friday

Teachers ask for better pay in Dist. 158 Pay: School board members did not
comment at meeting Pay: School board members did not comment at meeting

BYLINE: By Madhu Krishnamurthy mkrishnamurthy@dailyherald.com By Madhu
Krishnamurthy mkrishnamurthy@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words


Several Huntley Community School District 158 teachers asked for higher, more
competitive pay and help with health insurance costs during Thursday night's
school board meeting.

The district and its teachers union are in mediation over a new teachers
contract. The current contract expired June 30.

Nearly 200 teachers attended, showing support for the union's demands. A few
teachers cited salaries not keeping pace with rising health insurance costs as
the main reason why many teachers were leaving for neighboring districts.

"We should not have to make a choice between providing the basic necessities for
our families, and health care," said James Hotchkiss, an eighth-grade teacher at
Heineman Middle School who has been with the district 20 years. "We are not
asking for free health care, we are asking for fair, equitable distribution of
the cost so that we can provide for our families."

The current teachers contract called for yearly step increases of 3.5 percent
for each of the three years of the contract; teachers off the salary schedule
received a 2

percent yearly increase.

However, that 2 percent increase isn't nearly enough to cover the cost of health
insurance premium increases, said Janice Riley, a special-education teacher at
Marlowe Middle School and a 14-year district employee.

"I am the primary wage earner for my family and we rely on my health insurance
benefits," Riley said. "The board's proposed budget would increase my dental
payments by 9 percent, my life insurance by 12.45 percent, and my medical
insurance by 19.3 percent. That is a total increase of almost $2,000 per year.
With the insurance increases the board is proposing, I would need a 2.9 percent
salary increase just to break even, after factoring in TRS (Teacher Retirement
System) and taxes."

Several teachers asked district officials to share the burden and consider
paying a greater percentage toward teachers' health insurance premium costs
rather than a flat fee as the district does now.

"Our neighbors, District 300, pay 70 percent of the employee's family health
insurance," Riley said. "Batavia and U-46 both pay 90 percent of the cost of
family health insurance for their teachers. I'm sorry to say that District 158
pays only 53 percent of family health insurance. So our surrounding districts
not only have significantly higher median salaries, and pay much more into the
Teacher Retirement System, they also have much better insurance rates."

School board members did not comment at the meeting.

Trustee Michael Fleck, school board vice president and chief negotiator, said
earlier the board is open to increasing the base salary to be more competitive,
but with state education funding up in the air, the district needs to be
conservative with what financial incentives it can offer.

The next mediation session is scheduled for Wednesday, Aug. 26, coinciding with
the first day of classes.

"We are so hopeful that it will get resolved in the next few weeks," said Cindy
Rick, spokeswoman for the Huntley Education Association, which represents
roughly 700 teachers.

Teachers went on strike for two days in 2008, and were poised to go on strike
again during contentious contract negotiations in 2012.

Class size is among the issues being negotiated this time.

"Some of the class sizes of core classes are up to 35 students and that's at the
high school," Rick said. "There are some math classes at the elementary schools
where there are not enough desks. There's just not enough places to even put the
students. That's a big issue and concern."

Rick said the district's special education teachers are being overburdened and
overworked. "The caseload that these teachers have is huge," she added.

See Pay on Page 4

Several Huntley Community School District 158 teachers asked for higher, more
competitive pay and help with health insurance costs during Thursday night's
school board meeting.

The district and its teachers union are in mediation over a new teachers
contract. The current contract expired June 30.

Nearly 200 teachers attended, showing support for the union's demands. A few
teachers cited salaries not keeping pace with rising health insurance costs as
the main reason why many teachers were leaving for neighboring districts.

"We should not have to make a choice between providing the basic necessities for
our families, and health care," said James Hotchkiss, an eighth-grade teacher at
Heineman Middle School who has been with the district 20 years. "We are not
asking for free health care, we are asking for fair, equitable distribution of
the cost so that we can provide for our families."

The current teachers contract called for yearly step increases of 3.5 percent
for each of the three years of the contract; teachers off the salary schedule
received a 2

percent yearly increase.

However, that 2 percent increase isn't nearly enough to cover the cost of health
insurance premium increases, said Janice Riley, a special-education teacher at
Marlowe Middle School and a 14-year district employee.

"I am the primary wage earner for my family and we rely on my health insurance
benefits," Riley said. "The board's proposed budget would increase my dental
payments by 9 percent, my life insurance by 12.45 percent, and my medical
insurance by 19.3 percent. That is a total increase of almost $2,000 per year.
With the insurance increases the board is proposing, I would need a 2.9 percent
salary increase just to break even, after factoring in TRS (Teacher Retirement
System) and taxes."

Several teachers asked district officials to share the burden and consider
paying a greater percentage toward teachers' health insurance premium costs
rather than a flat fee as the district does now.

"Our neighbors, District 300, pay 70 percent of the employee's family health
insurance," Riley said. "Batavia and U-46 both pay 90 percent of the cost of
family health insurance for their teachers. I'm sorry to say that District 158
pays only 53 percent of family health insurance. So our surrounding districts
not only have significantly higher median salaries, and pay much more into the
Teacher Retirement System, they also have much better insurance rates."

School board members did not comment at the meeting.

Trustee Michael Fleck, school board vice president and chief negotiator, said
earlier the board is open to increasing the base salary to be more competitive,
but with state education funding up in the air, the district needs to be
conservative with what financial incentives it can offer.

The next mediation session is scheduled for Wednesday, Aug. 26, coinciding with
the first day of classes.

"We are so hopeful that it will get resolved in the next few weeks," said Cindy
Rick, spokeswoman for the Huntley Education Association, which represents
roughly 700 teachers.

Teachers went on strike for two days in 2008, and were poised to go on strike
again during contentious contract negotiations in 2012.

Class size is among the issues being negotiated this time.

"Some of the class sizes of core classes are up to 35 students and that's at the
high school," Rick said. "There are some math classes at the elementary schools
where there are not enough desks. There's just not enough places to even put the
students. That's a big issue and concern."

Rick said the district's special education teachers are being overburdened and
overworked.

"The caseload that these teachers have is huge," she added.

Continued from Page 1

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              410 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

County looks at how it insures workers

BYLINE: By James Fuller jfuller@dailyherald.com By James Fuller
jfuller@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 647 words


Kane County might decide to self-insure its 1,250 employees to avoid health
insurance cost increases partially related to the Affordable Care Act. But the
numbers show it'd be cheapest for taxpayers if the county dropped any insurance
coverage for employees.

County board members reviewed a plan Tuesday afternoon that showed $1.7 million
could have been saved if the county began self-insuring its employees five years
ago.

"That is a lot of money," said county board Chairman Chris Lauzen in an
interview. "It protects us from hurting people with their property taxes."

Lauzen said he is leaning toward an exploration of the self-insurance option
because of the expected ability to save tax dollars. Going forward, part of the
potential savings comes from self-insuring to avoid taxes and fees related to
the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare.

The county's health insurance brokers told county board members they are looking
at a 9.2 percent increase in premium costs in 2014 if the county continues its
insurance plan through Blue Cross Blue Shield.

That's a $1.3 million impact on the budget and would push the county's
taxpayer-funded employee health care costs to about $15.5 million in 2014.

The majority of the $1.3 million increase, about $796,000, is related to overall
health care inflation. The remaining increase, about $512,000, stems from
Affordable Care Act taxes and fees.

Health insurance cost increases related to Obamacare are not new to the county,
but 2014 will mark the largest impact yet. The costs are related to mandated
expansions in coverage for dependents up to age 26, women's preventive care
services, elimination of lifetime maximums and wellness visits.

In 2011, the county's health insurance costs rose 1 percent because of new
Obamacare fees. In 2012 and 2013, costs rose 0.5 percent.

But in 2014, the impact is a 3.6 percent increase. That's because several new
fees come onto the books in 2014.

The big fee for the county is the health insurer fee. That new annual fee is
designed to pay for the implementation of health care reform. The fee will rise
with the growth in premiums, but it is expected to be about 2.5 percent of total
premiums in 2014.

Insurers, like Blue Cross Blue Shield, are expected to pass that fee through to
employers, like the county.

The other new fee with a notable impact on the county in 2014 is the
transitional reinsurance fee. That new fee will last for three years and fund
the state-based insurance exchanges where individuals can find coverage.

The fee begins at $63 per insured member in 2014. The county has about 1,150
members using the insurance it offers.

Lauzen said the county board will take a hard look at the self-insurance option
in October as it finalizes the budget for 2014. Pressure to save on insurance
may become more of a factor as union contract negotiations conclude.

Money for employee raises has not yet been included in any version of the
county's 2014 budget. Lauzen has committed to keeping the county's portion of
the local property tax bill flat.

"I'm just looking at will we save money," Lauzen said. "We've got these great
benefits that few folks can enjoy. Those are important, but we also have to live
within the expectations of the property tax levy, that freeze."

If push comes to shove on that expectation, the county's insurance brokers
showed the cheapest insurance option for the county is to simply not offer
insurance coverage through the county and push all county employees into the new
insurance exchanges.

Not offering insurance would trigger a federal penalty of $2.4 million for the
county. Paying that penalty instead of funding an insurance plan for employees
would save about $13.1 million.

Lauzen said he recognizes the county's insurance plan is important to the
county's employees and a major draw that keeps workers from taking
private-sector jobs.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              411 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 16, 1989, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Business and Health;
A Plan to Tax Some Benefits

BYLINE: By Glenn Kramon

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 856 words


ALAIN C. ENTHOVEN, a professor of management at the Stanford Graduate School of
Business, thinks he has a solution for two of the biggest problems in American
health care -the sharply rising cost and the 37 million or so people with no
health insurance. But several things stand in the way: organized labor, most
employers, the insurance industry, a vast majority in Congress and many of the
150 million Americans with employer-sponsored health insurance.

Professor Enthoven is proposing that the favorable tax treatment afforded
employee health benefits be limited. He will argue his case next week at the
annual meeting of the Association of Private Pension and Welfare Plans in
Washington.

Currently, everything an employer spends to buy a worker's health insurance is
not taxed. Professor Enthoven proposes that only a certain amount -say
four-fifths of the $200 monthly cost of a family plan and the $100 cost for an
individual - be tax- free, and that the rest be taxed as income to the employee.

He also proposes that employers guarantee only a certain dollar amount to pay
for employee health insurance, not a certain level of benefits, as most
employers do now. In other words, under a change in the law, the employer could
guarantee only, say, $160 a month to buy whatever medical, vision and dental
coverage is available at that price, rather than assuring that the employee
receive a certain level of coverage no matter what the price. The amount could
be adjusted for actuarial factors and regional costs.

The proposal would generate about $11 billion in tax revenue that could
subsidize the health insurance of the many people who have none, Professor
Enthoven says. And it could make Americans more cost-conscious when choosing
health insurance, because employees who choose more costly plans would have to
pay the extra costs with their own after-tax dollars. As a result, he says, more
employees would choose less expensive health plans like health maintenance
organizations. That in turn would encourage the creation of cost-effective
providers and help contain medical costs.

Currently, the economist argues, American health insurance is biased in favor of
higher-income people with good health coverage. He explains this with an
example.

Stanford University, as an employer, contributes $160 a month toward the health
insurance of an employee with a family. It offers a number of health plans,
including a conventional Blue Shield plan and the Kaiser H.M.O. The Blue Shield
plan costs $350 a month for an employee with family, and Kaiser only $270. An
employee choosing Blue Shield must therefore pay $190 extra, against $110 for
Kaiser.

But the extra money comes out of pretax income. For an employee in the 40
percent tax bracket, that means the Government is subsidizing $32 of the $80
extra cost of the Blue Shield plan; the higher the tax bracket, the greater the
subsidy.

''Why should scarce tax dollars subsidize an insured upper-income person's
choice of a more costly health plan while we have millions of people who have no
health insurance?'' he asked. Stanford guarantees only a certain dollar
contribution, Professor Enthoven said. ''When a Stanford employee chooses a more
costly health plan, at least he has to pay 60 percent of the extra cost,'' he
said. ''But where the employer pays all, the employee is left completely
unconscious of cost.''

The professor said that permitting employers to offer health insurance free of
income and payroll taxes will cost the Federal budget about $46 billion in 1990.
By limiting the tax preference, he said, $11 billion could be generated.

He would combine that revenue with $7 billion to be raised by requiring
employers to provide health insurance for all full-time employees and to pay a
payroll tax on those not covered. The $18 billion could go a long way to
providing health insurance for the uninsured.

But Professor Enthoven faces much opposition. ''To help someone else, he wants
to push us back,'' said Robert M. McGlotten, a director of legislation at the
A.F.L.-C.I.O., who will debate the professor next week. ''You shouldn't penalize
people for having good health-care programs.''

The United States Chamber of Commerce and other business groups have also
opposed such a proposal. ''The tax preference has resulted in the expansion of
the employee benefits system,'' said Karen B. Brigham, a chamber manager.

The insurance industry opposes the plan in part because it might lead some
healthier workers to drop their coverage, worsening the risk pool.

As for members of Congress, a Metropolitan Life survey of 101 of them found that
only 14 percent favored limiting the health-benefits tax preference. And an
Office of Management and Budget spokesman said the Bush Administration was not
considering any health-benefit tax proposals.

But Senator David Durenberger, a Minnesota Republican who supports the Enthoven
concept, said things could change. ''With the pressure building for universal
coverage and for employers to do something about the cost of health care,'' he
said, ''I expect there will be a growing consensus for it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              412 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Post-Star (Glens Falls, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday

Schools pool funds, but still see upheaval with insurance costs

BYLINE: Omar Ricardo Aquije, The Post-Star, Glens Falls, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1726 words


April 15--Discussing the cost of health insurance lately at some schools has
caused astonishment and frustration.

The reason? School districts pay millions for health insurance each year, but
the cost is going up another 12 percent in 2012-13.

That's another expense on the rise, on top of the increasing cost of pensions
and salaries. As revenue continues to decrease for districts, insolvency could
become inevitable.

School officials are frustrated. Health insurance costs are rising beyond the
rate of inflation and the expense is hard to control.

Finding cheaper alternatives is difficult, which leaves school districts in the
position of cutting programs, laying off staff and raising school taxes to pay
for increases in the budget.

Taxpayers who attended budget meetings were flabbergasted at the cost of health
insurance, and some have expressed scorn over the amount school employees pay
for those benefits.

In Glens Falls, the district expects to pay at least $5 million for health
insurance in 2012-13. The proposed budget is $38.9 million.

This year, family coverage through a Matrix Indemnity Plan -- the most expensive
plan at the district -- costs $21,828. There are roughly 53 employees and 10
retirees on this plan, while most are on a cheaper plan -- the Preferred
Provider Option, which costs $18,300 in 2011-12.

Employees contribute between 13 and 20 percent.

At Queensbury, the district's $53.3 million budget includes $8.5 million for
health insurance for fewer than 500 employees. Lake George, with a budget of
$20.5 million, plans to spend nearly $4.3 million for coverage.

"It's absolutely crazy," said James Clark, a Glens Falls school board member, on
the amount of money the district is spending on health insurance.

Clark expressed his view at a March 29 budget meeting, at which residents in the
audience also shared their frustration.

Now, during a period of fiscal trouble, districts want employees to contribute
more for health insurance. It's a tough task, and has caused some negotiations
to stall or reach an impasse.

Some districts have succeeded, but the increases in employee contributions have
been marginal when compared to other public jobs or private-sector employees.

Last year, the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a think tank, put out a
report on the cost of health insurance, which showed public employees
contributed an average of 15 percent, compared to about 25 percent in the
private sector.

During budget meetings at Glens Falls and Lake George in March, taxpayers asked
if their district could find cheaper options for health benefits.

Officials said they are getting the best deal available. Even if a cheaper
alternative was found, they said, switching would be difficult for various
reasons.

Still, residents have demanded change, saying districts are paying too much.

"Somebody is making a lot of money on these (health insurance) premiums," said
David Klein, a Lake George resident, during a March 27 Lake George school budget
meeting.

Pooling their money

Thirty local school districts, including the area BOCES, form an alliance to buy
health insurance.

The consortium was created in the 1980s, and has grown over the years. South
Glens Falls joined this year.

The group has thousands of individual members, including employees and retirees.
As a group, the consortium has more buying power than a single school district,
officials say.

If one person needs medical services that are more expensive than usual, the
consortium foots the bill, softening the cost for that employee's school
district.

"I think we are receiving the best price that we could possibly receive for our
health insurance by going through the consortium," said Douglas Huntley,
superintendent at Queensbury. "I've had experience where districts have
self-funded, and that's not a good situation for school districts to be in today
because the potential liability is great when you are self-funded. Having the
larger numbers helps spread the share of claims."

Consortiums like this one exist across the state, although some school districts
do obtain health insurance on their own.

Of the 31 local school districts, only Hudson Falls and the Abraham Wing School
in Glens Falls are not in the local consortium.

Hudson Falls is part of the Capital Area Schools Health Insurance Consortium,
which has 13 districts including Cohoes, Guilderland and South Colonie.

A school district must have at least 50 participants to join a health insurance
consortium, which is why Abraham Wing, a k-6 district with only 200 students,
has to buy its own insurance.

At Abraham Wing, a company is hired to research health insurance plans, then the
school board picks the best option, a process it performs each year.

Judy Hemingway, the treasurer at Abraham Wing, said the district had wanted to
join the local consortium because the rates were better.

But in recent years, the consortium's rates have increased and are now similar
to what Abraham Wing pays, she said.

"For us, it has worked out very well," Hemingway said.

How consortium works

The consortium is called the Washington-Saratoga-Warren-Hamilton-Essex Counties
Health Insurance Consortium Trust, and it's a nonprofit organization.

The superintendent at each district in the consortium is a trustee. An executive
committee decides whether to seek changes such as new health insurance plans or
increases to the cost for districts, and recommends them to the trustees.

The executive committee is made up of school business officials, BOCES leaders,
one school board member from one of the member districts and one representative
from the New York State United Teachers. The trustees select the committee
members.

The trustees and executive committee meet monthly to discuss issues and meet
with a representative from Green Mountain Associates, a consulting firm.

The consultants also try to secure better rates by negotiating with Empire Blue
Cross and Blue Shield, the health insurance provider for the consortium.

Once the rate is determined, the executive committee decides how much the
districts need to pay.

When districts budget for health insurance, the money goes into a trust fund
that the trustees oversee. Using the fund requires a vote from the trustees.

This year, the fund is projected to have $105 million, said Timothy Place,
chairman of the executive committee and the assistant superintendent for
administrative services at the local BOCES.

When it's time to pay Empire, the consortium writes the check using money from
the trust fund.

Money is also used from the trust fund to pay the consultant, an auditor and
attorney, Place said.

The trust fund was created in 2006, so Empire could bill the consortium instead
of each district.

Around that same time, the districts were using up to 40 different health plans.
By 2010, it was narrowed to two.

Over a five-year span, starting in 2007-08, districts paid an average of 3
percent extra a year for health insurance.

While the cost for claims was higher, the trust fund used a surplus to reduce
the increases for the last two years.

Empire charges a rate based on claims for medical services. The more claims, the
higher the rates. The rates are increasing, partly because districts have been
laying off younger employees, leaving an older work force that is more likely to
seek medical services.

Earlier this year, Empire wanted to raise the 2012-13 rate by nearly 16 percent,
which was negotiated down to below 12 percent, said Jack Macica, of
Schuylerville, who is the school board representative on the executive
committee.

But this time, the surplus was not enough to cover most of the increase.
Trustees voted for a 12 percent increase, which includes money to replenish the
surplus.

Place said the surplus needs to be built up to avoid a greater year-to-year
increase in the future.

As a result, the districts are paying an amount in line with the cost of their
claims.

"Now it's coming back to bite us a little bit," Macica said of using the
surplus.

Cheaper options

The consortium is now offering two new cheaper options for health insurance: a
second PPO and a health reimbursement account.

But districts cannot force their employees to use a certain plan. Unions have to
agree to any changes in health benefits.

In recent years, districts have asked unions to leave the expensive Matrix plan
in favor of the original PPO plan.

Some labor contracts specify that Empire must be the health insurance provider.

Officials say there are few vendors that can match the plans offered by Empire.
But the consortium is still exploring what it would take to obtain health
insurance from another company.

"It may need contract changes," Place said.

At recent budget meetings in Glens Falls and Lake George, some taxpayers
suggested their districts leave the consortium.

Paul Jenkins, superintendent at Glens Falls, said some school leaders have
talked about leaving the consortium and forming a group of three or four
districts, and buying health insurance from another company. But their research
has shown that staying in the consortium saved more money.

"I'm finding it as frustrating as everyone else is," Jenkins said during a March
29 budget meeting.

"There are superintendents who want to change. It is very frustrating. There has
to be something out there that's better than what we are getting now."

Even if cheaper health benefit plans were found, the unions have to agree to the
change, officials say.

"Even if I were to say, 'We are going to go out and find our own,' I have to
make sure all five unions agree to the plans we are looking at," said Jenkins.

Macica, in his fourth year on the executive committee, said his "gut feeling" is
the consortium may not hold together unless cheaper coverage is found and labor
contracts are revised.

While districts save money over the long term by staying in the consortium, some
may leave if they can save money through another company, even if it's for a
year or two, Macica said.

"I really don't know how schools can sustain it," Macica said of the increasing
cost of health insurance. "Everybody is cutting to the bone. We have cut
absolutely everything we can without hurting kids. The next cuts will hurt the
kids. We are cutting programs just to pay for employee benefits."

___ (c)2012 The Post Star (Glens Falls, N.Y.) Visit The Post Star (Glens Falls,
N.Y.) at www.poststar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120415-GN-Schools-pool-funds-but-still-see-upheaval-with-insurance-
costs-20120415

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GN


                          Copyright 2012 The Post-Star


                              413 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        York Daily Record (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday

BRIEF: York to study health insurance cost: Five Pennsylvania cities are
considering a consolidated plan.

BYLINE: Emily Opilo, York Daily Record, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 274 words


May 20--York City Council approved a grant application Wednesday night to fund a
feasibility study of consolidating health insurance with four other Pennsylvania
cities.

City business administrator Michael O'Rourke said he has been working with
representatives from Bethlehem, Easton, Lancaster and Reading for several months
to discuss means to cut costs.

Easton will apply for a grant from the state Department of Community and
Economic Development that would fund a benefits consultant to help the cities
weigh insurance plans and assess costs. York will provide up to $5,000 to match
that grant.

O'Rourke said health insurance is the second largest expense in the city's
budget. All five cities currently contract with Capital BlueCross for insurance,
he said.

The study should be completed by the end of the year, O'Rourke said.

In other news: A survey for York employees about the city's residency
requirement has been completed and will be available on the city's internal
website in a few days, O'Rourke said.

City council asked that the survey be conducted as part of an ongoing debate
about the residency ordinance.

City administrators must decide if employees will be limited to one survey each
or have unlimited access, O'Rourke said.

To see more of the York Daily Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.ydr.com. Copyright (c) 2010, York Daily Record, Pa. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100520-YO-BRF-York-to-study-health-insurance-cost-0520

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YO


                        Copyright 2010 York Daily Record


                              414 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 28, 1992, Monday, City Edition
                              Correction Appended

The Price of Protection

BYLINE: KIM NORRIS

SECTION: BUSINESS; CENTERPIECE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1975 words



Dani Collett doesn't get regular health checkups or go to the doctor when she
has a cold or the flu. In fact, she says she doesn't seek medical attention
unless she's "near death," and then she goes to the emergency room of the
nearest hospital.

It's not the most practical - or the cheapest - approach to health care,  but
Collett, 36, doesn't have a choice. She has no health insurance.

A single mother of four, Collett has a full-time job at Pete's Pier in  Crystal
River. But health insurance is not a benefit offered there.

Her employers say they would like to provide health insurance for their  seven
employees, but the costs are prohibitive.

"We have looked at it, and it's way too expensive," says Nancy Elliott,  who
shares ownership of the marina with her sisters, Judy Clark and Susan  Sexsmith.
"We'd like to offer it," says Clark.

They're not alone. Many small-business owners throughout the Tampa Bay area  and
the nation say that as much as they'd like to provide health coverage to  their
workers, they simply can't afford it. And employers who do provide it  worry
constantly about rising rates and whether they will be able to continue
offering it.

It's a legitimate concern. Health care costs have spiraled in the past 15  years
and more than doubled since 1980. In 1990, health care expenses  accounted for
12.2 percent of the gross domestic product. By the turn of the  century, the
government is expected to spend more on health care  (predominantly Medicare and
Medicaid) than on education, defense and  recreation combined, according to the
Government Accounting Office, which  estimates that the government will spend $
1.5-trillion on health care in 2000.

While the government is grappling with alarming health-care costs, many  people
already have lost the battle. Some 35-million Americans - 2.5-million  of whom
live in Florida - do not have health insurance.

A task force on private-sector health-care responsibility estimated that  75
percent of those 2.5-million uninsured Floridians either work for a small
business or are dependents of a small-business employee. Nevertheless, Florida
employers paid about 60 percent of the $ 30-billion spent on health care in
this state in 1991.

Businesses'

responsibility?

The out-of-control costs and increasing numbers of uninsured people have  sent
government scrambling for solutions. Many of the proposed fixes look to  the
business community to provide the solutions.

President Bush and his Democratic challenger, Bill Clinton, are both  advancing
proposals. Clinton looks more to the business community for help  than Bush
does. (See story, Page 15.)

In Florida, Gov. Lawton Chiles' Florida Health Plan calls for businesses to
start providing health insurance to their employees voluntarily over the next
26 months or face being forced to do it in 1995.

The Florida plan, enacted by the Legislature earlier this year, guarantees
access to health insurance - although it doesn't necessarily make it
affordable.

Under the law, once an insurance carrier agrees to cover one small  business, it
cannot refuse to cover another. Insurers cannot exclude  individuals within a
group from coverage, and the coverage stays with the  worker even if he or she
leaves the company.

At the same time, the state is lifting the 18 specialized health benefits  (such
as podiatry, chiropractic and massage therapy) that businesses have been
required to offer if they offer anything at all. The new system makes it
possible for businesses to choose from a menu of benefits, depending on what
premium rates they want. (Many large companies are self-insured and are exempt
from state insurance laws.)

Another state law, which took effect last year, says insurance companies  can
raise premiums each year no more than 15 percent above the rate of medical
inflation. It doesn't restrict the rates insurers can charge initially.

Herb Clark, chief of staff of the state Department of Insurance, estimated
that, under the plan, premiums for coverage through health maintenance
organizations would cost about $ 75 a month per employee, while premiums for
standard indemnity plans would be around $ 90 a month.

That may still be too much for many businesses.

"We (the business community) told them we wanted a $ 50-a-month policy,"  says
Jodi Chase, general counsel for Associated Industries of Florida, a  bipartisan
business lobbying group.

Many small businesses maintain that any additional mandated expenses, aside
from being distasteful, may be ruinous.

"That's a heck of a burden to be saddling the small-business community  with,"
says Lanny Sumpter, owner of three McDonald's restaurants in Tampa.  "I think
it's going to put some folks out of business."

Sumpter provides health insurance for employees in his management program  but
doesn't for the bulk of his 125 workers because it's too expensive. He
estimated that a decent policy would run about $ 100 a month.

"It would do a number on me (if forced to provide insurance)," he says.  "At a
minimum, I would have to figure out how to get by with a lot less  employees.
Clearly, something would have to give."

Even at $ 75 per employee, "you're still talking about people being laid  off,"
Sumpter says.

Other small-business employers say the same thing. More mandates will mean  more
expensive products, layoffs, fewer hirings and loss of livelihoods.

"Small businesses are flexible and adjust faster than bigger companies,"  says
Alan Sayler, owner of Sayler WaterCare Service in St. Petersburg. "If  you put
pressure somewhere, they will bend and stretch somewhere else."

Since small businesses create 90 percent of the new jobs, they are often  viewed
as the engine that will drive the economy out of the recession.  Small-business
owners say that is not going to happen if they have to pick up  yet another
mandated expense.

"Very few (applicants) ask about health insurance," says Roger Goode,  owner of
two Fat Boys Bar-B-Q restaurants in Citrus County. "Most of them  take the job
because they need it."

For her part, Dani Collett wasn't too concerned about whether the marina  job
came with health insurance. "I didn't ask about health insurance. My  primary
needs were a paycheck so we wouldn't be living on the street," she  says.

No. 1 concern

The cost of health insurance ranked as the No. 1 problem confronting the
nation's small-business owners, according to a survey last year by the  National
Federation of Independent Businesses. No other problem approached
health-insurance costs in severity. The problem spanned all industries and all
sizes and shapes of small businesses.

"Not only is the cost of health insurance currently small-business owners'
greatest concern, but it is likely to remain so in the coming years," the
federation said.

"It's by far my biggest expense," says Eddie Mills, owner of  Mills-Anderson
Opticians Inc. in St. Petersburg. Mills pays about $ 250 per  employee each
month for health insurance for his six workers. He recently  raised the
deductible from $ 200 per year to $ 500 to keep costs in line.

"When I look at the bills, I say, "My gosh, what have I done?' but I just  can't
stop (providing it)," Mills says. "My heart won't let me do it.

"I think it's the responsibility of business to provide reasonable health
insurance coverage that is affordable to the business," he says. "But there  are
some businesses that just can't afford it."

Fat Boys is one of those businesses. Goode says that in order to provide  health
insurance for the 76 employees in his two restaurants, he would have to  raise
his prices "so high we would put ourselves out of business.

"I'd love to help my employees, but I can't. I can hardly afford my own  health
insurance," says Goode, who pays $ 382 a month for family coverage.

About four years ago, Goode tried to provide health insurance, but the high
turnover of his business made it impractical, both financially and
administratively.

"I would pay (the premium) every month, and then you're supposed to take  it out
of their paycheck each week, but they'd be gone the next day - even  though I
already paid for the month," he says.

Pete's Pier owner Clark says that the high turnover in her business makes
offering health care difficult. "It's hard to provide health insurance when  you
can't trust employees to be here. A year or so ago, we went through 35
employees," Clark says.

But businesses that do offer health insurance say such a benefit cuts down  on
turnover and inspires loyalty in employees. It is also a valuable tool when  it
comes to hiring quality workers.

"I need to offer it to compete with big competitors," says Sayler, whose
WaterCare Service employs three full-time workers. Sayler pays a portion of  his
workers' coverage until they've been there three years; then he picks up  the
full cost. Two of his employees have been with him more than 10 years.  However,
his most senior employee, Hal Lev, has diabetes - a pre-existing  condition that
insurers won't cover.

"So what good is mandated coverage when here's an employer willing to pay  and
can't get coverage for his employee?" Sayler asks. The Florida Health  Plan and
both presidential candidates' proposals would prohibit insurers from  refusing
to cover people with pre-existing conditions.

In the meantime, Sayler applies the money he would pay for Lev's premium to  his
paycheck.

"I'm in the service business, and I have to have good people out there  doing a
good job," he says.

Dave Anderson, owner of Bob Lee's Tire Co. in St. Petersburg, agrees that
offering benefits such as health insurance inspires loyalty from workers, but
he wonders if the payoff is still worth the outlay.

"You have to balance (the cost of health insurance) against the cost of
constant turnover," Anderson says. "But it's getting tougher to balance. The
pendulum is swinging the other way."



Rising costs for small business

Most small business owners who offer health care were hit with cost increases
in 1991. Nevertheless, health insurance is one of the three most commonly
offered employee benefits, along with paid vacation and sick leave. A survey
conducted in March by Arthur Andersen's Enterprise Group and National Small
Business United, a private, nonprofit advocacy group representing more than
60,000 U.S. small business owners, also found:

Health care costs rose last year for 83 percent of small business owners  who
offered health insurance to their employees in the 12 months preceding the
survey.

One-third of small business owners who provide health insurance experienced
cost increases of more than 25 percent.

Health care coverage is offered by 97 percent of companies with 101 to 500
employees; 90 percent of companies with 21 to 100 employees; and 47 percent of
companies with 20 or fewer employees.

Small business owners, on average, pay 60 percent of their employees'  premiums
for health insurance.

IN FLORIDA

An estimated 2.5-million residents do not have health insurance.

Some 75 percent of those without insurance work for small businesses or are
dependents of small business employees.

Health care cost rose by 234 percent between 1980 and 1990. By 2000,  Floridians
will pay more than $ 90-billion for health care - triple the 1990  bill.

NATIONALLY

The average policy for all policyholders costs more than $ 300 per month for  a
family and $ 180 per month for an individual.

Small employers pay as much as 20 percent more than large employers for the
same coverage.

Sources: Times research, National Federation of Independent Business
Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 1992, Tuesday, City Edition

CORRECTION:

Bob Lee is the owner of Bob Lee's Tire Co. in St. Petersburg. Dave Anderson
manages finances for the company. A story in Monday Business on small
businesses and health insurance, misidentified Anderson.

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Steve Hasel, (2); COLOR PHOTO, Maurice Rivenbark; COLOR
PHOTO, Dan McDuffie; COLOR PHOTO, Kathleen Cabble; COLOR PHOTO, (2); COLOR
DRAWING, Earl Towery; Dani Collett working at Pete's Pier in Crystal River (ran
pg. 1); Judy Clark's business offers no coverage for Roger Langlois; John Purdy
changes a truck tire at Bob Lee Tires in St. Petersburg (ran pg. 3); McDonald's
franchise owner Lanny Sumpter says he can afford to insure only the employees in
his management program; Alan Sayler and his most senior employee, Hal Lev; Eddie
Mills; Dave Anderson; Drawing showing business people and a hot air balloon

                            Times Publishing Company


                              415 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 2, 1991, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

TO REDUCE HEALTH-CARE SPENDING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 356 words


Two dreadful warnings about U.S. health-care policies were sounded recently
inWashington. The first came from the Bush administration's budget director,
Richard G. Darman, who says health spending for Medicaid and Medicare will
outstrip the outlays for Social Security by 2000 and will consume 37 percent of
the gross national product by 2030.  Meanwhile, the U.S. Comptroller General,
Charles A. Bowsher, has suggested that Congress keep health costs in check by
setting limits on public and private spending for major areas of health care.
Medicare is the federal health insurance program for the elderly and disabled.
Medicaid is the federal-state health insurance program for the needy.  While Mr.
Bowsher didn't call for a national health insurance system, he did note that the
United States could learn much from nations that have imposed such systems, in
cluding Canada and Germany. Americans are understandably reluctant to abandon a
health-insurance system that offers them wide choices in care. But there's no
getting around the fact that the system also provides little or no care for an
estimated 37 million uninsured Americans.  Compare the U.S. approach to that of
Germany and Canada, both of which have been able to control costs, yet guarantee
health insurance for all their citizens, through national health insurance
programs. In spite of leaving so many millions without health insurance, U.S.
health-care spending came to an average of $2,051 a person in 1987, compared to
$1,483 in Canada and $1, 093 in Germany. There is no way to arrest the spiraling
cost of physician services, hospital care and high-tech medicine short of
placing reasonable lids on health-care spending. The administration has squeezed
about all the fat it can out of Medicare and Medicaid. The fact that health-care
costs will continue to rise in spite of cuts in Medicaid and Medicare should be
sufficient to convince Washington that enough time has been devoted to tinkering
with piecemeal reforms. Nothing short of a national health insurance program
will hold down costs and guarantee basic health insurance for all Americans.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              416 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Health premiums outstrip pay hikes

BYLINE: By Michael D. Sorkin ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 654 words


MIDDLE-CLASS PINCH Employees' costs also have risen at twice the rate of
employers', according to a study. But many remain ineligible for subsidized
care, yet can't afford quality private health coverage.

---

With a combined income of $70,000, Annie and Doug Shulte have no credit card or
home phone. They pay cash, use cell phones to save on phone bills and live in a
modest house in St. Peters.

Both have health insurance through their respective employers, although his
deductible is so high, he would use his insurance card only in an emergency.

What they don't have on their ever-tightening budget is health insurance for
their 13-year-old son, A.J.

The Shultes are the middle-class poor: They earn too much to qualify for any
kind of government-assisted health aid, and too little to afford the quality
health insurance they want and need.

And they are not alone. On Wednesday, a study by Families USA, a national
consumer health group, found that health insurance premiums for a typical
Missouri family cost more than $10,000 this year.

That cost is shared by the employer, which pays $8,007, compared with the
family's cost this year of $2,857.

But the cost increase for workers has gone up at twice the rate as for
employers. In six years, the cost for employers shot up 50.6 percent. In the
same period, the workers' share skyrocketed by more than 102 percent.

Those costs are for insurance premiums. Not counted in the study are co-pays,
deductibles and other out-of-pocket expenses.

The study found that, for family health coverage provided through the workplace,
annual insurance premiums rose to $10,864 in 2006 from $6,731 in 2000 -- an
increase of 61.4 percent.

In the same period, the median earnings of Missouri's workers increased to
$26,387 from $22,201-- or 18.9 percent.

That means health care premiums rose 3.3 times faster than earnings for Missouri
families, according to the study. Families USA is a nonpartisan, nonprofit
advocate for universal health care. Its study is reported to be the first to
compare the increase in insurance costs with income by state.

Illinois is not one of the 16 states studied, but the group says insurance
premiums for Illinois families increased 68.4 percent, compared with an earnings
increase of 13.5 percent. Insurance premiums for Illinois families increased
about 5.1 times faster than earnings.

Nationally, health care premiums increased 73.8 percent in six years, while
wages rose just 11.6 percent, the study found.

The report is not critical of employers, "but they are passing on a bigger share
of the burden on to working families," Ron Pollack, the executive director of
Families USA, told reporters.

Dr. James R. Kimmey said the study showed why some 700,000 Missourians lacked
health coverage -- including many whose employers offer it. He is president and
CEO of the Missouri Foundation for Health, a $1.24 billion foundation that
focuses on the uninsured and the underinsured.

Louise Probst praised the study and said it showed that employers continued to
shoulder 75 to 80 percent of the cost of health insurance.

Probst is executive director of the St. Louis Area Business Health Coalition,
which represents big businesses. She said that the cost of health care increased
the cost of every product and that "the effect on our economy is huge."

Probst said an income of $70,000 sounded well-off to many workers. But by the
time all the bills are paid, many people in that income bracket cannot afford
health insurance.

As for Annie Shulte, she works an extra 15 hours a week hoping that next year
the family can afford health insurance for her son.

Her employer takes $52.45 a month out of her paychecks to insure her. That would
jump to $367 to add her son, and $716 to also add her husband.

For now, she hopes her son remains healthy: "It's a game of roulette that we are
playing."

---

STLtoday.com/links Link to the full report by Families USA on health insurance
premiums.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 GRAPHIC - Coverage cost increase 2000 - 2006 POST-DISPATCH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Pink Sheet

                      August 14, 2017 Monday 10:27 AM GMT

Korea's Reimbursement Steps Spark Drug Price Cut Concerns

LENGTH: 634  words


The South Korean government will beef up its national health insurance coverage
ratio in a bid to sharply lower medical costs for the nation and protect
low-income households from catastrophically high medical expenses.

The Ministry of Health and Welfare aims to raise the health insurance coverage
ratio to 70% of all medical costs by 2022 and eventually to 80% in the
longer-term, from an early 60% level at present, as the country hopes to hike
the ratio to the levels of major countries.

The latest measure is the first major health care step released under the new
Minister of Health and Welfare Park Neung-hoo who took charge in July. It has
raised concerns in the industry of potentially sharp drug price cuts as the
government indicated it will also come up with measures to reduce fiscal
spending.

Difficult TO Launch Across-The-Board Cut?

South Korean analysts, however, noted that the government is unlikely to conduct
a large-scale drug price cut in the near term as there haven't been any
meaningful discussions around this recently. Besides, Korean drug prices are
relatively lower than prices in major countries.

The country's drug prices have been steadily falling due to post-launch
management, so it will be difficult for the government to launch an
across-the-board drug price cut as it did in 2012.

As South Korea's health insurance benefits increase, the country's prescription
drug market could grow, leading to revenue increase for the pharma industry, the
analysts noted.

The government has decided to release the latest measure as the portion of
health care costs covered by national health insurance has remained at around
62%-63% in the past 10 years despite continued efforts to raise health insurance
benefits.

"South Korea has high proportion of non-reimbursement so the people are faced
with sharply higher medical cost burden compared to the people in advanced
countries," said the ministry in a statement.

Among OECD member countries, South Korea had the second highest household
medical payment ratio of 36.8% in 2014, after 40.8% in Mexico. This was 1.9
times higher than the average ratio of 19.6% for OECD countries.

More Drugs Eligible For Reimbursement

The latest measure seeks to completely reimburse medical costs, excluding the
costs for beauty and cosmetic surgeries. However, in case of drugs with
relatively low therapeutic effects versus cost, the government will apply a
"preliminary reimbursement" system which will entail different reimbursement
ratios for individuals.

This also means more drugs will be eligible for reimbursement. The government
will maintain the country's positive list system, in principle, to reimburse
drugs that have superior efficacy versus price, but will also actively seek to
reimburse non-reimbursed drugs in stages.

The government will flexibly ease the medical cost burden of patients for use of
medicines that weren't reimbursed due to ambiguous therapeutic effects versus
high drug prices.

It will initially expand reimbursement scope of the drugs that are reimbursed
for limited applications, including indications and administration times.

For pricey novel drugs for serious diseases, the government will seek to
reimburse them after preparing measures that can prevent weakening of price
negotiations.

To implement the plan, the government expects to spend a total of KRW30.6tn
($26.7bn) from the latter half of this year to 2022, using accumulated reserves
and state support for health insurance. Along with this, it will also need to
raise health insurance premiums to a certain level, but it plans to minimize the
nation's burden by maintaining the increase rate at the average hike rate of
3.2% in the past 10 years.

From the editors of PharmAsia News.

By Jung Won Shin

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PS


                             Copyright 2017 Informa
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

STATE HOLDS DOWN COSTS FOR HEALTH INSURANCE

BYLINE: By Anita Weier The Capital Times

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 359 words


State employees, retirees and dependents will continue to enjoy low-cost health
insurance benefits, thanks to a combination of innovation and use of a reserve
fund to help reduce increases.

The state Group Health Insurance Board today approved a health insurance program
cost increase of 7.4 percent, most of which is paid by the state.

Thanks to union negotiations, state employees in most health plans in 2007 will
face a $5 increase in monthly premiums for individual coverage or a $13 increase
for family coverage. Non-union employees face the same costs.

Overall, costs to the state have been held down because of the use of a tiered
insurance plan system that rewards employees and health maintenance
organizations that cut costs, officials said.

Prescription drug plans, which were placed under the management of Navitus on a
self-insured basis in 2004, also helped cut costs.

Overall, rates paid by the state and insureds in 2007 will be equal to the 2006
rates. They would have risen 4 percent, however, without a transfer from a net
fund balance.

In all, about $10.5 million will be taken from the net fund balance, leaving
$85.8 million available in net pharmacy and medical funds.

Marty Beil, head of the largest state employee union, said he was pleased that
"Tier 1" insurance plans became available for those in more northwestern
Wisconsin counties than in the past. "There is some closing up of gaps that
people will be happy about," Beil said.

Tom Korpady, administrator of the Division of Insurance for the State Employee
Trust Funds, said the single-digit increases in costs to the state were good
news.

"Most employers are facing double-digit increases," he said.

Karen Timberlake, who heads the state Office of Employee Relations said, "This
is the third year in a row we will have low- to mid-single digits."

About 195,000 state employees, retirees and dependents are covered by the state
insurance, and another 30,000 people are covered through a similar plan
available to local governments, including the city of Madison. Individual
premium rates for local employees are set through separate bargaining
negotiations.

E-mail: aweier@madison.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 28, 2010 Friday

VHI to be privatised in shake-up of health insurance

BYLINE: MARTIN WALL, DEAGLÁN de BRÉADÚN and EITHNE DONNELLAN

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 617 words


THE GOVERNMENT is to invest up to EUR 300 million in the VHI and place the
State-owned private health insurance company on the market.

The measures form key elements of new reforms to the health insurance market
announced yesterday by Taoiseach Brian Cowen and Minister for Health Mary
Harney.

The Government said its measures were aimed at securing the future of community
rating where everyone pays the same for identical products regardless of age.

Ms Harney said the reforms would not increase premium costs for the Republic s
two million private health insurance subscribers.

She said that, as a result of the Government s action,  older and sicker people
would pay less than they would otherwise have paid because, if we didn t make
these decisions, there s no doubt that the market would have segmented .

Obviously health costs are rising but we also believe the emphasis on primary
care should help to reduce the cost of health insurance,  she said.

The VHI has also been told by the Government to open up its travel insurance
operation to non-members and to put in place controls on its claims costs.

Under the Government s plans, health insurance companies will have to cover GP
services and measures such as health screening as part of minimum benefits
offered to subscribers.

There will also be new penalties to encourage people to take out health
insurance earlier rather than later in life. The Government has also signalled
that it will consider measures to achieve a greater balance of older customers
between the various companies in the market.

At present, VHI has 94 per cent of all subscribers over 80 in the market and
nearly 90 per cent of those over 70.

However the Government said its new proposals would not necessarily mean the
break-up of the VHI.

The State investment in the VHI is required to bring its reserves up to the
level needed for authorisation by the Financial Regulator.

Ms Harney said that on its own to increase the VHI s reserves from the current
20 per cent of premium income to 40 per cent would involve an investment of EUR
338 million.

However, the Government believes this figure could fall substantially if the
company avails of reinsurance services   essentially where an insurer seeks
insurance against some of the risk.  We want to establish the capacity of the
VHI to get some of that money from reinsurance and what the Financial Regulator
will require.  She said there was also  a new solvency directive  coming from
the EU.

Ms Harney also stated that the Government expected to recover its investment
all of that and more    from the sale of the VHI.

Until now, VHI, unlike its rivals in the market, has been exempt from regulation
by the Financial Regulator. However, the Government said it would introduce a
level playing pitch for all firms.

A new  robust  risk equalisation scheme is to be introduced which will involve
cash transfers between companies with younger membership profiles to those with
predominantly older subscribers.

A previous risk equalisation scheme was struck down by the Supreme Court in July
2008.

The sale of the VHI is expected to take place in 2012 or 2013.

Ms Harney indicated the Government would give  serious consideration  to
providing staff with a share in the company.

Explaining the reason for privatising the VHI, she said:  The fact that the
Government is the owner of the VHI and requires its competitors to transfer
resources to the Government s company means that we don t have an even playing
field.

Fine Gael said the proposals would not address the high price of insurance
premiums, while Labour said the taxpayer was going to be asked to pump as yet
unquantifiable sums of money into VHI to fatten it up for privatisation.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday

Health insurance societies struggling

BYLINE: Hiroshi Ishizaki and Takashi Koyama, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writers,
Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words


Many health insurance societies are in financial straits following the
introduction in April of a new medical insurance scheme for the elderly.

Following the introduction of the new system, the amount health insurance
associations and related organizations will be asked to bear to cover medical
expenses for the elderly this fiscal year is expected to climb by about 560
billion yen from the previous fiscal year, with medical costs for those aged 65
to 74 cited as the main reason for the increase.

The increased burden on health insurance societies has already forced some to
dissolve.

"Considering our financial situation, we concluded there would be no advantage
in maintaining our health insurance society," said an official of Seino Holdings
Co., in Ogaki, Gifu Prefecture, a major distribution firm that managed Seino
Transportation Health Insurance Society, which was forced to disband earlier
this month due to burdens imposed by the new system.

About 57,000 people who had been covered by the Seino insurance program,
including employees of 31 group companies and their dependents, are now enrolled
in the health insurance program administered by the Social Insurance Agency for
employees of small and midsize companies.

Few large health insurance societies have been dissolved. But the introduction
of the new medical insurance system for the elderly has seen many health
insurance societies experience financial strains similar to those faced by the
Seino insurance program.

According to a projection made in April by the National Federation of Health
Insurance Societies on the financial situation of about 1,500 health insurance
societies across the country, about 90 percent are expected to report losses in
fiscal 2008, up from 70 percent in the previous fiscal year.

The combined amount of losses is expected to surge to a record 632.2 billion
yen, up 392.4 billion yen from the previous fiscal year--a situation described
by a federation official as a crisis.

To cope with the situation, 141 health insurance societies plan to raise their
premium rates.

Currently, premiums of health insurance societies stand at an average of 7.39
percent. If societies are forced to set their premium rates above 8.2 percent,
the rate adopted by the SIA-managed health insurance, many could find it
impossible to stay in business.

Health insurance societies have long faced financial difficulties. But the
additional payments they have been asked to bear to cover medical expenses for
those aged 65 to 74 under the new system has worsened the situation.

According to a survey by the Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry, health
insurance schemes for corporate employees, which are managed by health insurance
societies, the SIA-run health insurance scheme and mutual aid associations, will
be asked to provide an additional 567.4 billion yen for medical services for the
elderly this fiscal year.

Of this amount, 409.6 billion yen will be shouldered by health insurance
societies, 27.1 billion yen by the SIA-run program, and 130.7 billion yen by
mutual aid associations.

Excluding natural increases in costs resulting from the nation's aging society,
most of the remaining amount of about 180 billion yen will be used to cover
medical costs for those aged 65 to 74.

The series of reforms of the medical insurance system was partly designed to
limit the growing financial cost of providing health cover, which is borne by
workers, including members of health insurance societies. In reality, however,
the reforms increased the financial burden on workers.

However, payments made by the national health insurance program--in which
self-employed people and others are enrolled--as health insurance outlays for
the elderly declined by 449.6 billion yen from the previous fiscal year because
many elderly people have moved to the newly introduced health insurance system
for those aged 75 and older.

Citing problems resulting from the medical insurance system relating to those in
their late 60s and early 70s, the National Federation of Health Insurance
Societies has said only a fresh injection of public funds will be enough to
alleviate the financial crisis facing health insurance societies.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                January 22, 2012

Your Money: The high cost of health insurance

SECTION: PERSONAL FINANCE

LENGTH: 554 words


The amount you pay for health insurance will vary hugely, depending on the type
of cover you want. Before you choose a health insurance plan, consider whether
you want to be able to claim for hospital costs only, or for day-to-day medical
expenses too.

What type of hospital room would you like? Do you have children, or plan to have
a baby? Do you have any medical conditions?

All these considerations will help you to decide what type of cover is right for
you.

The Sunday Business Post compared the cost of health insurance for a number of
scenarios. Figures are based on the Health Insurance Authority's (HIA) online
comparison of health insurance plans.

It is important to note that full product benefits and terms and conditions,
such as the specific hospitals covered, may differ between insurers.

The following is only an indication of prices, and individual insurers should be
contacted for full details of benefits provided. You should not base your health
insurance decisions on premiums alone.

**1**Nick and his wife Annette are in their 30s, and plan to start a family
soon, so they want a plan with maternity benefits. They also want cover for a
semi-private room in a private hospital, with no inpatient excess. Cover for
day-to-day expenses is also required.

A total of 29 plans matched the couple's needs, with six plans from Quinn, three
from Aviva and 20 from VHI.

There was a difference of more than EUR 600 between the dearest and cheapest
plans, with the cheapest five options all from Quinn. Prices for the 29 options
ranged from an annual cost of EUR 825 per adult for Quinn's Healthwise Plus No
Excess plan, to EUR 1,460.94 for VHI's Health Plus Extra plan.

**2**Ellie is in her 20s, and wants basic hospital cover only. She would like a
health insurance plan that provides cover for a semi-private or private room in
a public hospital, with no in-patient excess.

She does not require day-to-day cover, and is not interested in plans with
specific cover for children or maternity benefits.

According to the HIA's website, 14 health insurance plans match her criteria,
with two options from Quinn, one from VHI and 11 from Aviva. The cheapest option
was Quinn's Essential First plan at EUR 485 per adult. The dearest option was
Aviva's Total Life Level 1 at EUR 742.

**3**Mairead is in her 50s, and wants prices for health insurance plans based on
a private room in a high-tech hospital. She does not want an in-patient excess
to apply. She would also like some cover for day-to-day expenses, and a low
outpatient excess of EUR 50 or less. As her children are now adults, she is not
interested in health insurance plans with cover for children or maternity
benefits.

Eleven health insurance plans match Mairead's criteria, with prices varying by
more than EUR 1,300 annually. There are two options from Quinn, one from VHI and
eight from Aviva. Both the cheapest and dearest options come from Quinn, with
Company Care Gold costing EUR 2,150 per adult per year, and Health Manager Gold
costing EUR 3,495.

VHI's PMI 04 11 plan is the second-dearest of the 11 options at an annual cost
of EUR 3,222. Aviva's options range in cost from EUR 2,943 for We Plan Level 5
with Day to Day A to EUR 3,080 for We Plan Level 5 with Day to Day B.

*For further information, see the HIA's website, www.hia.ie, or lo-call
1850-929166*

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              422 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Standard-Speaker (Hazleton, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            October 28, 2016 Friday

Health insurance costs take big bite out of HASD fund balance

BYLINE: Sam Galski, Standard-Speaker, Hazleton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 488 words


Oct. 28--Costs of Hazleton Area School District's self-funded health insurance
program ran over budget in the 2015-16 fiscal year and contributed to ther
district's overall fund balance dropping from approximately $12 million to about
$7 million over the course of the year, an administrator said.

A resolution approved by the school board effectively reshuffled portions of
Hazleton Area's overall fund balance into "committed" and "assigned" uses -- or
reserves established for health insurance, capital projects and costs associated
with Pennsylvania State Employes' Retirement System, Business Manager Anthony
Ryba said.

The development ensures the unreserved portion of the fund balance will remain
within limitations set by district policy, Ryba added.

According to the policy, the unreserved portion of the fund balance -- which is
available for use and not restricted in any manner -- must remain between 3
percent and 8 percent of budgeted expenses in any fiscal year.

The fund balance stood at approximately $7 million at the conclusion of the
2015-16 fiscal year, Ryba said.

The vote cast by the school board adjusted $3 million that was originally
committed for health insurance to $1 million as of June 30 while the capital
projects allocation was reduced from $2,896,448 to $1,326,448, according to a
resolution adopted by the school board.

A final reallocation reduces

$2 million assigned for PSERS costs to $500,000 at the fiscal year end.

Ryba said the shuffling of funds doesn't necessarily mean the money was spent.
The reserves were adjusted as the district crafted its annual financial report,
which must be filed with the state. It also ensures the unreserved portion of
the fund balance remains within the limits set by policy, he said.

The district began the fiscal year with a fund balance of around

$12 million and planned to spend $3.6 million of that money over that time
frame, he said.

The recently completed financial report revealed that the district actually
spent $5.1 million from its fund balance, or about $1.5 million more than it had
budgeted, he said.

The fund balance subsequently dropped from an anticipated

$8.6 million to about $7 million by the end of the 2015-16 fiscal year, he said.

In other business, the board:

--Approved Harpreet Kaur as a teacher for the Hazleton Area Alternative
Opportunities Program. By contract, Kaur will receive $31 per hour and the
appointment fills a need for a math teacher, a resolution states.

--Appointed Dahiana Romero as a student registration coordinator. The salary was
set by union contract at $32,552.

--Appointed Gina Passetti to a $43,920 certified school nurse position. Salary
is set by contract and the appointment hinges on receipt of state credentials,
the agenda reads.

sgalski@standardspeaker.com

___ (c)2016 the Standard-Speaker (Hazleton, Pa.) Visit the Standard-Speaker
(Hazleton, Pa.) at standardspeaker.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161028-ZX-Health-insurance-costs
-take-big-bite-out-of-HASD-fund-balance-1028-20161028

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZX


                        Copyright 2016 Standard-Speaker


                              423 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                December 14, 2005 Wednesday Penn/Elkhart Edition

Mishawaka city employees' insurance costs increase in 2006;
Raises for some workers leads to war of words between mayor, council member.

BYLINE: By SUE LOWE; Tribune Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 743 words


MISHAWAKA -- New contracts with the unions representing police and firefighters
will raise the cost of health insurance for all city employees.

The pacts also include pay raises for only police and firefighters that are
causing a war of words between Mayor Jeff Rea and James Benjamin, D-5th,
chairman of the negotiating committee of the Common Council.

The Mishawaka Board of Public Works and Safety approved the contracts Tuesday.

The council will vote on the contracts and the new wages for police and
firefighters at its meeting at 7 p.m. Monday.

Rea says the city doesn't have enough money for raises for everybody.

Benjamin says the money is there.

One thing the two elected officials have agreed on for some time is the need for
city employees to pay more to help cover the rising cost of health insurance.

Right now, employees pay $1.20 a month for health insurance for a family and two
cents a month for coverage for one person.

Next year, employees will have a lot of choices with costs ranging from $16.39 a
month to $165.50 a month.

Only the contracts with the Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 91 and the Mishawaka
Professional Fire Fighters Union Local 360 have the specific of health care
coverage.

Rea said contracts with other city employee groups call for them to get the same
health insurance coverage as everybody else.

That means the police and fire contracts determine everybody's health insurance.

Rea said all employees will have a choice between three levels of health
insurance he called "the Cadillac plan," "middle-of-the-road coverage" and
"basic coverage."

The police and firefighters have agreed to pay 12 percent of the cost of the
Cadillac plan, 8 percent of the cost of the middle-of-the-road plan and 4
percent of the cost of the basic plan for the next three years.

Rea said in 2006 that means coverage will cost $16.39 to $57.07 a month for one
person.

It will cost $34.25 to $119.27 a month for an employee and a spouse.

The cost for an employee and children will range from $29.50 to $102.72 a month.

And for an employee, spouse and children it will range from $47.52 to $165.50 a
month.

The mayor said the deductibles are going up and for the first time, employees
will have a co-pay or a small amount they must pay for each doctor's office
visit.

"It's hard for employees," Rea conceded. "It's quite a shock. We're sorry to
have to be in this boat."

But he believes the city's health insurance program is still one of the best in
the area.

The city has included some provisions to "help soften the blow," like allowing
employees to pay some health care costs with money on which they do not have to
pay taxes, according to the mayor.

The part of the contracts Rea and Benjamin don't agree on are salaries and
pension costs.

The hitch is that under Indiana law, police and firefighters negotiate with the
council and all other employees negotiate with the mayor and his administration.

Police and firefighters will get 1 percent raises for 2006, and the amount they
pay toward their own pensions will be cut in half.

Rea said they also will get $500 meant to soften the blow of the added insurance
costs.

The city already pays the full pension costs for other employees, costs which
are much lower than the cost for police and fire pensions.

But other employees won't get raises or a one-time payment to cover health care
costs.

"I had hoped we could give something to everybody," Rea said.

But he says the increases for police and fire will cost $530,000, leaving no
money for anybody else.

"I don't begrudge the police and firemen," he said. "Their unions did their job.
But the committee of the council has yet to grasp the financial condition of the
city."

Benjamin, on the other hand, said there is money available for raises for
everybody.

Council members refused to appropriate $344,000 of the expenditures in Rea's
budget for 2006 and Benjamin said the city got $500,000 in county taxes that
were not expected.

He thinks that means there is $844,000 available in 2006 for raises for
everybody.

"The mayor is being like a little child," Benjamin said. "He didn't get his
way."

He said Rea is sending letters to city employees not covered by the police and
fire contracts telling them it's the council's fault they will not get raises in
2006.

Staff writer Sue Lowe:

slowe@sbtinfo.com

(574) 235-6557

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2005 South Bend Tribune Corporation


                              424 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday
                               HeraldSun Edition

HOW YOU CAN BEAT THE PRICE RISE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 334  words


WHAT IS THE BIG HEALTH INSURANCE SWITCH?

The Big Health Insurance Switch is a national campaign using people power to cut
the cost of health insurance for Australian families. The campaign is seeking
40,000 Australian households to register and help unlock group discounted health
insurance offers.

WHY NOW?

Health insurance will rise again on April 1 - this time by 5.59per cent on
average, or about $200 for an average family policy. This will mean premiums
have risen by 142 per cent since 2002.

HOW DOES IT WORK?

There are three simple steps: 1 You register to demonstrate your support. It
only takes a few moments, it costs nothing and you are not obliged to take up
any offers negotiated.

2 One Big Switch sources the offers using the massive buying power of the
campaign to unlock group discounts for members.

3 You decide. One Big Switch (OBS) will email you any offers it is unable to
unlock, and you can take them up if they suit you. If not, you can use them to
negotiate with your current provider.

IF I JOIN THE CAMPAIGN, WHAT AM I GETTING MYSELF INTO?

Joining the Big Health Insurance Switch is obligation-free and cost-free. You
are simply joining a campaign to help unlock offers. You are under no obligation
to take up any offers. You will simply receive the offers by email and decide
for yourself. You will also be notified about other One Big Switch special
offers and campaigns.

DOES IT COST ANYTHING TO TAKE PART?

It costs nothing to take part. It is free to join and free to take part. You
decide if any offers are right for you, if One Big Switch is successful.

WILL IT DEFINITELY WORK?

The campaign is an experiment; there is no guarantee it will succeed. But it is
worth trying because families need help to cut the cost of spiralling health
cover bills.

To join the Big Health Insurance Switch go to www.onebigswitch.com.au*The Herald
Sun's publisher, News Corp Australia, and One Big Switch will earn a commission
from any accepted deals. News Corp Australia is a shareholder of One Big Switch.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald Sun


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday
                               HeraldSun2 Edition

JOIN THE BIG SWITCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 334  words


WHAT IS THE BIG HEALTH INSURANCE SWITCH?

The Big Health Insurance Switch is a national campaign using people power to cut
the cost of health insurance for Australian families. The campaign is seeking
40,000 Australian households to register and help unlock group discounted health
insurance offers.

WHY NOW?

Health insurance will rise again on April 1 - this time by 5.59per cent on
average, or about $200 for an average family policy. This will mean premiums
have risen by 142 per cent since 2002.

HOW DOES IT WORK?

There are three simple steps: 1 You register to demonstrate your support. It
only takes a few moments, it costs nothing and you are not obliged to take up
any offers negotiated.

2 One Big Switch sources the offers using the massive buying power of the
campaign to unlock group discounts for members.

3 You decide. One Big Switch (OBS) will email you any offers it is unable to
unlock, and you can take them up if they suit you. If not, you can use them to
negotiate with your current provider.

IF I JOIN THE CAMPAIGN, WHAT AM I GETTING MYSELF INTO?

Joining the Big Health Insurance Switch is obligation-free and cost-free. You
are simply joining a campaign to help unlock offers. You are under no obligation
to take up any offers. You will simply receive the offers by email and decide
for yourself. You will also be notified about other One Big Switch special
offers and campaigns.

DOES IT COST ANYTHING TO TAKE PART?

It costs nothing to take part. It is free to join and free to take part. You
decide if any offers are right for you, if One Big Switch is successful.

WILL IT DEFINITELY WORK?

The campaign is an experiment; there is no guarantee it will succeed. But it is
worth trying because families need help to cut the cost of spiralling health
cover bills.

To join the Big Health Insurance Switch go to www.onebigswitch.com.au*The Herald
Sun's publisher, News Corp Australia, and One Big Switch will earn a commission
from any accepted deals. News Corp Australia is a shareholder of One Big Switch.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald Sun


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday

City workers face higher insurance costs

BYLINE: Eddie Fitzgerald, Sun Journal, New Bern, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 522 words


May 27--It's going to cost city employees more in the future to get sick.

New Bern aldermen listened to a report on the rising cost of providing health
insurance to city employees Wednesday night during a budget workshop. On
Thursday, city workers were notified their health insurance options will change
and they will be paying more out of their pockets for health care.

The city has to budget $7 million next fiscal year for city employee health
insurance coverage, an increase of more than $1 million over current budget.
Health insurance has the largest impact on the city budget besides salaries.

The city's consultant, Integra Benefit Management Services, anticipates an
increase in insurance costs in 2013 due to rising health care costs and of
recent city health insurance claims, according to a memorandum from the city
manager to aldermen.

Mike Epperson, city manager, said during the current fiscal year he estimated
they would spend $6.4 million in health care costs. The city budgeted for $5.9
million, a gap of about $500,000, he said.

There are reserve funds and savings in all of the departmental funds that will
allow the city to cover the cost, Epperson said.

Epperson said the city is locked into a contract for the year and had to make
changes. The city will look at other options during the coming fiscal year. Even
with the $7 million budgeted for next fiscal year, a shortfall of funds is
expected, he said.

Sonya Hayes, the city's human resources director, said the city will go to a
70/30 insurance program starting July 1. Employees will have a 30 percent
co-pay, up from a current co-pay of 20 percent; and increasing the out-of-pocket
maximum from $2,500 to $5,000 for individuals, and $4,000 to $7,000 for
families, she said. Those figures include the $600 deductible.

Prescription co-pays will also change. As a way to steer employees toward using
more generic drugs, the co-pay for those will remain at $10 for a 30-day supply.

But co-payments for brand name drugs will increase from $35 to $50;
non-preferable brand name drug co-pays will increase from $60 to $80; and
specialty drug co-pays will increase from 10 percent up to $100 to 10 percent up
to $200 for a 30-day supply.

Mail order drug co-pays will also increase, except generic drugs which will
remain at $20 for a 90-day supply.

Co-pays for name brand mail order drugs will increase from $70 to $100;
Non-preferred brand name drugs, $120 to $160; and employees will no longer pay
10 percent up to $200 for 90 days of specialty drugs. The new rate will increase
to 10 percent up to $400.

The city will also no longer allow spouses to be covered by its insurance plan
if they are eligible for health coverage with their own employers.

Alderman Denny Bucher said anyone involved with a public company would say it
was a good plan.

Everyone was facing the same high insurance rates, he said.

Eddie Fitzgerald can be reached at 252-635-5675 or at efitzgerald@freedomenc.com
Follow him on Twitter @staffwriter3.

___ (c)2012 the Sun Journal (New Bern, N.C.) Visit the Sun Journal (New Bern,
N.C.) at http://www.newbernsj.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120527-NS-City-workers-face-higher-insurance-costs-0527-20120527

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NS


                           Copyright 2012 Sun Journal


                              427 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Janesville Gazette (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          December 22, 2010 Wednesday

Report: Health care premiums stay low

BYLINE: Gina Duwe, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 535 words


Dec. 22--JANESVILLE -- Janesville and Beloit remain among the metro areas in
Wisconsin with the lowest health care premium costs, while the area's health
insurance inflation in the last year followed the state average of 7 percent,
according to a study released Tuesday.

Out of 12 metro areas, Janesville and Beloit ranked third lowest in single
monthly premium costs at $678.34, according to the Wisconsin Health Insurance
Cost Rankings 2011, authored by Robert Kraig of the Citizen Action of Wisconsin.

Walworth County's premium cost was slightly higher at $702.47.

The study ranks the state's major cities and regions on health insurance costs
based on employee plans and health plan quality.

The fifth annual report shows a continued wide variation between higher- and
lower-cost areas. That variation reaches 30 percent between the highest-cost
metro area, La Crosse, and the lowest-cost area, Madison, for a difference of
$2,114 for a single annual policy.

Janesville benefits from its proximity to Madison, Kraig said, because many
health plans available in Madison are also available here.

Rock County ranks well within the state, but it's all relative, he said. Health
insurance inflation in Rock County was 172 percent since 2000, he said, which is
above the national average of 130 percent.

Walworth County inflation hit 180 percent in the last 10 years, he said.

Kraig hasn't looked specifically at health care capacity needs in Rock County,
but he said he's leery of extra capacity being built. Two new hospitals are
under construction in Rock County.

"I would be concerned about that based on the five years of the report because
one of the reasons the health care market is broken is that building additional
capacity that is not needed is not punished in the health care marketplace," he
said.

He cited the Milwaukee area and northeastern Wisconsin as examples where
building may have increased health insurance costs.

Plan quality

Dean Health Plan and MercyCare both received two out of four stars in health
insurance plan quality. Only two other health plans--Anthem Blue Cross and
Humana--received lower scores, while UnitedHealthCare also received two stars.
Eleven health plans received either three or four stars.

Two stars are average, Kraig said, and some of the Madison plans are high
quality.

The quality ratings are a measure of consumer satisfaction and data on quality
based on claim reviews, he said.

When asked for a reaction to the study, Mercy Health System responded with a
statement from Vice President Joe Nemeth:

"MercyCare Health Plans continually strives for cost and quality improvements,
following the standards of the National Committee of Quality Assurance. As an
'excellent' accredited organization (the highest accredited status by NCQA), we
see focusing on the quality of the care we provide as a key to lowering health
insurance costs."

To see more of The Janesville Gazette, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.gazetteextra.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101222-JG-Report-Health-care-premiums-stay-low-1222-20101222

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JG


                     Copyright 2010 The Janesville Gazette


                              428 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   Herald Sun

                              June 3, 1991 Monday

Health cover a private decision

BYLINE: GARTLAND S

SECTION: MONEY SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 801 words


ONLY 44.4 per cent of Australia's population are covered by private health
insurance compared to 70.2 per cent prior to the introduction of the Medicare
system in 1984.

That drop in private cover is mainly due to the popularity of the Medicare
system and partly due to increasing cost of private health care cover.

The end result is waiting lists for the public system and under use of the
private system. The decision you have to make is whether you are prepared to
rely on public health care and Medicare or dip into your wallet to buy into the
private health system.

The average cost of private health cover varies from a low of $10 a week for the
most basic cover to $25 a week for top level health insurance. However the costs
of health cover are set to rise. Medibank Private health insurance rates rose 16
per cent on June 1 following rises in contribution rates from ANA in April, HBA
in February and Manchester Unity in March. On top of that, if you are an income
earner, you will also be charged the Medicare levy of 1.25 per cent.

Chief executive of the Voluntary Health Benefits Association, Mr Russell
Schneider, believes talk of the rising cost of private health insurance is
misleading as "all prices are rising at present".

"The fact is health insurance still costs less than what many people pay for
beer every week. If you gave up smoking then the savings would pay for your
health insurance," he said.

"Dollar for dollar, health insurance is still cheaper than car insurance and the
cost of health care is small compared to a stay in hospital."Spokesman for the
Health Benefits Council of Victoria, Mr Murray Campbell, said there are no areas
that standard private health insurance covered that Medicare didn't.

ALTHOUGH naturally I believe that anyone who can afford private health cover
should have it," he said.

"Private health insurance offers three main advantages - choice, convenience and
timing. You get the choice of doctors and hospitals, you get the convenience of
using services close to you and you get to choose when you go into hospital."
"In times of emergency then obviously no-one really cares but for the majority
of surgical and medical procedures that are not, having a choice makes a big
difference." Mr Campbell points out that most of the major public hospitals are
in and around the central business district and for many being forced to go to
such centres is often inconvenient.

He said another reason the more wealthy should be encouraged to take out health
insurance is that it frees up the public system for those with lower incomes.

The National Health Strategy report released by the Federal Government earlier
this year showed 250,000 high income earners did not have private health
insurance.

The National Health Strategy was set up to look at many of the problems of the
health system which has been built up over years of political changes.In the
past 20 years there have been seven major changes with minor changes every year.

Mr Schneider said things have temporarily settled down with the number of people
in health insurance holding steady.

"We saw a massive drop after Medicare but there are now more people in health
care than in any period since then," he said.

"Market research and anecdotal information shows that people value the choice of
their own doctor and the right to choose where they are treated." THE other
advantage of private health insurance is that it allows you to miss the waiting
lists for elective surgery in many of the public hospitals.

The current estimates of how many people are on waiting lists for elective
surgery are claimed to be as high as 24,000, although exact figures are
impossible to get.

There are no waiting lists for the private health system.

If you decide you do want extra health cover then there are 16 health funds to
choose from in Victoria.The largest is Medibank followed by HBA, ANA and
Manchester unity.

But Mr Campbell said not to bother checking out every policy.

"I recommend you select about three companies and take the policy that suits you
best," he said.

If you are young and reasonably healthy then Mr Campbell suggested getting the
best cover you can afford. If you are getting older or thinking of having
children then he suggested top cover.

Russell Schneider said people wanting to join a company should consider the
recommendations of friends who had dealt with the same company.

"Individuals also have to realise that if they pay bargain basement prices for
insurance they will receive bargain basement cover," he said.

Another decision you have to make is whether you wish to take on extra cover to
cover items like dental care and physiotherapy which normal health cover or
Medicare will not pay for.

END OF STORY

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON AND TABLE

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 1991 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              429 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             August 10, 2009 Monday

Audit shows few ineligible for insurance

BYLINE: Nick Kotsopoulos

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 356 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


WORCESTER - An audit looking into the eligibility of the 7,098 enrolled
dependents covered under the city's health insurance plans has found that
slightly more than 97 percent were properly enrolled and documented.

The dependent audit, done for the city by its health insurance adviser, Group
Benefits Strategies, has led to the removal of 202, or 2.85 percent, of those
dependents who were covered under city health plans.

City Manager Michael V. O'Brien said that is expected to generate an estimated
$260,000 in annual premium savings - $77,000 for the city and $183,000 for the
public schools - because of changes in enrollment from family to individual
plans, and to create an opportunity for $800,000 in future claims cost
reductions.

"While the savings are not available to directly restore (municipal) services,
these dollars will accumulate in the city's Health Trust Fund and be used to
offset future year's premium increases," Mr. O'Brien wrote in a report to the
City Council.

"For fiscal year 2011, the savings could mitigate health insurance premium cost
increases by as much as 15 percent," he added.

As of Jan. 1, the city has 3,600 employees enrolled in conventional family
health insurance plans, with nearly 7,100 spouses and dependents covered as
well.

The council pushed hard for having a dependent audit done to weed out those who
are no longer eligible for health insurance coverage. Some councilors had argued
that doing that would lower the city's health insurance costs, possibly by at
least $2 million.

Some councilors were looking to use the savings generated by the audit to pay
for at least 25 percent of municipal retirees' Medicare Part B costs.

In its detailed report, Group Benefits Strategies said its audit underscores the
"outstanding job" done by the city's Human Resources Department in verifying the
eligibility of dependents covered under health insurance plans.

Industry standards show that, on average, eligible dependent populations are
"much lower" than the 97 percent achieved by the city.

Mr. O'Brien said the city's health insurance premium costs are escalating at a
rate lower than industry averages.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORCESTER - An audit looking into the eligibility of the 7,098 enrolled
dependents covered under the city's health insurance plans has found that
slightly more than 97 percent were properly enrolled and documented. The
dependent audit, done for the city by its health insurance adviser, Group
Benefits Strategies, has led to the removal of 202, or 2.85 percent, of those
dependents who were covered under city health plans.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              430 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 27, 1978, Wednesday, Final Edition

Kennedy, Labor Leaders Agree on Health Insurance Plan

BYLINE: By Victor Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: First Section; A11

LENGTH: 692 words


Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and top labor leaders, at odds with President
Carter over national health insurance, have agreed to their own plan that would
provide coverage to all Americans and clamp tighter controls on costs then
anything proposed by the president.

The plan grew out of Kennedy's and labor's dissatisfaction with proposals issued
by Carter in July that called for a program that would be phased in over a
number of years and only if various economic conditions warranted.

The opposition plan, which Kennedy may unveil later this week, was approved
unanimously yesterday by the executive committee or the laborbacked Committee
for National Health Insurance, headed by United Auto Workers president Douglas
A. Fraser.

Also present were Lane Kirkland, AFL-CIO secretary-treasurer, and
representatives of consumer, farm, women's and nurses' groups, as well as other
unions.

Kennedy plans to open hearing on the plan before his Senate health subcommittee
on Oct. 9.  On Oct. 25 he expects to start out-of-town hearings in Detroit,
where UAW officials are concerned that the cost of health benefits will cut
deeply into wages in future contracts.

This threat has made labor leaders eager to press the health insurance issue.

According to a text obtained by The Washington Post, the Kennedy plan lays out a
specific combination of private insurance and federal payments to give the same
level of benefits to the employed and unemployed, the poor and the elderly.

In another sharp departure from the President's present plan to phase in any new
health insurance piece by piece as the economy and health costs permit, the
Kennedy-labor plan would go into effect two years after Congress adopted it.

To afford this, however, a set of "limits" would go into effect immediately on
both hospital bills and doctors' services.  This temporary control on health
costs would be accomplished by broad "budget caps": annual limits on rates of
increase much like those so far unseccessfully sought by the Administration.

Then two years later, when the new plan's benefits took effect, a new Federal
"Public Authority" would begin to work through 51 "State Authorities" - usually
existing health agencies - to negotiate in advance with all hospitals and
classes of doctors to set specific fees, rates and hospital budgets each year.

The ambitious goal would be to hold future cost increases in line with the
inflation rate.

By holding costs down, the Kennedy plan's added cost to the federal budget -
beyond the $36 billion currently paid for Medicare and Medicaid benefits - would
be $18 billion to $20 billion in 1978 dollars.

In addition it was estimated, "around $5 billion" would have to be added to the
approximately $45 billion that remployers and employes pay for health insurance.

"The key is cost control," said another proponent.  The state of Maryland's
powerful Health Services Cost Review Commission held hospital costs to a 7 to 8
percent increase in the year ended last June, while costs nationally rose 12 to
13 percent.

Then states already have similar bodies to negotiate hospital rates or approve
budgets in advance in much the same way as the "prospective budget review" in
the CNHI plan.

The plan was drawn up largely by CNHI technical committee headed by I.S. Falk.
Yale professor emeritus who, as Social Security Administration research
director, helped lead the fight for government health insurance for many years.

Among the plan's features:

Private health insurers - commercial or Blue Cross-Blue Shield - would have to
be "certified" as providing equal benefits to all without excluding anyone for
age or previous illnesses.

The insurers would have to belong to "consortiums" to help negotiate hospital
and medical fees.

Under a scheme of "earnings-based premiums," some low-paying employers could pay
less than others and some high-paying employers could pay more.

The federal government would pay the costs of insurance for the poor and the
unemployed, as well as some of the costs of lowearners any poor or unemployed
citizen could join any certified insurance or prepaid medical plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1978 The Washington Post


                              431 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           The Nikkei Weekly (Japan)

                                 April 16, 2001

Health insurance unions stricken by financial woes

BYLINE: NAMI M. ABE Staff writer

LENGTH: 723 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Deficits expected in 90% of fiscal 2001 budgets; sweeping reforms urged


Health-insurance unions organized by major companies, known as Kempo unions, are
facing severe financial difficulties. About 90% of Kempo unions - there are more
than 1,700 nationwide - are projected to run deficits in their fiscal 2001
budgets, with the aggregate deficit seen reaching a record 490 billion yen,
according to a survey by the National Federation of Health Insurance Societies.

Kenji Yamada, senior consultant at Nomura Research Institute in medical and
social welfare systems, spoke recently with The Nikkei Weekly about the problems
of the Kempo unions and possible prescriptions to return the system to health.
Excerpts from the interview follow.

Q: The financial situation of the Kempo unions is getting progressively worse.
What caused the problems?

A: Japan's health insurance system can be broadly classified into two categories
- the employees' health insurance and the national health insurance. Kempo
belongs to the employees' health insurance category, and covers the medical
expenses of employees working for large companies and their dependents. Workers
employed by smaller firms and their dependents are covered by a different
employees' health insurance scheme. The remainder - including the self-employed,
farmers, students - rely on national health insurance.

The national health insurance scheme tends to have a larger share of elderly
subscribers than the other categories, and thus bears a heavy burden
financially. In order to equalize the burden of health care costs for the
elderly among the existing insurance schemes, several reforms have been put into
place in the past 20 years. After the reforms, the health-care costs for those
aged 70 or older are shared among the insurance schemes, which means the
financial burden of Kempo unions has increased dramatically.

Q: Do you see the cost-sharing system for the elderly as the main reason for the
deterioration in the financial situation of Kempo unions?

A: There are other factors, including stagnant premium revenue due to a
shrinking work force, especially young employees. Wage levels of big
corporations have largely been flat and this also has had a negative impact on
Kempo unions' premium revenue. Introducing the cost-sharing system for the
elderly was fine with most Kempo unions as long as premium revenue continues to
grow.

But reducing the number of employees while dramatic wage increase is unlikely
means decreasing premium revenues. In other words, Kempo unions' expenditures
have been expanding due to the health insurance reforms while the revenue
situation is getting steadily worse.

Q: Since 1998, more than 10 Kempo unions per year have disbanded due to
financial difficulties. But under the current system, defunct Kempo unions are
transferred to the government-managed health insurance scheme. Given that, the
situation does not look so bad for individual subscribers, does it?

A: As long as subscribers are healthy and don't need to use hospitals, it
doesn't matter much to them if their health insurance is provided by a Kempo
union or the government-managed scheme. But if they suffer a serious injury or
contract a disease requiring expensive medical care, the difference becomes
clear.

Many Kempo unions have their own financial support packages to pay a larger
amount of medical costs for subscribers, which are much better than the ones
government-managed plans have. If a Kempo union goes bust and is transferred to
the government-managed scheme, I am afraid to say that many subscribers would
feel the pain.

Q: What is a possible prescription for the Kempo unions to regain their
financial health?

A: Japan's medical spending in the current fiscal year is expected to increase
5.5%, or 1.6 trillion yen, to 30.7 trillion yen. The share of health care costs
for the elderly has climbed continuously to about 36%. For most Kempo unions, it
will be very difficult to continue to cover the medical expenses of the elderly.

I believe it is high time to consider sweeping reform of the entire health-care
system. One idea is to bulk up the individual Kempo unions through mergers, and
thus achieve a better balance of younger and older subscribers. In addition, a
quality-control approach to medical services and the adoption of cost-effective
evaluations of hospital performance are also needed.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. Nikkei Weekly,
                                 April 16, 2001


                              432 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             June 28, 1991, Friday

Health reforms fail to cure ills

SECTION: EDITORIAL; SECTION A; PAGE 12

LENGTH: 477 words


Serious and unstable condition, that's the latest prognosis for America's
health-care system. Costs continue to rise while the number of Americans
adequately covered by health insurance declines.

Despite rigorous public and private cost-control measures, health- care outlays
in 1990 consumed $ 671 billion of the national economic output, up 1.3 percent
from '88. More meaningfully, the nation is spending roughly $ 2,600 per person
for health care. The trouble is, not all Americans receive a share for care. One
in eight Americans lacks health insurance - 31.5 million people. A decade
earlier the number was 28.4 million.

The figures define the dilemma for policymakers. Health-care spending must be
contained, yet more people need to be covered by health insurance. None of the
health-care reforms currently proposed realistically resolves the problem.

A national health-care plan, akin to Canada's, would guarantee universal
coverage and arguably reduce costs. The proposal, however, demands radical
upheavals. It would eliminate existing private insurance, a multibillion-dollar
industry employing tens of thousands of Americans. More alarming, it would
intensify governmental intrusion into personal and marketplace decisions.

The Democrats' plan would compel businesses to subsidize coverage for the
uninsured. The "play or pay" plan, as it's called, requires employers to insure
all workers or contribute to a national health insurance fund to cover all
uninsured Americans. The proposal fails on two counts. It would drive up
health-care spending by increasing demand for medical services, and it would
shackle the competitiveness of U.S. businesses.

A tax-credit proposal, popular among conservatives, would make health policies
affordable to more Americans by vastly reducing or eliminating health-insurance
premiums from personal income tax via a refundable credit. The plan would
increase coverage but would not necessarily contain costs.

There are other proposals, but these are the leading contenders. Sad to say, the
Bush administration has yet to present its plan.

That the three plans are flawed is not cause for despair. The nation's
health-care system, for good or ill, took more than 40 years to build. It is
exceedingly complex, a jigsaw puzzle of societal values, medical traditions,
economic relationships, public policy and politics.

In concrete terms, a national health policy must prevent deprivation of care,
relieve catastrophic financial hardship, contain costs by consumer cost
-consciousness, avoid tax increases, deter complicated and costly administrative
procedures and gain popular acceptance among beneficiaries, the medical
community and bill payers.

All tall orders, to be sure, but anything less will provide a health- care
system hardly better than the existing one.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


                              433 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 14, 1992, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BARE-BONES HEALTH-CARE PLAN IS INSUFFICIENT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 378 words


A new state law that seeks to make health insurance more affordable for small
businesses and their employees marks yet another modest step toward piecemeal
health-insurance reforms in Missouri. Though this proposal is welcome, it will
provide no relief for hundreds of thousands of working poor Missourians who have
inadequate health insurance.  The intent of the new law is to bring health care
to more of the state's small businesses that have between three and 25 workers.
Up to now, premiums for such insurance have been too expensive, especially when
it came to coverage of a chronic illness, such as a heart condition. The new law
will help businesses lower the cost of insuring such workers by placing them in
a large health insurance pool.  Gov. John Ashcroft praised the new law and a
separate health-care cost-disclosure provision. He says consumers will now be
able to make ''wise and economical'' decisions due to the state's requirement
that hospitals disclose the cost of various procedures and their treatment
success rates. The information is supposed to persuade consumers to shop around
for less expensive care and thereby help reduce medical inflation. But numerous
factors beyond cost dictate where people seek medical care and whom they choose
to treat them. Cost of the care isn't always as important as the expertise of
the doctors providing the treatment and the reputation of the medical facility
where the care is given.  The health-insurance provision of the law might help
between 50,000 and 100,000 workers in a state where a minimum of 600,000 people
have inadequate health insurance. The premiums are certain to be higher than
premiums paid by most Missourians. In addition, the law gives small businesses
the option of offering scaled-back policies as a way to keep down the cost of
health insurance.  This program probably pleases those who say a little health
insurance is better than none. But Missouri has to do more. It can't continue to
ignore the fact that many of its working poor, who won't be helped by this
program, still lack the means to cover the cost of serious illnesses. Their
plight is best addressed by a universal health-insurance system that emphasizes
prevention and assures care for all Missourians.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              434 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Health care reform can't wait Insurance o Our approach to health care in the
United States is broken. OTHER VIEWS

BYLINE: BY Julie Burkhart

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: 0


Congress now is getting down to detailed work on health insurance reform. It's
been more than 15 years since the last serious effort to reform the nation's
health care system. While much has changed, some aspects of the current debate
are, in the words of Yogi Berra, "like déjà vu all over again."

It should be abundantly clear by now that the current approach to health care in
the United States is broken. Health insurance reform was a central issue in the
2008 presidential election. As costs and industry profits rise in tandem,
ordinary folks are feeling the pinch. In Missouri, the cost of health insurance
grew at more than three times the rate household income did from 2000 to 2009.
Health care premiums are on track to double in 10 years.

Today, 47 million Americans are without health insurance. This grim count grows
at the rate of 2.3 million annually. Broken down by weeks, that means that more
than 132,000 Americans lost their health insurance over the course of the recent
Congressional recess. America needs health insurance reform, and it needs it
now. Probably the most discussed of the reform proposals is H.R. 3200.

H.R. 3200 would set minimum requirements of coverage that all insurance
providers would be required to meet if they offer health insurance. This
"essential benefits package" would include coverage for hospitalization,
prescription drugs, mental health services, preventive care, maternity care and
care for children's dental, vision and hearing. It would ban annual or lifetime
limits on coverage in all of these areas.

Under H.R. 3200, insurance companies no longer would be allowed to ban from
coverage people with a pre-existing conditions, and they would not be allowed to
drop coverage except in clear cases of fraud. One of the cruelest ironies of the
existing, broken system is that those who need coverage the most - those who are
chronically ill - risk losing coverage if they have it, and can't get it if they
don't. H.R. 3200 would correct this, and insurance companies would be required
to cover the sick. This basic principle speaks volumes about how the deficiency
of the current arrangement.

Probably the most talked about and most significant piece of H.R. 3200 and other
proposals is the "public option." The public option, while being portrayed in
the media as controversial, actually enjoys fairly robust support among the
general public. A recent Quinnipiac University poll found that 62 percent
support the public option, with 32 percent opposed. Still, there seems to be
some confusion about the "public option." Quinnipiac called it "the option of
being covered by a government health insurance plan that would compete with
private plans." No one would be required to buy the public option, and those who
are happy with the insurance they already have would be able to keep it.

The public option is key to reigning in the cost of health care. In the short
term, the public option would contain costs via administrative efficiencies.
More than 15 percent of total private insurance company revenue goes to
administration and profits. Compare that to the federally-run Medicare program,
which spends only 2 percent of its revenue on administration. The public option
would realize cost savings in the short term by using its vast bargaining power
to negotiate lower prices for prescription drugs.

In the long term, the public option would realize cost savings by controlling
the rate of price increases. Again, comparing Medicare costs to private insurer
costs, we find that from 1997 to 2006, private insurance expenditures per
enrollee increased at 150 percent the rate that Medicare costs per enrollee did.

By virtue of its size and its competitive place in the market, the public option
would create incentives for private insurers to rein in bloated administrative
spending, negotiate lower prescription drug costs and hold down cost increases
over time.

As Congress works on a bill, the health care situation on the ground continues
to deteriorate. If history is any indication, we won't have another shot at this
for 15 or more years. With 2.3 million Americans losing coverage annually, it's
clear that health care reform can't wait.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                              June 2, 1992 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

MEDIBANK TARGETS THE YOUNG

BYLINE: JULIE POWER

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 396 words


Medibank Private introduced a range of health insurance products yesterday to
entice the young and healthy who are regarded as "good risks" back into the fold
while hitting those with existing policies with a premium rise.

It is banking on a 25 per cent increase in its membership of 2.2 million as a
result of the new range, and a similar increase in the private health insurance
market as other funds follow suit.

According to the general manager of the Health Insurance Commission and chief
executive of Medibank Private, Mr Lawrie Willett, the fall in private health
insurance coverage to 41.9 per cent of the population has to be stopped. Fewer
people in private health insurance was forcing up the costs for those remaining.

"Our belief is we are going to attract back to private health insurance a lot of
people who are probably very good risks. To the extent we do, we will certainly
reduce the cost of health insurance for all Australians."

He said the new products broke with the conventional wisdom about health
insurance which said consumers wanted "first-dollar cover".

The new "Select and Save" health cover offers savings of up to 64 per cent to
customers willing to pay excess, up to $500 for a family each year, and by
excluding some procedures.

One package provides substantial discounts by excluding cardio-thoracic surgery
such as heart bypass, cataracts and corneal implant surgery and joint
replacement such as hip replacements.

Other health funds claimed these selective insurance policies undermined the
principle of community rating by favouring one community group over another, in
this case the young over the elderly. Mr Willett said contrary to these claims,
the new packages strengthened community rating.

He said community rating worked on the premise that the healthy would subsidise
the sick, and cover would be affordable for those who needed it most.

"This assumption worked well when 60 or 70 per cent of Australians had private
cover but how long can it continue when the number is nearer 40 per cent is open
to question."

The new packages are based on comprehensive market research by Medibank Private
earlier this year which found nearly half of those without private cover would
buy it if it was affordable.

The premium prices vary from 3 per cent for Tasmania's most-sold family policy
to 15.5 per cent for the most popular policy in South Australia.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1992 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              436 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 April 3, 2017

Health insurance costs reduced by move to allowances

BYLINE: Ruth Wildgust

LENGTH: 484 words



HIGHLIGHT: Allowance schemes give employers full control of healthcare costs


Faced with upward pressure on the costs of healthcare insurance, an increasing
number of companies are considering switching from defined benefit health
insurance plans to healthcare allowances.

"Many new schemes we put in place are based on an allowance model, where the
employer gives every employee an allowance towards healthcare expenses," said
Dermot Goode at health insurance brokerage Total HealthCover.ie.

"With allowance schemes, the employer has full control of their costs and
employees are free to choose their preferred insurance provider. Employees can
opt for benefits such as VSP eye care, DeCare dental care plans and HSF medical
cash plans," said Goode.

"Employers select the level of the allowance, the eligibility criteria, how the
allowances will be paid, and whether tiered allowances will apply according to
level of seniority or length of service."

He said annual health allowances varied from [#x20ac]500 to [#x20ac]2,000 per
employee.

"Typically, the allowances we see are between [#x20ac]1,000 and [#x20ac]1,500
covering around 65 per cent of the full cost of a health insurance plan (after
tax or benefit-in-kind deductions) with employees contributing the balance
themselves," said Goode.

"There are 360 plans out there and our research has indicated that four out of
five consumers are currently on the wrong plans," he said

"Most companies review their pension and investment strategy and general
insurance cover each year, but fail to review their health insurance. Many small
businesses are overpaying for their health insurance."

According to Goode, there are big savings to be made and a company's health
insurance review should take place annually, well in advance of the renewal
date.

"A month before renewal date is too late to start reviewing your health
insurance scheme. We start to review the health benefits in place three months
before the renewal date which gives companies loads of time to review all the
options and to advise employees of any changes," he said.

"One of the big trends in company schemes is employee wellness services
including health screening and on-site services. In some cases, these services
are supplied free of charge by the health insurance companies."

Goode said factors driving up healthcare costs included Ireland's ageing
population and the demand for cover for new technologies such as PillCam capsule
endoscopes and CyberKnife robotic radiosurgery system.

"Another inflationary factor is the practice of public hospitals targeting
people with private health insurance and requesting they sign a form waiving
their right to be treated as public patients," he said.

"Instead of being charged [#x20ac]80 per night, they are then charged over
[#x20ac]813 per night for exactly the same treatment, which is billed to their
private health insurer. This has pushed rates up because it cost the insurance
industry [#x20ac]150 million, adding an extra 5 to 8 per cent on the overall
claims bills."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              437 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 April 3, 2017

Health insurance costs reduced by move to allowances

BYLINE: Ruth Wildgust

LENGTH: 484 words



HIGHLIGHT: Allowance schemes give employers full control of healthcare costs


Faced with upward pressure on the costs of healthcare insurance, an increasing
number of companies are considering switching from defined benefit health
insurance plans to healthcare allowances.

"Many new schemes we put in place are based on an allowance model, where the
employer gives every employee an allowance towards healthcare expenses," said
Dermot Goode at health insurance brokerage Total HealthCover.ie.

"With allowance schemes, the employer has full control of their costs and
employees are free to choose their preferred insurance provider. Employees can
opt for benefits such as VSP eye care, DeCare dental care plans and HSF medical
cash plans," said Goode.

"Employers select the level of the allowance, the eligibility criteria, how the
allowances will be paid, and whether tiered allowances will apply according to
level of seniority or length of service."

He said annual health allowances varied from [#x20ac]500 to [#x20ac]2,000 per
employee.

"Typically, the allowances we see are between [#x20ac]1,000 and [#x20ac]1,500
covering around 65 per cent of the full cost of a health insurance plan (after
tax or benefit-in-kind deductions) with employees contributing the balance
themselves," said Goode.

"There are 360 plans out there and our research has indicated that four out of
five consumers are currently on the wrong plans," he said

"Most companies review their pension and investment strategy and general
insurance cover each year, but fail to review their health insurance. Many small
businesses are overpaying for their health insurance."

According to Goode, there are big savings to be made and a company's health
insurance review should take place annually, well in advance of the renewal
date.

"A month before renewal date is too late to start reviewing your health
insurance scheme. We start to review the health benefits in place three months
before the renewal date which gives companies loads of time to review all the
options and to advise employees of any changes," he said.

"One of the big trends in company schemes is employee wellness services
including health screening and on-site services. In some cases, these services
are supplied free of charge by the health insurance companies."

Goode said factors driving up healthcare costs included Ireland's ageing
population and the demand for cover for new technologies such as PillCam capsule
endoscopes and CyberKnife robotic radiosurgery system.

"Another inflationary factor is the practice of public hospitals targeting
people with private health insurance and requesting they sign a form waiving
their right to be treated as public patients," he said.

"Instead of being charged [#x20ac]80 per night, they are then charged over
[#x20ac]813 per night for exactly the same treatment, which is billed to their
private health insurer. This has pushed rates up because it cost the insurance
industry [#x20ac]150 million, adding an extra 5 to 8 per cent on the overall
claims bills."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              438 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Appeal-Democrat (Marysville, California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday

Health insurance hikes pose challenge for public agencies

BYLINE: Ben van der Meer, Appeal-Democrat, Marysville, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 749 words


March 03--Sometimes, the jump isn't as big. Often, the increases aren't anything
unusual for health insurance rates, and costs, in general.

But every fiscal year, those in charge of budgets with public agencies across
Yuba-Sutter are seeing the same thing: Health insurance costing more.

Go back a few years, and the numbers are plain to see: A $700,000 rise in health
insurance costs from 2001-02 to 2011-12 for the Yuba Community College District,
even though there are six fewer employees.

In Yuba County, a monthly insurance premium for an employee with a family of
four was $961 in 2005, including dental and vision. Now it's $1,734.

Continual increases are by no means limited to the public sector. But because
most public agencies have employees working under labor contracts, adjusting to
those continual rises is a tougher proposition. Robin Bertagna, Yuba City's
finance director, said the contract with city employees doesn't expire until
June 2014.

Because the contract doesn't have clauses to "reopen" on health insurance, last
year's increase of more than $50,000 in health insurance costs, about 2 percent,
was the city's responsibility.

"We look at all options," Bertagna said. "Our city staff tries to be pretty
creative."

Eraina Ortega, a senior legislative representative for the California State
Association of Counties, said personnel costs are usually the single biggest
expenditure for counties and other public agencies.

As pressure rises from those expenditures, like payrolls and benefits, it puts
pressure on an agency's ability to provide services, she said.

"You're seeing more places start wellness initiatives," she said, designed to
encourage employees to lose weight or stop smoking and bring down health care
costs in the future. "But those things can only go so far."

On the employee side, the executive director of the largest employee bargaining
groups in Yuba and Sutter counties said his members also see the problem.

Gary Stucky of Sutter/Yuba County Employees Association Local No. 1, said
although each county gets health insurance from different sources, both are
seeing similar rising costs.

"You're going to be challenged with sustainability," he said, adding Yuba County
has approached its managers, who aren't represented by the employees
association, about paying 10 percent more for their health insurance. He said
similar requests could come when his group's contract is up.

But some changes will have to come externally, he said.

"In general, we owe it to an aging population to make sure they have access to
comprehensive, affordable health care when they need it most," he said.

Hard to tell if Obamacare will make difference

In less than a year's time, full implementation of the federal Affordable Health
Care Act -- or Obamacare, as it's known -- is meant to begin addressing ever
rising health care costs for all US residents.

Administrators at public agencies who have seen rising costs for years said they
hope it helps. Whether it will is harder to know.

"We know millions more low-income residents in California will have access to
care," said Farrah McDaid-Ting, associate legislative representative with the
California Association of Counties. "For everybody else, it's not clear what the
effect will be."

Part of the uncertainty, she said, is health care costs, like gas prices, don't
follow other market indicators like inflation or the consumer price index. So
even if more people are paying into the system, it's not clear costs will
actually come down, she said.

Many public employees and the agencies they work for buy insurance through the
California Public Employees Retirement System.

A system spokesman, Bill Madison, said as Obamacare implementation goes in
during the next 10 months, CalPERS is also working on insurance adjustments to
lower its own costs.

The main thrust of those adjustments is toward what's called accountable, or
integrated care, where an insurer, doctor and hospital are all in the same
place, encouraging efficiency and discouraging disputes, Madison said.

"What we've always tried to do is negotiate the best and lowest rates possible
for our members," he said. "Our providers face those same sort of increases in
costs."

CONTACT Rob Parsons at rparsons@appealdemocrat.com or 749-4785. Find him on
Facebook at /ADcrimebeat or on Twitter at @ADcrimebeat.

___ (c)2013 the Appeal-Democrat (Marysville, Calif.) Visit the Appeal-Democrat
(Marysville, Calif.) at www.appeal-democrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130303-MY-Health-insurance
-hikes-pose-challenge-for-public-agencies-0303-20130303

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MY


                         Copyright 2013 Appeal-Democrat


                              439 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              National Underwriter
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                               September 7, 2009

Dear Mr. President. . .

BYLINE: BY JACK BOBO

SECTION: OPINION; Final Say; To The Point Pg. 42

LENGTH: 980 words


I am writing in response to your request for "fishy" information on healthcare.
By way of introduction I should reveal a bit about my background and
relationship to this issue.

I am old enough (85) to remember what life was like prior to the advent of
widely available health insurance.  I can still recall the difficulty my parents
had paying for my appendectomy in 1934 and my brother's tonsillectomy in 1935.
My father worked for a large interstate company and belonged to a powerful union
-- but neither provided health insurance.

When I met my wife Gladys, I became aware of the tragedies that had struck her
family because of medical expenses.  Her brother developed a chronic and
ultimately fatal illness at the tail end of the 1930s.  The cost of surgery and
around-the-clock oxygen tent and other services ruined my father-in-law
financially, and to a degree physically.  He was a successful homebuilder, but
because he could not pay both medical bills and mortgage payments he lost three
houses to foreclosure.  He belonged to a strong union, but it offered no health
insurance.

I am experienced enough in the health insurance business (53 years) to know what
happened to change all this.  Employer-provided health insurance got its first
big boost during World War II when businesses were subjected to very high
corporate taxes.  As an alternative to paying the higher taxes, large companies
offered tax-deductible health insurance to their employees.  To be competitive
for labor during and after the war, the practice spread among major companies.
But small business was still left out of the loop.

It was not until the late 1940s and 1950s that tens of thousands of insurance
agents, like me, began knocking on the doors of small businesses to tell them
about health insurance products that had been developed for them.  Such plans
helped our smaller enterprises to be competitive for labor while relieving
millions of American families of the fear associated with medical costs.  It was
a highly competitive market, which prevented companies from raising rates beyond
reasonableness.  All in all, it was a most successful venture benefiting
everyone involved.  In fact, it was so successful that today some groups have
raised access to health insurance to a "right." It is, I believe, a great
testimony to the health insurance industry that so many today are not subject to
the financial pressures of medical expenses.

But I also observed that as health insurance became firmly implanted in our
culture, things began to change.  Pressure groups began to lobby for mandated
coverages that at first were optional.  As these groups succeeded, choices
available to businesses and individuals, as to coverage, became fewer.  Covering
those conditions, some of which were not even insurable risks, caused premiums
to rise for everyone.

In 1965, President Johnson signed the act creating Medicare, a very good thing
for senior citizens.  However, it has created problems for private insurance
that have not always been acknowledged.  Medicare reimburses hospitals and
professionals on a formula it has devised rather than paying billed charges in
full.  The formula excludes certain costs from their payment schedule, so
reimbursement is always lower than billed charges.  The fact that such charges
are excluded from Medicare payments does not mean that the costs go away.  No,
Mr. President, those unpaid costs are shifted to those with private insurance or
no insurance, and that is the primary reason you cannot have a public option
parallel to private plans.

In 1977 another significant event occurred that would have a profound effect on
the future cost of healthcare and the related cost of financing it (health
insurance).  Lawyer Van Osteen fought all the way to the Supreme Court to win
the right for lawyers and other professionals to advertise.  Slowly at first,
but gaining momentum every year, trial lawyers have been laying a minefield over
our healthcare delivery system.  Every night we are bombarded with TV ads
promoting lawsuits against healthcare providers.  The right to seek redress in
the courts for injury is an important right -- but predatory lawyers are
endangering that right.

The result of this activity has been the rise in the practice of "defensive
medicine." Healthcare providers have to protect themselves from lawsuits by
ordering all tests or procedures that might conceivably have a bearing on a
patient's condition.  Such tests, often unnecessary, add substantially to the
cost of healthcare and insurance.  When I started selling health insurance 53
years ago, the cost of medical malpractice insurance for a typical doctor was
about $ 800 a year.  Today many doctors pay over $ 100,000 for coverage and some
specialties pay much more.  Guess who pays for that, Mr. President?

So what is "fuzzy" in the dialogue being waged on healthcare?  The main problem
with healthcare today is its costs, and the effect that has on its financing
mechanism (health insurance).  I find it fuzzy that no one in your
administration is addressing real cost factors.  I realized that trial lawyers
are an important part of your political base, but protecting them seems a high
price to pay for allowing them to hold our healthcare system hostage.  I do not
believe that even tort reform can solve this mess.  Perhaps it is time to
consider an entirely new approach to compensating people who may be injured by
the system -- an approach that eliminates variances in rewards by juries and the
cost of litigation.  That would be real change, Mr. President.

I also find the rhetoric demonizing the health insurance industry "fuzzy" and
far from reality.  Mr. President, demonizing one group in order to rally support
from others is an old trick, and one that historically has produced some very
sad results.  That is worse than "fishy" -- it is downright scary.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 The National Underwriter Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              440 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            June 24, 2009 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

INSURANCE PROFITEERING IS TAXATION WITH REPRESENTATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 577 words


Dear Editor: Americans pay a huge tax to the state-protected corporate health
insurance industry in the obscene premiums included in the cost of everything
made, purchased and consumed.

The health insurance companies' premiums even include the cost of health care
for their own people -- top-notch care to the fat cats running the scam.

And care provided by hospitals and doctors (for those still lucky enough to
receive it) includes the large cost of providing their staff health insurance
coverage. Is this insane?

Yes, and it is time to end this private tax profiteering and provide
single-payer universal health care, and ax the insurance cost from what is
purchased at home and is hard to sell competitively abroad.

From the health insurance profiteers, the American people are getting taxation
without representation.

And don't waste time in consideration of suing the powerful health insurance
empire. However, the insurance industry is very happy to provide high-cost
malpractice insurance so that it can make money off doctors and hospitals that
can be sued.

You may not be able to afford your own health care, but you are going to be
paying for everyone else who is able to get it.

Sam Osborne West Branch, Iowa

Dentists should be required to serve Medicaid patients

Dear Editor: After reading Jane DeSoto's letter regarding Medicaid-funded oral
health care, I was disappointed, not surprised, to see that nothing has changed
since I last wrote about the subject over 10 years ago.

Dentists continue to have a free pass on limiting access to Medicaid patients in
their practice. Low reimbursement of course is the reason. Not withstanding the
low reimbursement, it appeared to me then and still does that our legislators
and/or state government licensing board need to make it a requirement that all
providers of oral health care, dentists and their subspecialists alike, should
be required to have at least 20 percent or more of their practice consist of
Medicaid patients in order to obtain or have their license be renewed.

Minnesota has a requirement similar to this and it has been effective in
providing the service this segment of our public deserves. If our sister state
can do it, there is absolutely not excuse why Wisconsin can not. Write your
legislators and demand that they do something about this.

Ernie Pellegrino MD Middleton

Save the little farmers

Dear Editor: Doesn't it make sense that these horrid outbreaks of food-borne
illnesses have been insignificant until the creation of factory farms?

I love the farmers that bring us food at the Farmers' Market. They certainly
don't need all these ridiculous big corporate regulations that would be place on
them under H.R. 875, the Food Safety Modernization Act, which Congress is now
considering. Please save the little guys!

Laureen Chagnon Madison

Ill people punished in the name of profit

Dear Editor: The Confessions of a Money Manager column by Ray Unger on the Cap
Times website on June 19 talked about "the cloud overhanging health care
stocks." A bigger concern is the special interests guiding our health care
policies.

Insurance companies by their nature must avoid the sick and deny payments for
expensive procedures since their only goal is profit at the expense of patients,
who are at their mercy. Profit is made by insuring the healthy, and cherry
picking those who they will insure. Punishing the ill in the name of profit is
inhumane and a disgrace.

Sonja Moskalik Madison

- 6/24/2009 5:29 am

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              441 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             April 16, 1993, Friday

So you thought 'reform' meant lower health costs?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 10

LENGTH: 424 words


The Clinton administration reluctantly confirms that a value-added tax is being
considered to finance health-care reform. No final decision has been made, they
insist.

However, the mere fact that such a tax is being considered - the value-added tax
has the potential of raising tens of billions in revenue - shows that what is
being called "reform" is going to cost plenty. So, if you thought the idea was
to "lower the cost" of health care, you can wake up now. If any cost is lowered,
it won't be that to the taxpayers.

For a long time Mr. Clinton and others did seem to be aiming at lower costs.
There's been talk about a basic health-insurance policy that would be
"affordable." There was talk of "managed competition," in which employer and
other groups would use economic clout to "bargain" with doctors, hospitals and
other health-care providers to get their charges down. There were hints that to
keep costs from rising while the "reform" is getting under way, there might be
temporary price controls - limits on physicians' fees and hospital bills and so
on.

But it should have been clear from the beginning that if more people are going
to get health insurance coverage - and there are some 37 million without it now
- somebody would have to pay for it. The planners just haven't said much about
that, until now.

Not all of the people without health-insurance coverage are low- income. But,
under the Clinton plan, the taxpayers will be paying the approximate equivalent
of the employer's share of the premiums for them - as well as the total cost for
those who are low-income but not eligible for Medicaid, which is already
provided by taxpayers.

This is bound to raise the total cost of health care in the country, even if
lowers the cost for some individuals. And once a convenient system for raising
revenue is in place, you can be sure that the politicians will "give" voters
additional benefits from time to time, raising the total cost even more, as they
have in every other program where they have gained control of the public's
money.

One reason why we think the value-added tax is a particularly dangerous source
of revenue for health care is that, once in place, it would be so easy for
politicians to raise it. It's a hidden tax - hidden in the final price of a
product.

But at least one mask is off now, and we can face the fact that the Clinton
health-care "reform" isn't about reducing health care costs so much as it is
about finding new ways to pay for higher costs. Is that really what the people
want?

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH931190169

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              442 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           February 26, 2009 Thursday
                                  All Editions

A COSTLY BENEFIT

SECTION: Pg. A6

LENGTH: 399 words


Maine state employees enjoy some of the best health insurance benefits available
in these fiscally challenging times. No one begrudges those state workers having
such great coverage. In fact, the rest of us are better off when more people
have adequate access to low cost, quality health care.

But the health insurance benefits that are part of the compensation package for
state workers come at a cost. With the state struggling to ratchet down expenses
in the face of one of the worst recessions in generations, state workers should
pick up a greater share of the cost of that benefit.

Currently, the state pays the entire premium for employees who have single
health insurance coverage, and a significant portion of the premium for couples
and families. Under the governor's budget for 2010-2011 - a budget that faces an
$838 million gap - single employees making more than $50,000 a year would pick
up 5 percent of the cost of health insurance premiums, or about $400 a year.
Single state employees making $90,000 or more would pick up 10 percent of the
premium cost, or about $810.

State employees at a public hearing on the proposed change argued that they
could make more money in the private sector, and that good benefits are what
make working for the state attractive. That is true. Traditionally, government
jobs, and jobs in public education, did not come with top salaries, and so
employers sweetened the deal with good benefits.

But in recent decades, the cost of health care coverage changed from being a
small fraction of the compensation package to as much as 30 percent or more. The
governor's budget plan could have spread the cost of insurance across the board,
but it is a much more equitable approach to ask the higher earners to bear the
burden.

Chancellor Richard Pattenaude has said the University of Maine System may have
to adjust the share of the premium employees pay as the system works to reduce
its costs. Public school systems around the state, as they negotiate new
contracts with faculty, also should consider having employees pick up more of
the cost of premiums.

If the Obama administration is successful in reforming the health insurance and
health care systems nationally, and moves health insurance away from an
employer-based payer, private and public employees will be better off. But until
then, health insurance premiums are good places to look for savings.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                              443 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday

Money issues drive health care reform

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 663 words


Health care reform, as being discussed today, would require widespread changes
in how Americans purchase and pay for health care. The topic involves complex
issues, with deep consequences for families, businesses, health care providers
and insurance companies. The results will be important for people presently with
or without health insurance. The move to health care reform has powerful
political and economic implications nationally and for North Dakota
specifically. Today, the Tribune begins a series of four editorials focused on
health care reform. They will address the need for reform, containing health
care costs, paying for health care reform and what that reform should be.

q q

The quality of health care in the United States ranks among the best in the
world. No one wants that to change. And 70 percent of the U.S. population has
health insurance - a strong, if not overwhelming, number. For many of those
people, the health insurance and care systems work.

Quality concerns are not driving health care reform, increasing costs and lack
of access are.

As an industry, health care represents 16 percent of the nation's economy, three
times as big an impact as in 1965. To continue to purchase coverage, people and
businesses have increased their deductibles and co-pays, and reduced coverage.
The trend shows no sign of leveling off. The cost of health insurance has grown
faster than wages, absorbing a larger and larger share of a family's income.

An average American family spends about 9 percent of its income, or $4,400 a
year, on private health insurance. But the cost of health care for a typical
American family runs about $15,000, and that's about $6,500 more than families
in other nations with a similar standard of living.

Growing costs also are being felt in the federal Medicaid and Medicare programs,
requiring a larger share of the taxpayers' dollar.

Recent efforts to control costs - HMOs and managed care - had only limited
success. And programs encouraging healthier lifestyles have yet to pay off in
fewer visits to doctors, clinics and hospitals.

What we are doing now isn't working to control costs.

The solution will not be one thing, but a combination of incentives, regulations
and market forces. And Congress must be absolutely convinced of the
effectiveness of cost containment strategies. The relationship between proposed
reform and realistic results must be clear. After all, we are talking about
people's livelihood and lives. When it comes to being too big to fail, health
care stands at the top, at least in the eyes of the patients and their families.

For those people who do have good health insurance, the idea of major health
care reform isn't reassuring. Talk so far suggests the result will cost more and
be increasingly restrictive. That's no good. Health care needs to continue to
work for the many who have paid for quality care and received it. Reform needs
to be more strategic than pervasive.

There are between 30 million and 50 million Americans without health care,
depending upon who's counting. Those people who are working and can't afford
health care, need to be able to get it. Those people who can't work or cannot
find work, need to be able to get it. The final solution may require that
everyone purchase some kind of health insurance, like all car and truck owners
are required to purchase insurance.

People without health insurance cost people with health insurance about $1,800 a
year - the insured pick up the tab for the uninsured.

Cost and access are cause for health care reform. Congress and the Obama
administration are in contentious discussion over what that reform should look
like. The president pushed for legislation to be complete by the August recess.
Frankly, there are too many questions unanswered for that to happen. It's more
important for health care reform to be done right, than for it to be done
quickly. It needs be the kind of reform that has substantive support from
Republicans and Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2009 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              444 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday

Money issues drive health reform

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 663 words


Health care reform, as being discussed today, would require widespread changes
in how Americans purchase and pay for health care. The topic involves complex
issues, with deep consequences for families, businesses, health care providers
and insurance companies. The results will be important for people presently with
or without health insurance. The move to health care reform has powerful
political and economic implications nationally and for North Dakota
specifically. Today, the Tribune begins a series of four editorials focused on
health care reform. They will address the need for reform, containing health
care costs, paying for health care reform and what that reform should be.

q q

The quality of health care in the United States ranks among the best in the
world. No one wants that to change. And 70 percent of the U.S. population has
health insurance - a strong, if not overwhelming, number. For many of those
people, the health insurance and care systems work.

Quality concerns are not driving health care reform, increasing costs and lack
of access are.

As an industry, health care represents 16 percent of the nation's economy, three
times as big an impact as in 1965. To continue to purchase coverage, people and
businesses have increased their deductibles and co-pays, and reduced coverage.
The trend shows no sign of leveling off. The cost of health insurance has grown
faster than wages, absorbing a larger and larger share of a family's income.

An average American family spends about 9 percent of its income, or $4,400 a
year, on private health insurance. But the cost of health care for a typical
American family runs about $15,000, and that's about $6,500 more than families
in other nations with a similar standard of living.

Growing costs also are being felt in the federal Medicaid and Medicare programs,
requiring a larger share of the taxpayers' dollar.

Recent efforts to control costs - HMOs and managed care - had only limited
success. And programs encouraging healthier lifestyles have yet to pay off in
fewer visits to doctors, clinics and hospitals.

What we are doing now isn't working to control costs.

The solution will not be one thing, but a combination of incentives, regulations
and market forces. And Congress must be absolutely convinced of the
effectiveness of cost containment strategies. The relationship between proposed
reform and realistic results must be clear. After all, we are talking about
people's livelihood and lives. When it comes to being too big to fail, health
care stands at the top, at least in the eyes of the patients and their families.

For those people who do have good health insurance, the idea of major health
care reform isn't reassuring. Talk so far suggests the result will cost more and
be increasingly restrictive. That's no good. Health care needs to continue to
work for the many who have paid for quality care and received it. Reform needs
to be more strategic than pervasive.

There are between 30 million and 50 million Americans without health care,
depending upon who's counting. Those people who are working and can't afford
health care, need to be able to get it. Those people who can't work or cannot
find work, need to be able to get it. The final solution may require that
everyone purchase some kind of health insurance, like all car and truck owners
are required to purchase insurance.

People without health insurance cost people with health insurance about $1,800 a
year - the insured pick up the tab for the uninsured.

Cost and access are cause for health care reform. Congress and the Obama
administration are in contentious discussion over what that reform should look
like. The president pushed for legislation to be complete by the August recess.
Frankly, there are too many questions unanswered for that to happen. It's more
important for health care reform to be done right, than for it to be done
quickly. It needs be the kind of reform that has substantive support from
Republicans and Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2009 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              445 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             April 13, 1992 Monday

Insurers warn of care costs blowout Health 'chaos looms'

BYLINE: STEPHEN SEALEY

LENGTH: 418 words


CANBERRA: Australia's health system faced collapse because of the high cost of
care for the elderly, the health insurance industry warned yesterday.

The Australian Health Insurance Association said people should be encouraged to
save for their health needs in retirement.

It said the cost to working people of funding health care for the elderly could
double in the next 40 years.

The AHIA claimed the Medicare system was unsustainable and needed urgent reform
to salvage the health system.

It said the quality of health care would deteriorate and taxes would have to be
increased if Medicare was not reformed.

The group's warning comes on the eve of a key meeting of Federal and State
health ministers in Sydney this week.

AHIA chief executive Mr Russell Schneider said Australia faced "chaos in health
care within 10 years".

He said health insurance was under the same pressure which had forced
Australians to start saving more for their retirement.

"When the age pension became unaffordable in the long-term, the Government found
new ways of encouraging superannuation," Mr Schneider said. "Health insurance is
under exactly the same pressures.

"If we want to have a system that works into the future we must encourage people
to save during their working lives for their health needs in retirement."

The AHIA called for the introduction of a tax rebate to partially offset the
costs of private health insurance.

It wants the Government to open up medical insurance to competition and allow a
greater share of health insurance to be met by the private sector.

Mr Schneider said 10 per cent of people with private health insurance were aged
over 65 but they accounted for about 40 per cent of the costs.

He said one way of changing the system would be for superannuation funds to put
away part of the funds for future health care costs.

The Australian Hospital Association said yesterday the Government was likely to
ignore major problems in the hospital Medicare system and offer only "band-aid"
solutions.

It called for an increase in health insurance because of the number of people
dropping out of private schemes.

AHA national director Mr Peter Baulderstone said the Health Minister, Mr Howe,
would try to "fob off" the States at this week's meeting.

"If we don't get some positive sign from the health ministers' conference that
Mr Howe is going to implement some meaningful structural change to hospital
Medicare, then we will take further action," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1992 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              446 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             April 13, 1992 Monday

Insurers warn of care costs blowout Health 'chaos looms'

BYLINE: STEPHEN SEALEY

LENGTH: 418 words


CANBERRA: Australia's health system faced collapse because of the high cost of
care for the elderly, the health insurance industry warned yesterday.

The Australian Health Insurance Association said people should be encouraged to
save for their health needs in retirement.

It said the cost to working people of funding health care for the elderly could
double in the next 40 years.

The AHIA claimed the Medicare system was unsustainable and needed urgent reform
to salvage the health system.

It said the quality of health care would deteriorate and taxes would have to be
increased if Medicare was not reformed.

The group's warning comes on the eve of a key meeting of Federal and State
health ministers in Sydney this week.

AHIA chief executive Mr Russell Schneider said Australia faced "chaos in health
care within 10 years".

He said health insurance was under the same pressure which had forced
Australians to start saving more for their retirement.

"When the age pension became unaffordable in the long-term, the Government found
new ways of encouraging superannuation," Mr Schneider said. "Health insurance is
under exactly the same pressures.

"If we want to have a system that works into the future we must encourage people
to save during their working lives for their health needs in retirement."

The AHIA called for the introduction of a tax rebate to partially offset the
costs of private health insurance.

It wants the Government to open up medical insurance to competition and allow a
greater share of health insurance to be met by the private sector.

Mr Schneider said 10 per cent of people with private health insurance were aged
over 65 but they accounted for about 40 per cent of the costs.

He said one way of changing the system would be for superannuation funds to put
away part of the funds for future health care costs.

The Australian Hospital Association said yesterday the Government was likely to
ignore major problems in the hospital Medicare system and offer only "band-aid"
solutions.

It called for an increase in health insurance because of the number of people
dropping out of private schemes.

AHA national director Mr Peter Baulderstone said the Health Minister, Mr Howe,
would try to "fob off" the States at this week's meeting.

"If we don't get some positive sign from the health ministers' conference that
Mr Howe is going to implement some meaningful structural change to hospital
Medicare, then we will take further action," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1992 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              447 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

Aviva announces premium rise;
Aviva Prices

LENGTH: 435 words



HIGHLIGHT: For the fourth time in a little over a year, private health insurer,
Aviva Health, is to increase its premiums


For the fourth time in a little over a year, private health insurer, Aviva
Health, is to increase its premiums

The holders of most of Aviva's health plans will see a 1.7pc rise in prices with
the company citing price inflation as the reason behind the latest rise.

It also blamed the "significant health insurance levy increase of approximately
40pc" and said that changes to the age related tax credit system was also a
contributory factor.

At the beginning of the year the Minister for Health Dr James Reilly announced a
40pc increase in the Government levy on private health insurance. The company
announced a 15pc increase that took effect last month and a further 9pc increase
last August. Another price hike of 14pc was announced just over a year ago in
March of last year. Sean Egan, Chief Executive of Aviva, last month laid some of
the blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the
costing of private beds in public hospitals. Speaking at the National Healthcare
Conference, he said the current approach - where the Minister sets bed charges -
is a contributory factor to rising health insurance premiums. The Aviva Chief
Executive has proposed that the current system should be replaced by one where
health insurers and hospitals directly negotiate the cost of beds. Mr Egan said
direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals would lead to cost savings
which in turn could be passed onto health insurance customers, adding that the
proposal was in line with the Minister's own Universal Health Insurance policy.
"We need reform fast to make private health insurance more affordable. Without
reform that can improve affordability, we will not have the well-functioning and
competitive health insurance market necessary to fund our health service and to
make the introduction of Universal Health Insurance possible. Instead of
remaining wedded to old measures which are hampering affordability, we should
quickly move to introduce new measures that can bring costs down. The recent
proposal to re-designate private beds in public hospitals is an old style
measure which will drive up bed charges for private patients and further
undermine the affordability of private health insurance. Aviva Health believes
we should now move to allow private insurers negotiate bed charges with each
individual hospital. This would represent a move away from the old system where
the Minister applies a universal bed charge applicable to all public hospitals.
Direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals enhance the prospects of
reducing health costs and containing premiums," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              448 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

Aviva announces premium rise;
Aviva Prices

LENGTH: 435 words



HIGHLIGHT: For the fourth time in a little over a year, private health insurer,
Aviva Health, is to increase its premiums


For the fourth time in a little over a year, private health insurer, Aviva
Health, is to increase its premiums

The holders of most of Aviva's health plans will see a 1.7pc rise in prices with
the company citing price inflation as the reason behind the latest rise.

It also blamed the "significant health insurance levy increase of approximately
40pc" and said that changes to the age related tax credit system was also a
contributory factor.

At the beginning of the year the Minister for Health Dr James Reilly announced a
40pc increase in the Government levy on private health insurance. The company
announced a 15pc increase that took effect last month and a further 9pc increase
last August. Another price hike of 14pc was announced just over a year ago in
March of last year. Sean Egan, Chief Executive of Aviva, last month laid some of
the blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the
costing of private beds in public hospitals. Speaking at the National Healthcare
Conference, he said the current approach - where the Minister sets bed charges -
is a contributory factor to rising health insurance premiums. The Aviva Chief
Executive has proposed that the current system should be replaced by one where
health insurers and hospitals directly negotiate the cost of beds. Mr Egan said
direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals would lead to cost savings
which in turn could be passed onto health insurance customers, adding that the
proposal was in line with the Minister's own Universal Health Insurance policy.
"We need reform fast to make private health insurance more affordable. Without
reform that can improve affordability, we will not have the well-functioning and
competitive health insurance market necessary to fund our health service and to
make the introduction of Universal Health Insurance possible. Instead of
remaining wedded to old measures which are hampering affordability, we should
quickly move to introduce new measures that can bring costs down. The recent
proposal to re-designate private beds in public hospitals is an old style
measure which will drive up bed charges for private patients and further
undermine the affordability of private health insurance. Aviva Health believes
we should now move to allow private insurers negotiate bed charges with each
individual hospital. This would represent a move away from the old system where
the Minister applies a universal bed charge applicable to all public hospitals.
Direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals enhance the prospects of
reducing health costs and containing premiums," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              449 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

Aviva announces premium rise;
Aviva Prices

LENGTH: 435 words



HIGHLIGHT: For the fourth time in a little over a year, private health insurer,
Aviva Health, is to increase its premiums


For the fourth time in a little over a year, private health insurer, Aviva
Health, is to increase its premiums

The holders of most of Aviva's health plans will see a 1.7pc rise in prices with
the company citing price inflation as the reason behind the latest rise.

It also blamed the "significant health insurance levy increase of approximately
40pc" and said that changes to the age related tax credit system was also a
contributory factor.

At the beginning of the year the Minister for Health Dr James Reilly announced a
40pc increase in the Government levy on private health insurance. The company
announced a 15pc increase that took effect last month and a further 9pc increase
last August. Another price hike of 14pc was announced just over a year ago in
March of last year. Sean Egan, Chief Executive of Aviva, last month laid some of
the blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the
costing of private beds in public hospitals. Speaking at the National Healthcare
Conference, he said the current approach - where the Minister sets bed charges -
is a contributory factor to rising health insurance premiums. The Aviva Chief
Executive has proposed that the current system should be replaced by one where
health insurers and hospitals directly negotiate the cost of beds. Mr Egan said
direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals would lead to cost savings
which in turn could be passed onto health insurance customers, adding that the
proposal was in line with the Minister's own Universal Health Insurance policy.
"We need reform fast to make private health insurance more affordable. Without
reform that can improve affordability, we will not have the well-functioning and
competitive health insurance market necessary to fund our health service and to
make the introduction of Universal Health Insurance possible. Instead of
remaining wedded to old measures which are hampering affordability, we should
quickly move to introduce new measures that can bring costs down. The recent
proposal to re-designate private beds in public hospitals is an old style
measure which will drive up bed charges for private patients and further
undermine the affordability of private health insurance. Aviva Health believes
we should now move to allow private insurers negotiate bed charges with each
individual hospital. This would represent a move away from the old system where
the Minister applies a universal bed charge applicable to all public hospitals.
Direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals enhance the prospects of
reducing health costs and containing premiums," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              450 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

Aviva announces premium rise;
Aviva Prices

LENGTH: 435 words



HIGHLIGHT: For the fourth time in a little over a year, private health insurer,
Aviva Health, is to increase its premiums


For the fourth time in a little over a year, private health insurer, Aviva
Health, is to increase its premiums

The holders of most of Aviva's health plans will see a 1.7pc rise in prices with
the company citing price inflation as the reason behind the latest rise.

It also blamed the "significant health insurance levy increase of approximately
40pc" and said that changes to the age related tax credit system was also a
contributory factor.

At the beginning of the year the Minister for Health Dr James Reilly announced a
40pc increase in the Government levy on private health insurance. The company
announced a 15pc increase that took effect last month and a further 9pc increase
last August. Another price hike of 14pc was announced just over a year ago in
March of last year. Sean Egan, Chief Executive of Aviva, last month laid some of
the blame for the high cost of health cover on the Minister's changes to the
costing of private beds in public hospitals. Speaking at the National Healthcare
Conference, he said the current approach - where the Minister sets bed charges -
is a contributory factor to rising health insurance premiums. The Aviva Chief
Executive has proposed that the current system should be replaced by one where
health insurers and hospitals directly negotiate the cost of beds. Mr Egan said
direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals would lead to cost savings
which in turn could be passed onto health insurance customers, adding that the
proposal was in line with the Minister's own Universal Health Insurance policy.
"We need reform fast to make private health insurance more affordable. Without
reform that can improve affordability, we will not have the well-functioning and
competitive health insurance market necessary to fund our health service and to
make the introduction of Universal Health Insurance possible. Instead of
remaining wedded to old measures which are hampering affordability, we should
quickly move to introduce new measures that can bring costs down. The recent
proposal to re-designate private beds in public hospitals is an old style
measure which will drive up bed charges for private patients and further
undermine the affordability of private health insurance. Aviva Health believes
we should now move to allow private insurers negotiate bed charges with each
individual hospital. This would represent a move away from the old system where
the Minister applies a universal bed charge applicable to all public hospitals.
Direct negotiations between insurers and hospitals enhance the prospects of
reducing health costs and containing premiums," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            June 23, 2004 Wednesday
                                  EAST EDITION

BENEFIT BALANCE;
SCHOOLS TRY TO BLUNT IMPACT OF RISING HEALTH COSTS

BYLINE: MARY NIEDERBERGER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. EZ-1

LENGTH: 1515 words


School boards throughout the region share a major problem contributing to tax
increases as they adopt 2004-05 budgets.

Directors in nearly every district have been trimming in other budget areas or
raising taxes to pay employee health insurance premiums that continue to
increase at double digit rates.

"You can't continue to absorb these kinds of costs," said Ken Gorton, Bethel
Park's finance and operations director, whose comment was echoed by school
finance officials throughout the area.

Among districts surveyed in Allegheny County, the increases range from 15
percent to 36 percent.

In Bethel Park, Gorton said the nearly 20 percent increase this year, coming
atop other increases the previous two, has created a 75 percent increase in
health care costs for the district in three years.

In Westmoreland County, district health care costs have risen as much as 49
percent, and in many cases, these increases come on the heels of other hefty
jumps in the past two years.

The situation isn't limited to school districts. But employers in private
industry have been passing some increased costs to employees via higher co-pay
contributions to health insurance premiums. School districts bound by labor
contracts can't impose employee contributions toward health insurance premiums.

"There's nothing that the school boards can do. For the length of their contract
they are committed to providing whatever was negotiated," said Wayne Smith,
assistant executive director for insurance services for the Pennsylvania School
Boards Association .

Both school and union officials expect employee contributions toward health care
to be on the table during the next round of contract negotiations.

Part of the reason for the steep increases in Allegheny County districts has
been the deficit experienced in recent years by the Allegheny County Schools
Health Insurance Consortium, through which most of the county's school districts
jointly purchase their insurance.

Because the deficit occurred at the same time health care costs have soared,
premium costs have spiked dramatically in the past several years.

A similar situation exists in Westmoreland County where the consortium had been
able, in recent years, to cover increased costs through subsidies from its fund
balance. But that surplus has run nearly dry.

However, steady increases in the costs charged by health care providers loom as
the major factor for the spikes in health insurance premiums.

That's according to Walt Michalski, chairman of the Allegheny County Schools
Health Care Consortium's 22 trustees and also a staff representative and health
care advisor for the Pennsylvania Federation of Teachers.

Also contributing to higher health care costs for schools have been early
retirement packages offered to get school employees to wrap up their careers.

"It's those folks who drive the costs up because they need more health care,"
said Gwen Walker, director of fiscal services for the Keystone Oaks School
District.

Districts such as Mt. Lebanon and Bethel Park chose to raise taxes to fund
increased health insurance and other costs.

But that's a luxury not afforded to the Duquesne City School District, which is
designated as financially distressed and under the direction of a
state-appointed board of control.

The 15 percent increase in Duquesne's health insurance costs requires an
additional $400,000 in the district's $12 million budget. That would take a tax
increase of 5 mills.

In Westmoreland County, the Franklin Regional School District will see a 49
percent rise in health care costs. That amounts to a $1.6 million increase and a
total health insurance cost of around $4.5 million, business director Dan Watson
said.

The district's preliminary budget calls for a 6.5-mill increase, of which 5
mills would go toward health insurance.

"We plan on bringing this [figure] down by looking at some potential reductions
in some areas," he said.

Similarly, the Hempfield Area School District is set for a 46.5 percent
increase.

Acting business manager Allison Willis said district officials had budgeted for
a 25 percent increase. It will take 2 additional mills of taxes or about $1
million to fund the increase, he said.

The large increases in Westmoreland County are the result of a dwindling fund
balance for the health insurance consortium that serves those districts.

The consortium had been using money from its fund balance to offset cost
increases in past years. Now it has to increase the rates it charges districts
in order to replenish the fund balance, Willis said.

Some school officials worry that taxpayers will think the current round of tax
increases in districts are the result of poor management.

"But when you face a 26 percent increase and hundreds of thousands of dollars
and that represents half of a budget increase, it looks like you are not
managing well," Quaker Valley Superintendent Gerard Longo said.

His is one of the few local school districts where employees pay part of the
cost of their health insurance, thanks to a contract negotiated four years ago.

"We've done more than anybody to get this under control. Still we are faced with
a $701,000 increase."

Longo also said he has personally realized the value of health insurance since
being diagnosed with lymphoma several years ago. "I am currently doing OK, but
the cost of my treatments would have bankrupt my family if we did not have
insurance."

Claims for cancer treatments, cardiac bypass surgery and transplant surgeries
are among the highest claims paid by the Allegheny County Schools Health
Insurance Consortium, chairman Michalski said.

The Allegheny County Health Care Consortium offers health insurance through
Highmark networks, but is self-insured and paysits own claims. It covers 18,000
employees and 45,000 people.

The consortium has debated whether to carry underwriters insurance for
catastrophic claims, Michalski said. But in recent years, the trustees have
found that paying the claims costs about the same as the premium on an insurance
policy.

As a union contract negotiator, Michaski said he expects school district
officials to raise co-payments on premiums as a negotiation issue in upcoming
contracts.

"It's up everywhere where there are negotiations and we expect it to be on the
table everywhere we go."

Historically, school employees have not paid anything toward their health care
because unions have negotiated that.

But with health insurance costs rising faster than any other cost incurred by
school districts, it's expected that premium co-payments will be an issue for
contract negotiations.

Michalski argues that forcing school employees to share the costs isn't the
answer. "Passing on the costs whether half or 5 percent doesn't do anything to
control the costs. Labor and management should join together to fight these
costs in health care."

The consortium, he said, is working on a variety of efforts to cut costs,
including making changes to its co-payments on office visits and prescriptions.

The changes will require people who see a specialist to pay a $15 co-pay when
they now pay nothing.

For prescription drugs, the changes will offer lower costs to members who accept
generic drugs and mail order their prescription drugs in larger numbers,
Michalski said.

He said union leaders have led the charge in making changes to the prescription
drug components of benefits plans rather than seeing members make payments
toward their premiums.

These changes can be imposed immediately on employees in districts where
contract wording states that employees will receive the health plan that is
offered by the consortium.

But contracts written to spell out specific benefits that employees will receive
cannot be changed unless the changes are negotiated.

The consortium also is auditing the charges against the programs to make sure it
is paying only for services charged and that the school districts have enrolled
in their health plans only those who should be included.

The auditors are also checking to make sure that claims by people over age 65
are being charged to Medicare and not to the consortium plan.

Another cost-saving goal of the program is to have just one plan offered
eventually by the consortium and employees of all districts that are part of the
consortium enrolled in that plan.

All Allegheny County school districts except North Allegheny and Pittsburgh are
members of the consortium.

There are various plans offered now by the consortium, and some school districts
modify those plans as well.

Perhaps the most cost-saving, and life-saving, effort undertaken by the
consortium is the development of a wellness program that would offer nutrition,
exercise and preventative medical advice to all of its members.

Highmark and pharmaceutical companies are working with consortium officials on
this.

Michalski said the program could offer high blood pressure screenings to
identify people at risk for strokes and heart attacks and do osteoporosis
screenings.

The goal is to have employees lead healthier lives, to provide support, services
and programming and change their lifestyles and result in fewer claims in the
future.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mary Niederberger can be reached at mniederberger@post-gazettecom or
412-851-1866.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Danial Marsula/Post-Gazette

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              452 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            January 16, 2009 Friday
                                  All Editions

State workers should share pain

SECTION: Pg. A9

LENGTH: 638 words


The questions asked in this week's ClickBack feature focused on Gov. Baldacci's
plan to close the gap in the next two-year budget. One of the questions was
whether state employees should pay more for their health insurance.

Currently, the state picks up the entire cost of an individual's health
insurance premium. State employees pay a portion of the premium if they are on
the family plan. Under Baldacci's proposal, employees making $50,000 or more
will pay 5 percent of the cost of single coverage, and employees making $90,000
or more would pay 10 percent of the cost of single coverage.

ClickBack also asked whether enough jobs were cut and whether a sales tax
increase should be a part of the fix.

Should state employees pay more for health insurance?

State employees at all pay levels, single or married, should pay a part of their
health insurance, and it should be at least 5 percent. If the cost of insurance
for a family is $14,000 per year, 5 percent is about $13.50 per week. Private
companies, towns and cities have employees share in the cost. As an aside,
school teachers and professors should pay as well.

- LarrySG

Many single state employees, specifically teachers, bear significant insurance
costs. In fact, retired teachers pay 55 percent of their health insurance
premiums.

-- BangorDS

Many employees in the private sector pay part of their health insurance costs.
With the climbing costs of health care insurance, state employees should foot
part of theirs.

- windy2

Of course state employees should have to pay for part of their insurance.
Non-state employees are struggling to make ends meet, many going without health
care, and their tax dollars are going to fully fund the health care costs of
state employees. These Cadillac insurance plans need to be more of a Prius.

- Sunnyside

Of course they should. State benefits equate to approximately an additional 40
percent above wages paid, twice the average level, and wages are higher than
average.

- Yesman

A state employee already pays $373.84 per month or $4,486.08 per year in
premiums to insure his or her spouse and child through the State Employee Health
Plan. That's in addition to a deductible of $200 for individuals and $400 for
families; copays of up to $10 per primary care provider visit and $15 per
specialist visit; and prescription drug copays of $10 for generic drugs and $30
for name-brand drugs.

- Educator

Of course state employees should have to pay for health insurance. If these
well-paid state employees were employed by private enterprise they would pay the
premiums. My wife and I are paying all our health insurance premiums, plus we
pay out of pocket for dental, eye care, drugs and medicines. And we are living
on Social Security and on interest from U.S. Treasury obligations that are
currently paying less than 1 percent.

- RLawrence

Should more state jobs be cut?

Trying to adjust the budget to current conditions is like trying to fix an
airplane while it is in flight. Perhaps it is time for the governor and
Legislature to take a look at its priorities and the role of government. A
random cutting of positions may leave needed services understaffed. But do we
really know what those services are or should be? I think it has been a long
time since there has been a session on setting priorities.

- JanLaux

Should a sales tax increase be part of the fix?

No. All taxes kill growth and job creation. Simple as that.

- vichet

The sales tax base should be expanded, but barring that, I believe a one penny
increase on the sales tax is the least painful way to inject some needed revenue
into our economy. Temporary or not, we need to do it. But, if we do, the hue and
cry will be deafening from the Republicans. It will at least give them something
to do in Augusta during this session. The Ds otherwise might forget they are
there.

-- Sunnyside

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                              453 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 5, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

HEALTH-CARE REFORM STILL SORELY NEEDED

BYLINE: John A. Bromell

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 795 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


Since 1992, the debate over health-care reform has been dominated by two starkly
different views. One group, the health-insurance industry, spent approximately $
100 million on ads designed to create fear regarding the proposed health-reform
legislation put forward by the other group, the Democrats in Congress.

The Health Insurance Association of America, an industry lobby group, made no
health-care proposals of its own. The association's advertisements falsely
accused the Democrats of attempting to "limit choice of doctors" and "ration
health care." What was most ironic about these false accusations was that these
are exactly the trends that have been taking place within private health
insurance plans during the past several years.

The real substantive weakness within the Democrats' health-reform proposal was
the employer mandate. This provision laid the cost of universal health care on
the backs of business, including small businesses that often would not have
survived. The American public saw the dangers in this provision and, although
they desperately wanted health-care security (and still do), they withdrew their
support for the Democrats' proposed reforms.

As an individual who was refused health insurance for seven years, I am
intimately acquainted with the need for health-care security. One health-related
mishap could have devastated my family's savings. But for reforms that create
health-care security to work, the costs must be shared. To ask one segment of
our society to bear these costs d isproportionately is neither fair nor
workable.

Americans for Health Care Access has put together a set of common-sense
principles to guide the health care reform process so it will create universal
access to health care:

Make it illegal for insurance companies to deny health insurance because of
prior medical conditions.

It is basic fairness that individuals not be denied access to a need as
essential as health insurance because of a condition over which they have no
control. This provision may be enacted through the Kennedy-Kassebaum bill now
before the Senate.

Require that providers of health insurance limit the differences in premiums
between individuals with prior medical conditions and individuals with no prior
medical conditions. Without this, the provision above would be meaningless.
Prohibitively high premiums are simply denial of coverage by other means.

Provide a federal tax credit to families and individuals below a certain income
level who demonstrate that they have purchased health insurance.

This tax credit would advance two objectives. It would make health insurance
more affordable; and, in doing so, it would operate as a subsidy to the health
insurance industry by increasing the number of people who purchase health
insurance.

Prohibit health insurance providers from terminating doctors for explaining to a
patient all of his or her health care options. This insidious trend must be
nipped in the bud; to block communication and counseling between doctor and
patient violates the Hippocratic oath.

Preserve the integrity of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This ensures that
the elderly, the poor and the severely disabled will continue to have access to
health care.

Requiring the health-insurance industry to cover a less healthy segment of our
society will certainly increase its cost of doing business, and some of this
undoubtedly will be passed on to the consumer. But if health-care premiums
skyrocket, the American public will grow tired of the health-insurance
industry's lack of good faith in attempting to work within a system of total
health-care security.

The basic mood of the country favors only as much regulatory intervention as is
necessary to achieve the objective of universal access to health care. If the
health-insurance industry's reaction makes this limited regulatory framework
unworkable, public sentiment will shift toward more sweeping changes.

The health-insurance industry will have to look within its own ranks to find
ways to make up for these new costs. There are about 1,500 different health
coverage plans today. It costs a lot of money to advertise these plans and to
pay the salaries of the bureaucrats necessary to administer and determine who
should have access to these plans. Reducing the excessive number of health plans
would reap substantial savings. Therefore, it is reasonable to expect the
industry to absorb the majority of any new costs created by universal access to
health care.

If the five principles listed above were enacted into an American Health Care
Access Law, all Americans would have secure access to health care. Moreover,
this would be achieved without raising taxes or unduly burdening small
businesses.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              454 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                   The Blair Press (Blair-Taylor, Wisconsin)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                 March 15, 2012

Health insurance exchanges help small businesses;
Vinehout

BYLINE: The Blair Press-Taylor staff

LENGTH: 718  words


"Costs keep rising," the small business owner told me. "The worst is health
insurance. We got a 27 percent increase in premiums this year. Can you do
something about that?"

The single biggest help the state can give small businesses is affordable health
insurance. Business leaders across the state tell me out-of-control health
insurance costs are limiting job growth. Would-be entrepreneurs say the fear of
losing their existing insurance is the reason they haven't started their new
business.

Business owners say getting through the small print and making smart insurance
buying decisions is very difficult. People buy insurance only to find out the
reason they bought the policy isn't covered in the small print. There is no
predictability - except that costs will go up - the only question is 'how high'.

My bill creating the Small Business Health Options Program would give business
owners and their agents a virtual marketplace to make apples-to-apples
comparison on health plans. Information would be available in an
easy-to-understand searchable website; something like Ex-pedia or Orbitz used to
buy airline tickets. But the exchange is more than a website. Behind the scenes,
insurers are providing information to the exchange to make accurate and simple
comparison of plans possible.

The idea behind the exchange is to make buying health insurance more
competitive; and through competition, drive down costs. But to be a true
marketplace, consumers must have clear and comparable information on both cost
and quality.

For small businesses, farmers and others who buy insurance on their own, a
well-run exchange does two things. First, exchanges give small groups big buying
power. Instead of being all on then-own, individuals and small businesses would
be part of the larger group buying insurance through the exchange. To make the
buying group as strong as possible I expanded it to as many employers as allowed
by federal law - all employers with 100 employees or less.

Second, the exchange provides information not now available to small businesses
and people who buy insurance on their own. That information allows for a clear
comparison of plans.

My bill intentionally keeps the information available to consumers simple and
complete. The exchange will rate plans based on benefits. Other information on
quality will be available for comparison.

Consumers could have confidence in the details because the state would play the
role of the referee in the marketplace. Companies would be required to follow
rules that allow the apples-to-apples comparison. Hidden costs and companies
trying to wiggle out of commitments would be forbidden.

My uniquely Wisconsin approach to controlling rising health insurance costs
would build on the work already in place to collect cost and quality
information. Today health providers report much information about quality. But
the information rarely makes its way to health consumers. The Small Business
Health Options Program would collect this information and make it available as
part of the searchable website.

Here is how the exchange would work for two partners running a small business.
One has breast cancer. She is recovering but realizes her special needs as she
and her partner sit down to find a new health insurance plan. She and her
partner could easily compare the cost and benefits of each health insurance
package. They also can compare the quality of the care on her particular health
condition.

Critics of health insurance exchanges argue Wisconsin already has a competitive
health insurance market place. But the playing field is uneven. The field is
tipped in the direction of the health insurance plans, not consumers. The
exchange can bring transparency to the product and make comparison-shopping
possible. This is not an easy task given the complexities of health care in
today's world.

But it is possible. Wisconsin is one of only 14 states not making significant
progress toward creating an exchange. This must change.

The homework is done and business leaders want the change. But the politics of
key leaders in the state keep Wisconsin from moving forward.

The most important thing we can do to help encourage start-up business in
Wisconsin and grow small businesses is to create a truly competitive marketplace
for affordable health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Guest Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BLP

                      Copyright 2012 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                     Copyright 2012 The Blair Press Taylor


                              455 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

FEELING THE SQUEEZE;
HEALTH - BUDGET 09

BYLINE: Nabila Ahmed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 503 words


For the well-off, the Medicare rebate is gone - but not the levy surcharge,
writes Nabila Ahmed.

Jodie Maurer is taking a pragmatic approach to the news that from July next year
she will no longer be eligible for the 30 per cent private health insurance
rebate.

The 33-year-old Sydney lawyer says she is happy to share some of the pain as
Australia navigates through a recession.

"It will cost me a lot more now that the rebate is gone but I think it's not
that bad in the whole scheme of things," Maurer says.

"They have targeted people who can afford to pay more for private health
insurance and if I can do my little bit in these times I don't mind."

The fact that an increase to the Medicare levy surcharge means that any savings
she would make from dropping her private health cover would go towards her tax
bill was also a consideration.

But she says she wouldn't consider dropping private health cover even without
the tax penalty as she believes in individuals taking responsibility for their
own healthcare.

Maurer is hopeful that enough people will see the value in private health
insurance and retain their cover to not create further upward pressure on
premiums.

While health insurers have criticised the rebate changes as bad policy, the
government believes the added cost to taxpayers will ensure a drop of no more
than 1 per cent in insurance coverage.

Under the changes to the health insurance rebate announced in Tuesday's budget,
singles earning between $75,000 and $90,000 and families earning between
$150,000 and $180,000 will have their private health insurance rebate cut from
30 per cent to 20 per cent.

Singles on wages between $90,000 and $120,000 and families on $180,000 and
$240,000 will receive a private health insurance rebate of just 10 per cent,
down from 30 per cent.

For people without private health insurance in that income bracket, the
surcharge will climb to 1.25 per cent, up from 1 per cent.

The private health insurance rebate will be scrapped altogether for singles
earning more than $120,000 and families on more than $240,000. But the option of
not taking out private health insurance will cost them 1.5 per cent of their
income as a Medicare levy surcharge.

Broker UBS says national household and wages data suggests that between 15 and
20 per cent of households may be affected by the health insurance changes.

While singles such as Jodie Maurer are best placed to deal with the loss or
reduction of the rebate, single-parent families are most at risk of dropping out
because the cost of health insurance for them is likely to be greater than the
cost of the Medicare levy surcharge.

UBS has told clients that a key issue for the future of private health insurance
as a product is whether households will be able to absorb further health
insurance premium increases. The broker notes that the industry is already
dealing with the recent 6 per cent rise in premiums, a higher income threshold
for the Medicare levy surcharge and a decline in membership growth due to the
economic downturn.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jodie Maurer . . . 'If I can do my little bit in these times I
don't mind.' Photo: PETER BRAIG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2009 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              456 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                            January 27, 2009 Tuesday

No Change in Daman's 2009[#xfffd][#x20ac][#xfffd]Basic Premium

LENGTH: 203 words


ABU DHABI - The National Health Insurance Company - Daman, has announced that it
will continue selling the 'Basic -Abu Dhabi- Plan' at the same cost throughout
2009.

The insurance company confirmed on Sunday that it would continue to provide
coverage to its members enrolled in the Health Insurance Scheme at its network
of healthcare providers in Abu Dhabi with an annual limit of Dh250,000, setting
aside speculations that the price would increase due to inflation.

The decision follows an agreement with the Health Authority Abu Dhabi (HAAD). Dr
Ahmed Al Mazrouei, Chairman of HAAD, commended Daman's efforts to keep the
premium unchanged for the third consecutive year, despite the rising costs of
healthcare services.

"Despite the increasing cost of healthcare, we've managed to maintain the Dh600
premium. We'll continue to work with all healthcare facilities, as well as HAAD,
to stabilise the costs of health insurance policies," said Dr Michael Bitzer,
Daman's CEO.

According to the Health Insurance Law, Daman has exclusive rights to the
government-subsidized Abu Dhabi Plan. This Basic Plan is issued to those with an
income of Dh4,000 plus accommodation or Dh5,000 without accommodation.[#xfffd]

 asmahamidkt@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2009 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              457 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Crain's Cleveland Business

                                  May 13, 1996

HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM  EFFORT HOBBLED BY GOP RIFT

BYLINE: ROGER K. LOWE

SECTION: Health Care; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 907 words


WASHINGTON - The long-term prognosis for health insurance reform in Congress is
still guarded, with congres-sional Republicans divided over several key
provisions in the legislation.

The legislation is designed to improve the availability of health insurance
coverage by prohibiting insurers from denying coverage because of a pre-existing
medical condition or if an individual changes jobs. But the House and Senate
versions of the legislation still differ on significant issues, and President
Clinton is vowing to veto the bill if it isn't to his liking.

Small business groups are watching the struggle with interest, as the cost and
availability of health care is among the top problems facing small business
owners, according to the 600,000-member National Federation of Independent
Business.

The House and Senate each want to increase the 30% tax deduction for the cost of
health insurance premiums to self-employed small business owners, but differ on
the level of the increase. Incorporated businesses already are able to deduct
100% of the cost of their health insurance premiums.

The House bill would raise the tax deduction for self-employed small business
owners to 50%, while the Senate boosts the deduction to 80%.

''This deduction would help defray some of the high costs of health insurance
and reduce the disparity between millions of self-employed owners and
corporations,'' said Dan Danner, vice president of federal governmental
relations for NFIB.

''Self-employed business owners often pay 30% more than larger companies for
health insurance,'' Mr. Danner said. ''Increasing the amount they can deduct
will encourage them to purchase health insurance for themselves and their
families.''

The biggest area of contention is over a provision to give tax incentives for
medical savings accounts, which are intended to give families and individuals
more control over their health care costs.

The House version of the legislation includes medical savings accounts, but the
proposal was deleted from the Senate's version by a 52-46 vote. President
Clinton has threatened to veto the entire bill if medical savings accounts are
included.

Under the House version of medical savings accounts, some of the money now spent
by employers on a company health insurance plan would be diverted into medical
savings accounts.

For example, if a company currently spends $4,500 a year on a family's health
insurance policy, it instead could use $2,500 to buy an insurance policy - with
a higher deductible than the more expensive policy - to cover catastrophic
illness. The other $2,000 would be put into a tax-free medical savings account,
which the employee would use to pay health care bills.

If all that money is spent, then the employee would pay a maximum of $500 to
meet the rest of the deductible before insurance pays the bills. The $500 in
out-of-pocket costs for a family is similar to the deductible in many
traditional health insurance plans.

Any money left in the medical savings account at the end of the year would be
rolled over into the next year for use by the employee to pay medical bills.

Proponents, such as NFIB, contend that the accounts cause consumers to be more
cost-conscious about their health care and to look for bargains. But opponents
such as Consumers Union and Citizen Action argue that the accounts would disrupt
the insurance market because healthier and wealthier people would opt for the
medical savings accounts.

Small business advocates also are trying to convince senators to enable small
firms to band together to buy health insurance. Mr. Danner said the House bill
would allow such purchasing cooperatives with the same exemptions that bigger
self-insured companies get from state benefit requirements and rating rules.

The Health Insurance Association of America and Blue Cross/Blue Shield have
opposed the House plan.

Congress also is divided on whether to mandate that employers provide mental
health benefits if they offer traditional health coverage. The Senate version
includes the mandate, but the House version does not.

Business groups, including NFIB and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, oppose
requiring mental health coverage. They argue it would increase the cost of
health insurance premiums.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Crain Communications Inc.


                              458 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   St. Clair News-Aegis (Pell, City, Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            October 30, 2015 Friday

Policy costs in Alabama expected to rise when health insurance marketplace
reopens Sunday

BYLINE: Jeff Thompson, St. Clair News-Aegis, Pell City, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 321 words


Oct. 30--Open enrollment on the Alabama Health Insurance Marketplace will begin
Sunday, Nov. 1, and the U.S. Government reports customers will see fewer options
at higher rates in 2016.

According to a release from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS), the cost of a benchmark silver-level plan in Alabama will increase by 13
percent compared to prices from last year's open enrollment. Across the U.S.,
the cost of the benchmark plan will increase by an average of 7.2 percent.

The release, based on an HHS report issued Oct. 30, says Alabama consumers will
be able to choose from three issuers and an average of 13 plans in 2016 -- five
fewer than last year.

"Each issuer reduced its number of plan offerings by 2 on average," the release
states. "This likely reflects issuers' experience in the Marketplace and their
understanding of consumer preferences."

According to a report by Atlantic Information Services, Inc. (AIS), a health
data company, no new carriers have applied to sell coverage through the exchange
in Alabama. Blue Cross Blue Shield of Alabama and UnitedHeath Group both
requested rate increases for 2016.

AIS reports that Blue Cross requested a 27 percent rate increase for its Value
Silver individual plan and a 54 percent increase for its Blue Access Gold plan.
The insurer also requested a 71 percent increase for its platinum-tiered plan.

Rate increases are expected to affect approximately 175,000 filers, but some
Alabama residents could still see savings with the help of Federal subsidies.
HHS reports that with applicable tax credits 76 percent of Alabama enrollees
could find plans for $75 in premiums per month or less, and 81 percent could
find plans for $100 in premiums per month or less.

For more, visit hhs.gov.

___ (c)2015 the St. Clair News-Aegis (Pell City, Ala.) Visit the St. Clair
News-Aegis (Pell City, Ala.) at www.newsaegis.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151030-ZE-Policy-costs-in-Alabama-expected-to-rise-when-
health-insurance-marketplace-reopens-Sunday-1030-20151030

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZE


                      Copyright 2015 St. Clair News-Aegis


                              459 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            November 14, 2005 Monday
                                  ALL EDITION

HEALTH INSURANCE: A FADING BENEFIT;
BECAUSE HEALTH-CARE COVERAGE IS SO EXPENSIVE, MORE AND MORE WISCONSIN WORKERS
ARE LOSING EMPLOYER-PAID INSURANCE.;
HEALTH INSURANCE: A FADING BENEFIT

BYLINE: DAVID WAHLBERG dwahlberg@madison.com 608-252-6125

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 865 words


When Don Bussan faced decreasing revenue at his bowling alleys and increasing
health insurance rates for his employees, he took a painful step.

He dropped the health coverage this month, forcing about 30 workers to seek
insurance on their own.

"It got to the point where it was so expensive, we just couldn't provide it,"
said Bussan, owner of Bowl-A-Vard Lanes in Madison, Prairie Lanes in Sun Prairie
and Ten Pin Alley in Fitchburg.

Many businesses and their employees are being priced out of the insurance
market, experts say.

A recent Wisconsin Association of Health Plans analysis found that for the first
time more people now rely on taxpayer-funded health plans such as Medicaid than
on commercial insurance.

About 1.5 million people in the state carried commercial insurance last year,
according to the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance. More than 1.6 million
were on government-run programs: Medicaid, Medicare, BadgerCare and the Health
Insurance Risk Sharing Plan.

An additional 2.1 million people in the state last year had private health
insurance that is "self-funded" by their workplace. That means the employer
takes on the financial risk instead of the insurance company, as is the case
with commercial insurance.

Many larger employers are self-funded, with smaller businesses tending to buy
commercial insurance.

But even major employers such as Wal-Mart and Aurora Health Care each have more
than 1,200 employees in the state on public insurance programs, according to a
recent report by Wisconsin Citizen Action.

And another recent study released by the Economic Policy Institute said 355,000
Wisconsin residents lost employer-provided coverage over the past four years, a
6.5 percent decline in employer-provided coverage that trailed only Missouri,
North Carolina and Maryland.

"At wit's end" "Wisconsin's small-business owners and employees are at wit's end
when it comes to accessing affordable health insurance," Bill G. Smith, state
director of the National Federation of Independent Business, said in a
statement.

Commercial insurers say they can't cut premiums because of state fees and
coverage requirements.

Some state requirements for coverage, such as chiropractic care and certain
mental health services, affect only commercial plans, said Phil Dougherty,
deputy director of the Wisconsin Association of Health Plans, which represents
the state's health maintenance organizations or HMOs.

Also, he said, commercial plans are required to pay 20 percent of the cost of
HIRSP, a government plan for people who aren't eligible for coverage in the
private market, often because they have costly medical conditions.

And as commercial insurance ranks dwindle, fewer carriers have to pay more to
cover increasing costs, creating a vicious circle that makes coverage even more
expensive and forces more people to drop it, Dougherty said.

"It's like the Social Security dilemma," he said. "You have increasing costs
borne by a shrinking population."

The HMO group is pushing for reforms to the HIRSP program, such as requiring
greater use of generic drugs, that would lower costs, Dougherty said. Though
just 18,000 people are in the program, it cost the commercial insurers $39
million this year, he said.

But commercial health plans shouldn't complain about how much they have to
contribute to HIRSP, said Bobby Peterson, executive director of ABC for Health,
a public interest law firm that helps people obtain health insurance. Many
high-risk people are in the costly program because they have been turned down by
commercial plans, he said.

"They're written out of (the commercial) plans because they have pre-existing
medical conditions," he said. "Of course it's going to be expensive."

Cost-shifting

Peterson said it's unfair to blame the rise in commercial insurance rates solely
on the increasing public health insurance loads. Administration costs and other
factors also drive up rates, he said.

Commercial and self-funded private insurance plans are both affected by "cost
-shifting," said Cheryl DeMars, marketing director of The Alliance, a
health-care purchasing cooperative in Madison composed of companies that provide
self-funded insurance.

Cost-shifting occurs when doctors and hospitals charge more to people on private
plans to compensate for payments that are sometimes lower from public plans.

At Bowl-A-Vard Lanes, near East Towne Mall, workers know how expensive health
insurance can be.

Colleen Sumenek, 33, worked part-time at the bowling alley and full-time at
Sports Authority until the sports store closed this year. After she lost that
job, she went full-time as league coordinator at the bowling alley.

While at Sports Authority, Sumenek paid $50 a month for health insurance for
herself and her 15-year-old son. Now, she's paying $220 for an insurance plan
that doesn't cover as much, which she purchased on her own.

"It's hard," she said. "But you've got to have insurance."

Bussan, who blames Madison's new smoking ban for some of the downturn in his
business, said he hopes to provide health insurance again if business picks up.

"I'm a strong believer of trying to help employees in any way we can," he said.
"But I also have to worry about the bottom line."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Maniaci - State Journal Don Bussan, owner of three bowling alleys
in the Madison area, said he was forced to drop health insurance for his
employees because of a dip in revenue and rising insurance rates. He works the
desk at Bowl-A-Vard Lanes near East Towne Mall. Don Bussan does paperwork
recently at Bowl-A-Vard Lanes. Bussan has had to drop health insurance coverage
for his employees. He said he hopes to provide health insurance again if
business picks up. Leah L. Jones - State Journal Colleen Sumenek, league
coordinator at Bowl-A-Vard Lanes in Madison, pays $220 a month for health
insurance that she bought on her own for herself and her son. State Journal
graphic Changing health insurance in Wisconsin Sources: Wisconsin Association of
Health Plans; Wisconsin Office of the Commissioner of Insurance; Wisconsin
Department of Health and Family Services; U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Madison Newspapers, Inc.


                              460 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday

Rochester city manager wants department budgets at zero increase

BYLINE: Liz Markhlevskaya, Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 528 words


Dec. 06--ROCHESTER -- To prepare for higher than anticipated expenses next year,
the city manager is asking department heads to propose budgets that have
zero-percent increases over the current fiscal year.

Earlier this week, Police Chief Mike Allen said a zero-increase budget would
mean having to eliminate several police officers.

According to City Manager Daniel Fitzpatrick, the increases in retirement and
health insurance costs next year will be unusually high.

Next fiscal year, Rochester will have to pay about $387,000 more into the New
Hampshire Retirement System, which is an increase of more than 20 percent.
Finance Director and Deputy City Manager Blaine Cox said retirement costs, set
by the Retirement System board of trustees, are going up about 22 percent for
municipal employees, 27 percent for police officers, and 21 percent for Fire
Department members.

Also, the city's health insurance costs may go up by as much as 14 percent. Cox
said 14 percent is the guaranteed maximum rate released by the Health Trust, a
public health insurance pool of the Local Government Center.

The actual rate increase for health insurance won't be known until about April
or May, said Cox. If rates go up by 14 percent, the city would have to pay
roughly $319,000 more toward health insurance next year.

On Wednesday, Cox said while he was expecting increases in health insurance and
retirement costs, he was somewhat surprised by the magnitude of these increases.

As city officials begin the process of preparing the budget for next year,
Fitzpatrick said he recently met with all city department heads and asked that
they submit proposed budgets that have zero-percent increases.

"I probably gave them expectations that they could not meet, but that's what I'm
supposed to do. I'm supposed to make it challenging for them," Fitzpatrick said
Wednesday. "Our goals are always to keep the expenses down as much as possible
and retain current services."

After each department submits its proposed budget for next year, Fitzpatrick
will review the budgets with his financial team. Then, he will meet with
department heads individually and go over the various scenarios for funding, and
make any necessary adjustments.

The City Council will give final approval of the budget around June.

When asked about the possibility of personnel being laid off because of the
tight budget, Fitzpatrick said, "We have to look at every scenario."

While Fitzpatrick said it's too early to tell whether layoffs will take place as
a result, he did note personnel costs make up the majority of the budget.

"That's where the costs are," he said.

Besides the increasing retirement and health insurance costs, another big
expenditure for next year is personnel costs related to collective bargaining
agreements approved last year. But Fitzpatrick said expenditures having to do
with labor union contracts have been budgeted for, and "that's within manageable
limits."

"What we couldn't plan for is the retirement bill and the medical bill," he
said.

___ (c)2012 the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) Visit the Foster's Daily
Democrat (Dover, N.H.) at www.fosters.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20121206-1FD-Rochester-city-manager-wants-department-budgets-at-zero-increase-12
06-20121206

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FD


               Copyright 2012 Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H


                              461 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 16, 2014 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Medicaid expansion is good for Va. business

BYLINE: Jim Corcoran

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 697 words


Name the issue before the Virginia General Assembly that you think will have the
greatest impact on the bottom line of businesses this year? Here's a hint. It's
not taxes, transportation or overregulation.

Rather, it's whether Virginia takes steps to extend health-care coverage to
195,000 uninsured Virginians. Here's why:

These 195,000 have fallen into the "coverage gap" that was created as a
consequence of the Supreme Court's 2012 ruling that states could opt out of the
Affordable Care Act's Medicaid expansion. The gap takes in those Virginians who
don't get health insurance from their employers (yes, 70 percent of them have
full- or part-time jobs) and aren't eligible for either traditional Medicaid
under the commonwealth's strict eligibility limits or subsidized insurance on
the state's federally operated health-care exchange.

Though they do not have health coverage, however, uninsured Virginians still
seek medical treatment when they are ill or injured. Those in the coverage gap
often cannot pay the bill afterward. So Virginia's hospitals - which, by law,
must provide treatment whether the patient has the means to pay or not - provide
about $600 million in uncompensated care to uninsured Virginians each year.

This is where businesses are affected. To offset some of that cost, health
insurance plans are charged more for tests and treatments in the hospital
setting. Insurers pass those costs on to businesses and individuals that
purchase health insurance, in the form of higher premiums. In fact, according to
a Senate Finance Committee analysis, as much as 10 percent of health-insurance
premiums are because of this cost-shifting.  That means the cost of providing
care to Virginians who fall in the coverage gap will seriously affect the bottom
line of Northern Virginia businesses.

The General Assembly can take steps to reduce this cost-shifting and help
businesses rein in their coverage costs, but some legislators have so far
refused to act. The commonwealth can recapture a substantial portion of the
federal taxes and fees that Virginians are paying as part of the Affordable Care
Act to help cover the costs of providing health care to those in the coverage
gap. Washington has committed to paying 100 percent of the cost through 2016,
phasing down to 90 percent in 2020 and beyond.

Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) proposes using this money to expand traditional
government-run Medicaid. This is strongly opposed by many in the General
Assembly who believe the costly program needs significant reforms and are
skeptical that the federal government will meet its obligations long term.

Others, led by state Sen. John C. Watkins (R-Powhatan), propose a more
market-based solution. The Fairfax Chamber of Commerce supports this approach as
the best way to resolve this issue and protect businesses from unfair cost
-shifting.

Under this solution, Virginia would use the federal funds to provide basic
coverage from competing private insurers to those in the coverage gap.
Participants would pay income-based co-pays and meet minimum work requirements.
Participants would also be informed that this coverage, like any insurance
policy, would remain in force only as long as premiums are paid - which means
that if the federal government reneged on its funding commitment in future
years, the policies would be subject to cancellation.

This solution would ensure that those in the coverage gap would receive cost
-efficient health insurance. It would recapture Virginia tax dollars that would
otherwise stay in Washington. It would avoid a massive expansion of bureaucracy
while ensuring that Virginia taxpayers are not left on the hook, should
Washington not meet its commitments.

Most important for many Northern Virginia businesses, this solution would reduce
upward pressure on health-insurance costs. This would help businesses better
manage their health-care costs and reduce the impact on their bottom lines -
which is why providing health insurance to uninsured Virginians is a top
priority for business. The solution is there. It is time for the General
Assembly to act.

The writer is president and chief executive of the Fairfax County Chamber of
Commerce.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2014 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              462 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

Pacific Prime Singapore releases third part of cost of health insurance report

LENGTH: 230  words

DATELINE: New York


Bio Medicine has issued the following news release:

One of Singapore's top health insurance brokers, Pacific Prime Singapore, has
released the third article of their three part report on the cost of health
insurance. Titled: The cost of health insurance in different regions, this
article takes the 94 countries included in the overall report and groups them by
region to allow for a high-level comparison of the cost of international
individual health insurance.

The countries included in the report are divided into five regions:
Asia
the Middle East
Africa
Europe
the Americas
with each region being sectioned into four demographic segments (Singles,
Couples, Families, and Retirees). Each demographic segment has premiums
presented by health insurance plan type:
Plan 1: Inpatient coverage
Plan 2: Inpatient + outpatient coverage
Plan 3: Inpatient + outpatient + maternity coverage

Each of these plan types includes a graph that allows for an easy, visual
comparison of the premiums in each country included in the region; offered by
the six health insurance providers. Beyond that, highlights for this article
include:

The cost of individual health insurance in regions and countries popular with
expats.

An in-depth analysis of each plan type in each demographic segment.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              463 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Bendigo Advertiser

                                 April 1, 2016

Private health pinch hurts Bendigo budgets | Poll

BYLINE: EMMA D'AGOSTINO

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1729  words


Bendigo health experts have warned the private health insurance price hike will
put pressure on the Australian health system.

They have vouched for the importance of both public and private health care in
meeting the health needs of the community.

Without private health patients, public health waiting lists would lengthen and
hospitals would have to find a way to make up for millions of dollars in
funding.

The health experts feared the inflated costs would discourage many people with
private health cover from continuing their policies, and deter others who might
otherwise have considered it.

Yesterday the average cost of private health insurance premiums rose by an
average of 5.59 percent.

More than 70 percent of Australians with private health insurance were expected
to review their cover as a result.

Community members have taken to The Bendigo Advertiser's social media accounts
to say it's an expense they can ill afford.

Some have also questioned the need for private health insurance, with a public
health service that provides quality care at minimal to no cost when it's needed
most.

Medical providers are being faced with people's displeasure at gap fees and
policy exclusions, which is time and energy they could be spending on other
aspects of patient care.

But how much of this stems from a lack of understanding of private health
insurance as a product?

Private pain for Bendigo hospitals

PRICING people out of private health insurance could cost Bendigo Health more
than $9 million, leaving it reliant on increased government funding or forced to
slash services.

Chief executive John Mulder said private health insurance contributed more than
$6 billion annually to the cost of private health care in Australia, most of
which was performed in private hospitals.

'If people are forced out of private health insurance, that can only put more
pressure on the public health system, which is already facing significant
demand," he said.

He said almost three percent of Bendigo Health's revenue base was funded by
private health insurance, which amounted to more than $9 million in the 2014-15
financial year.

But the combined effect of insurance premium price hikes, effective from
yesterday, and provider policy changes poses significant challenges to that
income source.

Mr Mulder said many private health funds were substantially reducing or removing
the private room subsidy they had been paying public hospitals.

'This benefit has been worth around $1.2 million annually to Bendigo Health,
money that goes towards vital public services for the community,' he said.

'Heath funds are not telling their members the benefit has been removed ' that's
up to my admission staff, who convey the bad news on arrival that the patient's
cover no longer entitles them to a private room, if available.

'This upsets private patients and has them questioning why they are paying for
private health cover and why they aren't using the private hospital system,
where a single room is more likely to be available.'

In a bid for transparency, Mr Mulder said Bendigo Health would start advising
its patients of the benefits and entitlements of the hospital care each of the
funds offered.

'We won't be recommending any particular fund, but the notices will clearly
indicate some funds are looking after their members' interests better than
others,' he said.

Bendigo Health had 192,350 patients last year.

Mr Mulder said more than 40 percent of Bendigo residents had private health
insurance, about 17 percent of whom elected to use their cover upon admission to
Bendigo Health.

The health service also had to contend with people's dissatisfaction about gap
fees, which occur when a patient is charged the difference between a service's
cost and contributions by Medicare and/or their health cover.

'At Bendigo Health, we have been working with our medical consultants to
minimise or remove gap fees wherever possible, as private patients are an
important source of revenue for our business and we want to encourage their
patronage,' Mr Mulder said.

He said he was aware families and individuals were struggling to meet the rising
cost of private health care.

'For some people in our community, the product is simply no longer affordable,
and with annual premium increases at twice the rate of consumer price index
(CPI), this situation won't improve anytime soon,' he said.

He reassured people who couldn't afford private cover that Australia had one of
the best public healthcare systems in the world.

'And in Bendigo, we will soon add to this with the opening of our new
world-class public hospital,' he said.

But hospitals throughout the state ' and the nation ' are facing tough times as
governments slash health budgets.

Earlier this week the state government announced it was taking High Court action
against the federal government 'to recover the $73 million in funding' stripped
from Victorian hospitals and patients.'

St John of God Bendigo Hospital director of nursing and clinical services Jayne
Boyle said the Australian health care system was reliant on quality private and
public health care services.

'The entire health system needs those who can afford to pay for private health
insurance to take out the highest level of care they can afford with the least
restrictions or exclusions, as the future health care needs for individual
members are not predictable,' she said.

She said private health insurance had the benefit of providing members with
immediate access to a private hospital with their choice of specialist care.

'St John of God Bendigo Hospital works very hard to minimise or negate patient
out of pockets costs related to their hospital stay,' she said.

Private health insurance: Is it worth it?

The Bendigo Advertiser this week put a question to its Facebook followers: how
much did they care about the rising cost of private health insurance?

Many were cynical of its value. But Bendigo-born mother of four Candice Bowles
said private health cover was useful in many instances: 'You have to know
exactly what you want.'

'We've only got extras cover,' she said.

Her family's policy covers ambulance, optical, dental and physiotherapy.

'Three of my four children have glasses ' our annual excess premium virtually
covers the cost of the glasses,' she said.

Mrs Bowles said the key to health insurance was to do your homework.

She and her husband signed up to their policy in 2004, when their first child
was born, and have stuck by it ever since despite pressure from the provider to
change.

'You've got to go through it all to make sure you're getting the right benefits
for you and every family is different,' she said.

Private health insurance premiums rose by an average of 5.59 percent yesterday.

Although the price hike coincided with April Fool's Day, research commissioned
by health insurance comparison service iSelect reinforced it was no laughing
matter.

An average family policy will cost an extra $200 a year, according to their
calculations.

The study found more than 70 percent of Australians with private health
insurance planned to take action.

Forty-six percent were keen to shop around for a cheaper deal, while seven
percent planned to switch provider.

The inflated costs range from an average of 3.76 percent to 8.95 percent,
depending on the provider.

More than half a million Australians planned to dump private health insurance.

Member for Bendigo Lisa Chesters said many people in her electorate were likely
to be among them.

'I've already had people at listening posts say it's a bill they just can't
afford,' she said.

'They'll still see doctors, but will pay as they go.'

Ms Chesters has called on the federal government to review the efficacy of
private health insurance.

'It's not just that there is not enough money in the household budget ' there's
also now a question mark over whether it's worth what people are paying.'

A medical expert's opinion

Discouraging people from private health insurance could have disastrous
consequences, a Bendigo health practitioner warned.

'Private health insurance protects the public system from being overwhelmed so
people who can afford insurance keep themselves off public waiting lists and
leave them for people who can't,' said the practitioner, who requested to remain
anonymous.

If people dumped private insurance en masse, he said waiting lists would blow
out and 'the whole system would collapse.'

'If you've got the money to be insured, I would be insured,' he said.

He said there were many factors influencing the rising cost of private health
insurance, including new technology and life expectancy.

People's comprehension of health insurance was another issue.

The practitioner said people who found themselves with significant gaps between
their rebates and service fees should query both their insurance provider and
their medical practitioner.

'Your gap is going to be bigger if you have a cheaper insurer' people don't
appreciate that,' he said.

'Practitioners have various billing schedules as well.'

He recommended people examine their policies and inquire about rebates and
pricing before using a service.

Research commissioned by health insurance comparison service iSelect revealed
most Australians were unaware any waiting periods already served were protected
by law if they switched to an equivalent or lower level of hospital cover.

"This could mean many Australians are putting up with ongoing price increases
instead of switching to a better deal... because they wrongly believe they will
have to re-serve waiting periods,' iSelect spokeswoman Laura Crowden said.

iSelect saw a spike in private health insurance inquiries following the private
health insurance price hike announcement.

The Australian Medical Association took a swipe at comparison sites when
releasing its Private Health Insurance Report Card earlier this month.

'These comparator sites ' which are marketed as 'free' comparison sites ' can
earn exorbitant fees per sale from the insurers,'  AMA president Professor Brian
Owler said.

'These fees can make up a sizeable portion of the total insurance premium.

'There needs to be a greater level of transparency, and the Government and
regulators need to scrutinize these sites.'

He said it was important people took it upon themselves to be better informed
about health insurance.

'The AMA wants Australians to know their insurance product ' and know it
thoroughly,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              464 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                               February 18, 2002

HIAA President: Maintaining Affordability Of Health Insurance Is # 1 Challenge

BYLINE: By Steven Brostoff

SECTION: D.C. DISPATCH; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1481 words

DATELINE: Washington


Maintaining the affordability of health insurance is the number one economic
challenge facing the health insurance industry, says Donald Young, president of
the Health Insurance Association of America.

At a press briefing, Young outlined the legislative issues HIAA will confront
this year.

With health care costs increasing at the fastest rate in a decade, Young says,
the ball is now in Congress' court to avoid enacting legislation that will add
to the cost of health insurance and make it even more unaffordable.

Issues such as a patients' bill of rights and mental health parity would
increase costs significantly, Young says.

Indeed, he says, while much of the attention surrounding patients' bill of
rights legislation focuses on liability, and whether health care dollars should
go to the trial bar, that is only part of the problem.

Both the House and the Senate versions of the legislation (H.R. 2563 and S.
1052, respectively) contain both benefit mandates and administrative
requirements that would increase costs, Young says.

One problem, he adds, is that the budget surpluses that Congress wanted to use
to finance a range of health care initiatives are now gone.

"The threat is that as public money dries up, lawmakers will be more tempted
than ever to impose costly mandates on private health insurers," Young says.

And the bill will be paid by those who purchase health insurance, he says, who
are businesses and workers.

On another issue, optional federal chartering of insurance companies, Young says
HIAA is closely following the current debate, but does not yet have a position.

Young says HIAA has long supported state regulation of insurance, but notes that
the federal government is becoming more active in health insurance.

Moreover, he says, state mandated benefit laws are troubling and make health
insurance more expensive.

Meanwhile, health insurers are giving mixed reviews to President Bush's speech
last week outlining his health care agenda for 2002.

In a speech at the Medical College of Wisconsin, Bush discussed the health care
proposals contained in his fiscal year 2003 budget, including tax credits for
the uninsured, a Medicare prescription drug benefit and a patients' bill of
rights that avoids "needless litigation."

"It is really important to remember that we want to help doctors the heal, not
encourage lawyers to sue," Bush says.

Young says Bush's proposal to provide tax credits to the uninsured is a "good
first step" towards solving the problem of the uninsured.

"There is no substitute for the employer-based health care system, but those who
aren't offered coverage through their employers could use the help to buy
insurance industry individual market," Young says.

But he takes issue with the president's support of a patients' bill of rights,
which he says is inconsistent with the goal of reducing the number of uninsured
Americans.

"At some point, policymakers have to decide whether they want to help the
uninsured or enact a patients' bill of rights," Young says.  "They can't do
both."

In other news, the Senate approved what is called a "Sense of the Senate"
resolution calling for permanent repeal of the estate tax.

The resolution was sponsored by Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., whose attempt to move
legislation repealing the estate tax died along with an economic stimulus
package the Senate was considering (see last week's Dispatch for details).

The vote on the resolution was 56-42.  A Sense of the Senate resolution simply
expresses the views of the Senate.  It has no legislative impact and does not in
any way affect the current law.

Finally, industry groups are lining up to support pension reform legislation
introduced in the Senate by Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, and Trent Lott,
R-Miss.

The legislation, S. 1921, incorporates the provisions of the House-passed
Retirement Security Advice Act, H.R. 2269, that would allow insurance companies
and agents that provide services to employer-sponsored pension plans to also
provide investment advice to beneficiaries, subject to strict disclosure
requirements.

In addition, S. 1921, contains a variety of new reforms, such as mandatory
pension plan diversification, mandatory quarterly statements and protection of
plan participants during blackout periods.

Many of these reforms reflect alleged pension plan abuses relating to Enron.

Kathryn Ricard, vice president for retirement and pensions with the American
Council of Life Insurers, Washington, says inclusion of the investment advice
language in the package gives the legislation a boost, which it may need in the
Senate.

"One of the lessons from Enron is the need for plan participants to diversify
their retirement savings investments," Ricard says.

"Diversification is a message that must be stressed to all plan participants,
and the investment advice legislation would help get that done," she says.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 The National Underwriter Company


                              465 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 24, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Question mark in health bill: Who will pay? Premiums will soar, some critics
assert

BYLINE: Judi Hasson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 664 words


Senate approval of a health-reform bill that would make it easier
for people to hold onto their insurance when they leave jobs has
one unanswered question: Who will pay?

Some experts say 25 million people who can't get health insurance
now or would like to leave their jobs but fear losing their coverage
would benefit from the bill. It guarantees that workers could
get health insurance at a new job, even if they have a medical
problem. And if they are self-employed or searching for a job,
those same people couldn't be denied an individual health plan.

But there is no free ride. Employees may see premiums go up as
their companies are asked to include coverage of people with health
problems. Individual policy holders may face the same problem.


"There has to be a subsidy from somewhere," says Bill Gradison
of the Health Insurance Association of America. "The question
is how big a subsidy and who would pay it. The way this bill is
written it will be paid by . . . anybody who pays for it out of
their own pocket."

Employers offering health insurance usually split the cost with
employees. When workers are fired or quit, they can keep their
insurance coverage for up to 18 months -- if they pick up the
full cost.

But that's not cheap. For instance, a worker who belongs to an
employers group health insurance plan may pay $ 150 a month, 25%
of the $ 600 cost of their premiums. On their own, they'd pay the
$ 600 and probably more because they are no longer part of a group
plan.

Already many people say that route is too expensive, especially
over a long-term job search or when a worker becomes self-employed.

The new legislation guarantees that individuals can seek insurance
on their own and won't be denied if they have a medical condition.
But such individual coverage won't be cheaper, critics warn.

The Health Insurance Association says insurers will adjust rates
to meet the new demand of high-risk members. The group estimates
that there will be a $ 3 billion increase in premiums for nearly
9 million people who now pay for individual coverage because insurers
will raise prices to cover the cost of new members with medical
conditions.

Their figures are challenged by the American Academy of Actuaries,
which estimates smaller increases because states are likely to
put a lid on how much premiums could increase.

There already are examples about what happens when the insurance
rules are changed.

In 1994, Washington state allowed workers to take their insurance
from job to job without being penalized for existing problems.
Insurance rates in that state for the 40,000 with individual policies
jumped; in some cases premiums tripled.

Insurers blame the new law. Deborah Senn, the state's insurance
commissioner, says rates increased because of loopholes that allowed
insurers to raise their rates.

"In 1992, before we had the insurance reforms, the same companies
asked for 36% increases and they still could exclude people,"
Senn said. "Basically, we increased access to the health insurance
market."

A measure in the Senate bill to provide mental health benefits
in every insurance policy also could drive up costs, some critics
charge.

The measure would require insurers to provide as much mental health
care as benefits for physical ailments.

Small businesses charge that a guarantee would increase the costs
of the employer's share of premiums. "The mental health mandated
benefit will increase health insurance costs for small business
and coverage will go down for small business employees with that
amendment in there," says Mark Isakowitz of the National Federation
of Independent Business.

But nobody really knows how much it would cost, says Tricia Smith,
analyst at the American Association of Retired Persons.

"The health-care world is so volatile in its behavior and response
to changes that it's quite unpredictable," Smith says.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Duricka, AP; PHOTO, B/W, USA TODAY; Bipartisan plan:
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., answers questions about the health-reform
legislation he co-sponsored with Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R-Kan. Gradison: Subsidy
concerns

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              466 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 August 7, 2011

The pain of health insurance

SECTION: THE MARKET

LENGTH: 1216 words


Recent weeks have brought a number of financial blows for families, with news of
rising gas bills and the introduction of a household charge.

For some consumers, there was even more bad news last week, with health insurer
Aviva announcing its second price hike this year.

From the start of next month, the cost of Aviva's Level 2 hospital plan will
rise by 9.5 per cent for existing customers, and new customers will face a
premium increase of almost 20 per cent for the same cover.

Just under one in four Aviva customers will be affected by the increase in
prices, with the insurer saying the price rises were necessary due to ''the
combined effect of an increase in claims frequency and rising claims costs''.

Aviva's last price rise - a 14 per cent price increase across all consumer plans
-was effective from March 1.The insurer said it increased prices twice in one
year due to the ''dynamic'' nature of the market, saying things had ''changed
significantly since the beginning of this year''.

''The increase in the cost of private beds in public hospitals remains a
significant driver of increases in our claims costs," a spokeswoman for Aviva
said.

Aviva is not alone in hiking prices, with rival health insurers Quinn Healthcare
and VHI Healthcare also announcing price hikes earlier this year. Quinn's last
price increase took effect on April 1, with the insurer saying an average family
policy increased in cost by 6 per cent.

''This increase came as a direct result of the increase in the health insurance
levy," a spokeswoman for Quinn said.

VHI's prices last increased in February, with price increases varying across
different types of plan, with hikes of between 15 and 45 per cent.

Aongus Loughlin, a senior consultant in healthcare and risk at consultancy firm
Towers Watson, said it was likely that insurers would hold off until after
December's budget to announce any further price changes.

''I'd say they will all want to see what happens in the budget, around bed costs
and the health insurance levy," Loughlin said.

Consumers may be fearful of more price hikes ahead, but Liam Sloyan, chief
executive of the market's regulatory body, the Health Insurance Authority (HIA),
said it was important to remember that there were still products that had not
been subject to price increases.

''A lot of people are paying more than they need to for health insurance,"
Sloyan said.

According to Loughlin, consumers should keep an eye on corporate health
insurance plans.

''If you are savvy enough and get the premium at the right time, you can get a
great rate," he said.

Market trends

In a market with three main providers and more than 250 health insurance plans
to choose from, consumers are understandably a bit overwhelmed. However,
consumers are making some changes to their health insurance choices.

Figures from the HIA show that the number of people insured with an inpatient
health insurance policy declined by 14,000 in the first quarter of 2011,
continuing the gradual fall in the number insured since early 2009.Today just
under half the population have in-patient health insurance cover.

Also, as consumers try to reduce their expenditure, many are taking more risk.

''There has been a growth in the number of people who are purchasing plans with
an excess," said VHI's spokeswoman.

''This means that people pay a lower annual premium, but for each claim do pay a
small excess."

According to Quinn's spokeswoman, the majority of the company's health insurance
customers are on plans with an excess, while recent customer research by Aviva
indicated that Irish consumers would accept an excess in order to reduce their
premium. Consumers are also tailoring the type of products they are choosing in
a bid to reduce cost.

''The majority of our customers opt for plans that have cover for hospital
treatment as these plans have lower premiums than plans with additional day to
day benefits as well as hospital cover," said Aviva's spokeswoman.

Loughlin predicted that health insurance plans would become more tailored as the
market continues to develop.

For example, the VHI has just launched its latest plan, called One Plan Sport,
which is designed for sports enthusiasts. Benefits include specialist sports
injury care, fitness screening and rehabilitative physiotherapy.

What lies ahead

With a number of new proposals floated and a number of changes signalled, the
health insurance market is in a state of flux. The HIA submitted two reports,
one on risk equalisation and one on minimum benefits, to the Department of
Health just before Christmas 2010.

''They are both being considered as part of the work currently under way to
develop a permanent risk equalisation scheme and to update the minimum benefits
regulations," a spokesman for the Department of Health said.

However, when asked if these reports were effectively null and void given the
new proposals around universal health insurance, the spokesman said both reports
were ''highly relevant to the current system of private health insurance, and
will also be of importance in the context of universal health insurance''.

He said: ''The government has committed itself to protecting community rating
and to having risk equalisation under universal health insurance."

With a transitional risk equalisation scheme previously promised from 2012
onwards, it is likely that further details of this scheme will emerge in the
coming months.

Looking further ahead, universal health insurance is one of the central planks
of the current government's proposals on health reform and effectively means
that health insurance will be mandatory by 2016.

According to the Programme for Government, the state will pay insurance premiums
for people on low incomes and subsidise insurance premiums for people on middle
incomes.

Also the Programme for Government said that the state-controlled health insurer,
the VHI, would not be sold, but would remain ''in public ownership to retain a
public option in the universal health insurance system''.

However, proposals to break up the VHI into competing companies have also been
floated.

''While universal health insurance is the ultimate destination of this
government's reform programme, there are a number of important stepping stones
along the way," the spokesman said.

He added that an immediate priority was the establishment of the special
delivery unit, which will aim to reduce waiting times for hospital services.

A white paper on how universal health insurance will be financed has been
promised, with the government saying it is committed to its publication.

The paper will outline the estimated costs associated with the introduction of
universal health insurance.

''However, it must be emphasised that the precise cost of universal health
insurance will depend significantly on the success of reform measures over the
next three to four years," the spokesman said.

Details of an implementation group to oversee the universal health insurance
project will be announced by Minister for Health James Reilly in ''due course'',
according to a spokesman for the department.

Loughlin said that the proposal for universal health insurance was a good idea,
but that it would ''take years to get it over the line''.

''You have to have the infrastructure right before you can bring in universal
health insurance," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              467 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             National Underwriter,
                    Life & Health/Financial Services Edition

                                 July 19, 1999

Self-Interest Can Serve The Uninsured

BYLINE: by Charles N. Kahn III; CHARLES N. KAHN III IS PRESIDENT OF THE HEALTH
INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA, WASHINGTON, D.C.

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 932 words


Since the beginning of the Republic, businesses and consumers, acting rationally
out of economic self-interest, have been the underpinning of our nation's market
economy.  Without the ability to act out of economic self-interest, businesses
would go bust, and consumers could not make decisions that lower their costs and
improve the quality and quantity of goods and services that they buy.

This central economic tenet rings particularly true when considering the plight
of the more than 43 million Americans who lack health insurance.  We believe
that private health insurers, working together with government, can provide
coverage for all Americans.  To do so, the private health insurance industry
must be able to maintain profitability and respond to consumer demand.

However, the private health insurance industry is unique from most other
businesses because it offers what many people consider to be a social service.
Accordingly, private health insurers are heavily regulated, and must balance
their need to maintain profitability against medical cost inflation and
administrative costs associated with complying with state and federal laws and
regulations.

Within this framework, the private health insurance industry, working in tandem
with employers, has developed innovative coverage packages that actually have
increased the number of people with employer-sponsored health insurance.

Yet, while these new kinds of coverages have significantly reduced the rate of
health care cost inflation, the number of uninsured Americans continues to grow
at an alarming rate.  If left unaddressed, an additional one million Americans
will become uninsured each year, and more than one out of five non-elderly
Americans likely will be uninsured by the end of the next decade.

The rapid rise in the number of uninsured Americans threatens society in
general, and private health insurers in particular.  If the insurance industry
cannot act to reduce the number of uninsured Americans, government is likely to
step in and attempt to address this problem -- either by imposing even more
regulation, or by taking over health care financing.

Clearly, the nation's rising number of uninsured is of societal interest, and is
of self-interest to the health insurance industry.  Recognizing this, in May of
this year, the board of directors of the Health Insurance Association of America
unanimously approved Insure USA, a package that builds upon the success of the
employer-based health insurance system.

Most uninsured Americans are connected to the workforce, and roughly three out
of five have incomes below 200 percent of the federal poverty level.
Recognizing that affordability is the crux of the problem for most of the
nation's uninsured, Insure USA contains tax enhancements that would allow more
businesses, self-employed people, and individuals to better afford the cost of
coverage.

Insure USA provides subsidies that would allow the near-poor to purchase private
coverage, and calls for expanded government coverage for the poorest of the
poor.  It also consists of proposals that would reduce the cost of government
regulation, and provide American consumers with information that will better
enable them to take a more active role in their own health care.

Additionally, Insure USA contains tax relief for individuals who buy health
insurance out of their own pocket, as well as tax credits to better allow owners
of small businesses to buy coverage for their employees.  This is particularly
important, given that most uninsured Americans work for small businesses that
cannot afford health coverage.

All told, the Insure USA program could provide coverage for up to 29 million
currently uninsured Americans.  Furthermore, Insure USA is a realistic approach
to reducing the number of uninsured Americans.  Unlike proposals that raise
public ire by calling for the heavy hand of government intervention, the
elements of Insure USA are favored by more than four out of five Americans.

If adopted in its entirety, Insure USA would have a net annual cost of
approximately $ 60 billion dollars a year.  However, all of the $ 60 billion
need not be spent at once, because each of Insure USA's provisions could be
enacted in a building-block fashion.

Some criticize Insure USA as a $ 60 billion subsidy for the health insurance
industry.  But in fact, most of the money would go toward providing health care
for consumers.  Much of Insure USA's cost is money already being spent
inefficiently through cost-shifting added on to premiums of people who already
have coverage in order to cover the cost of uncompensated care.

Also, the expanded health coverage brought about by Insure USA would reduce
considerably the amount of dollars spent on expensive acute and non-emergent
emergency room care.

Admittedly, Insure USA is not inexpensive.  Yet the societal cost of a million
people a year added to the rolls of the uninsured is substantial.  It stands to
reason that the cost of providing coverage sooner is bound to be significantly
lower than the cost of providing coverage later.

Also, the earlier we address the problem of the uninsured, the earlier we can
reduce the cost-shifting that raises the price of coverage to most businesses
and individuals.

Reducing the number of uninsured Americans is in everybody's self-interest,
including that of the private health insurance industry.  With Insure USA, we
have the opportunity to combine our industry's self-interest with the national
self-interest, and to do right for millions of uninsured and insured Americans.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture, no caption

                Copyright 1999 The National Underwriter Company


                              468 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           January 20, 2016 Wednesday

A chance to get low-cost health insurance

BYLINE: Connie M. Leyva

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 670 words


Heidy's dad suffered from apnea, high blood pressure and other serious health
conditions - none of which he had been able to address because he and his family
lacked health insurance. As a state senator, it is painful to hear that
hardworking Californians - like Heidy and her dad - could go without health
coverage simply because it costs too much. Heidy's dad tried for years to get
health coverage but was unable to afford treatment for his health conditions
because he had to cover basic family costs such as housing, food and other
day-to-day necessities. Luckily, Heidy and her dad were finally able to get
affordable health coverage through Covered California.

"My family was excited when we obtained it and we cannot wait to make our first
doctor's appointment," said Heidy. "It has also allowed me to feel more secure."
Her father is now finally being treated for his health conditions and the low
costs have allowed Heidy to finish her bachelor's degree.

We have all heard the disheartening stories about Californians who were denied
health insurance because of a "pre-existing" condition or who were dropped from
their insurance because of a serious illness. Many of us even know people who
have to choose between seeking medical care and getting medications or paying
for food or another life necessity. Fortunately, when President Obama signed the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2009 - also known as Obamacare -
these stories became less common.

Now, under the law, you cannot be denied insurance because of a pre-existing
health condition nor can you be dropped from your insurance because you get
sick. More importantly, insurance is more affordable than ever. When the
Affordable Care Act passed in 2009, it created a subsidy for both individuals
and families, which makes health coverage more affordable. The only information
you need to get an estimate and see your health insurance options are your
household income, ZIP code and the ages of those you are enrolling. For example,
a single mom with two kids living in Fontana and making $30,000 a year could get
$149 a month to help pay for health insurance - with multiple plans to choose
from.

But why should you get health insurance? Let me offer three important reasons:

First, the Affordable Care Act requires everyone to have health insurance. Those
who can afford health insurance, but choose to go without it, could pay
penalties of at least $695 per adult and $347.50 per child this year.

Second, health insurance covers many of the costs of preventive care and visits
to the doctor's office. There is no co-pay for preventive care and your first
three visits each year to a primary care doctor, specialist or urgent care will
not be subject to the deductible.

Third, health insurance provides an important safety net in case something
unexpected happens. Not only does it provide better access to health care, but
it also limits the amount that health care will cost. The Bronze and Silver
plans available through Covered California will cover, on average, 60 percent to
70 percent of health care costs respectively and have a cap on the amount of
out-of-pocket costs per year.

Jan. 31 - the last day of the open enrollment period for Covered California - is
just days away. Beyond having the opportunity to sign up for health insurance
coverage and potentially qualify for a subsidized premium during this period,
you can also sign up or change your insurance during the year if a life-changing
event occurs, such as getting married, having a child or even moving.

If you are interested in signing up for health insurance, have questions, or
would simply like help navigating the process, please call my district office at
909-591-7016 to sign up to attend one of our Covered California enrollment
events on Saturday, Jan. 23 from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. at:

o Fontana Lewis Library, 8437 Sierra Ave.; Fontana, or

o Inland Empire Job Corps, 3173 Kerry St.; San Bernardino.

State Sen. Connie M. Leyva, D-Chino, represents the 20th Senate District.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              469 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           January 20, 2016 Wednesday

A chance to get low-cost health insurance

BYLINE: Connie M. Leyva

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 670 words


Heidy's dad suffered from apnea, high blood pressure and other serious health
conditions - none of which he had been able to address because he and his family
lacked health insurance. As a state senator, it is painful to hear that
hardworking Californians - like Heidy and her dad - could go without health
coverage simply because it costs too much. Heidy's dad tried for years to get
health coverage but was unable to afford treatment for his health conditions
because he had to cover basic family costs such as housing, food and other
day-to-day necessities. Luckily, Heidy and her dad were finally able to get
affordable health coverage through Covered California.

"My family was excited when we obtained it and we cannot wait to make our first
doctor's appointment," said Heidy. "It has also allowed me to feel more secure."
Her father is now finally being treated for his health conditions and the low
costs have allowed Heidy to finish her bachelor's degree.

We have all heard the disheartening stories about Californians who were denied
health insurance because of a "pre-existing" condition or who were dropped from
their insurance because of a serious illness. Many of us even know people who
have to choose between seeking medical care and getting medications or paying
for food or another life necessity. Fortunately, when President Obama signed the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2009 - also known as Obamacare -
these stories became less common.

Now, under the law, you cannot be denied insurance because of a pre-existing
health condition nor can you be dropped from your insurance because you get
sick. More importantly, insurance is more affordable than ever. When the
Affordable Care Act passed in 2009, it created a subsidy for both individuals
and families, which makes health coverage more affordable. The only information
you need to get an estimate and see your health insurance options are your
household income, ZIP code and the ages of those you are enrolling. For example,
a single mom with two kids living in Fontana and making $30,000 a year could get
$149 a month to help pay for health insurance - with multiple plans to choose
from.

But why should you get health insurance? Let me offer three important reasons:

First, the Affordable Care Act requires everyone to have health insurance. Those
who can afford health insurance, but choose to go without it, could pay
penalties of at least $695 per adult and $347.50 per child this year.

Second, health insurance covers many of the costs of preventive care and visits
to the doctor's office. There is no co-pay for preventive care and your first
three visits each year to a primary care doctor, specialist or urgent care will
not be subject to the deductible.

Third, health insurance provides an important safety net in case something
unexpected happens. Not only does it provide better access to health care, but
it also limits the amount that health care will cost. The Bronze and Silver
plans available through Covered California will cover, on average, 60 percent to
70 percent of health care costs respectively and have a cap on the amount of
out-of-pocket costs per year.

Jan. 31 - the last day of the open enrollment period for Covered California - is
just days away. Beyond having the opportunity to sign up for health insurance
coverage and potentially qualify for a subsidized premium during this period,
you can also sign up or change your insurance during the year if a life-changing
event occurs, such as getting married, having a child or even moving.

If you are interested in signing up for health insurance, have questions, or
would simply like help navigating the process, please call my district office at
909-591-7016 to sign up to attend one of our Covered California enrollment
events on Saturday, Jan. 23 from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. at:

o Fontana Lewis Library, 8437 Sierra Ave.; Fontana, or

o Inland Empire Job Corps, 3173 Kerry St.; San Bernardino.

State Sen. Connie M. Leyva, D-Chino, represents the 20th Senate District.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              470 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           January 20, 2016 Wednesday

A chance to get low-cost health insurance

BYLINE: Connie M. Leyva

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 670 words


Heidy's dad suffered from apnea, high blood pressure and other serious health
conditions - none of which he had been able to address because he and his family
lacked health insurance. As a state senator, it is painful to hear that
hardworking Californians - like Heidy and her dad - could go without health
coverage simply because it costs too much. Heidy's dad tried for years to get
health coverage but was unable to afford treatment for his health conditions
because he had to cover basic family costs such as housing, food and other
day-to-day necessities. Luckily, Heidy and her dad were finally able to get
affordable health coverage through Covered California.

"My family was excited when we obtained it and we cannot wait to make our first
doctor's appointment," said Heidy. "It has also allowed me to feel more secure."
Her father is now finally being treated for his health conditions and the low
costs have allowed Heidy to finish her bachelor's degree.

We have all heard the disheartening stories about Californians who were denied
health insurance because of a "pre-existing" condition or who were dropped from
their insurance because of a serious illness. Many of us even know people who
have to choose between seeking medical care and getting medications or paying
for food or another life necessity. Fortunately, when President Obama signed the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2009 - also known as Obamacare -
these stories became less common.

Now, under the law, you cannot be denied insurance because of a pre-existing
health condition nor can you be dropped from your insurance because you get
sick. More importantly, insurance is more affordable than ever. When the
Affordable Care Act passed in 2009, it created a subsidy for both individuals
and families, which makes health coverage more affordable. The only information
you need to get an estimate and see your health insurance options are your
household income, ZIP code and the ages of those you are enrolling. For example,
a single mom with two kids living in Fontana and making $30,000 a year could get
$149 a month to help pay for health insurance - with multiple plans to choose
from.

But why should you get health insurance? Let me offer three important reasons:

First, the Affordable Care Act requires everyone to have health insurance. Those
who can afford health insurance, but choose to go without it, could pay
penalties of at least $695 per adult and $347.50 per child this year.

Second, health insurance covers many of the costs of preventive care and visits
to the doctor's office. There is no co-pay for preventive care and your first
three visits each year to a primary care doctor, specialist or urgent care will
not be subject to the deductible.

Third, health insurance provides an important safety net in case something
unexpected happens. Not only does it provide better access to health care, but
it also limits the amount that health care will cost. The Bronze and Silver
plans available through Covered California will cover, on average, 60 percent to
70 percent of health care costs respectively and have a cap on the amount of
out-of-pocket costs per year.

Jan. 31 - the last day of the open enrollment period for Covered California - is
just days away. Beyond having the opportunity to sign up for health insurance
coverage and potentially qualify for a subsidized premium during this period,
you can also sign up or change your insurance during the year if a life-changing
event occurs, such as getting married, having a child or even moving.

If you are interested in signing up for health insurance, have questions, or
would simply like help navigating the process, please call my district office at
909-591-7016 to sign up to attend one of our Covered California enrollment
events on Saturday, Jan. 23 from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. at:

o Fontana Lewis Library, 8437 Sierra Ave.; Fontana, or

o Inland Empire Job Corps, 3173 Kerry St.; San Bernardino.

State Sen. Connie M. Leyva, D-Chino, represents the 20th Senate District.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              471 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           January 20, 2016 Wednesday

A chance to get low-cost health insurance

BYLINE: Connie M. Leyva

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 670 words


Heidy's dad suffered from apnea, high blood pressure and other serious health
conditions - none of which he had been able to address because he and his family
lacked health insurance. As a state senator, it is painful to hear that
hardworking Californians - like Heidy and her dad - could go without health
coverage simply because it costs too much. Heidy's dad tried for years to get
health coverage but was unable to afford treatment for his health conditions
because he had to cover basic family costs such as housing, food and other
day-to-day necessities. Luckily, Heidy and her dad were finally able to get
affordable health coverage through Covered California.

"My family was excited when we obtained it and we cannot wait to make our first
doctor's appointment," said Heidy. "It has also allowed me to feel more secure."
Her father is now finally being treated for his health conditions and the low
costs have allowed Heidy to finish her bachelor's degree.

We have all heard the disheartening stories about Californians who were denied
health insurance because of a "pre-existing" condition or who were dropped from
their insurance because of a serious illness. Many of us even know people who
have to choose between seeking medical care and getting medications or paying
for food or another life necessity. Fortunately, when President Obama signed the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2009 - also known as Obamacare -
these stories became less common.

Now, under the law, you cannot be denied insurance because of a pre-existing
health condition nor can you be dropped from your insurance because you get
sick. More importantly, insurance is more affordable than ever. When the
Affordable Care Act passed in 2009, it created a subsidy for both individuals
and families, which makes health coverage more affordable. The only information
you need to get an estimate and see your health insurance options are your
household income, ZIP code and the ages of those you are enrolling. For example,
a single mom with two kids living in Fontana and making $30,000 a year could get
$149 a month to help pay for health insurance - with multiple plans to choose
from.

But why should you get health insurance? Let me offer three important reasons:

First, the Affordable Care Act requires everyone to have health insurance. Those
who can afford health insurance, but choose to go without it, could pay
penalties of at least $695 per adult and $347.50 per child this year.

Second, health insurance covers many of the costs of preventive care and visits
to the doctor's office. There is no co-pay for preventive care and your first
three visits each year to a primary care doctor, specialist or urgent care will
not be subject to the deductible.

Third, health insurance provides an important safety net in case something
unexpected happens. Not only does it provide better access to health care, but
it also limits the amount that health care will cost. The Bronze and Silver
plans available through Covered California will cover, on average, 60 percent to
70 percent of health care costs respectively and have a cap on the amount of
out-of-pocket costs per year.

Jan. 31 - the last day of the open enrollment period for Covered California - is
just days away. Beyond having the opportunity to sign up for health insurance
coverage and potentially qualify for a subsidized premium during this period,
you can also sign up or change your insurance during the year if a life-changing
event occurs, such as getting married, having a child or even moving.

If you are interested in signing up for health insurance, have questions, or
would simply like help navigating the process, please call my district office at
909-591-7016 to sign up to attend one of our Covered California enrollment
events on Saturday, Jan. 23 from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. at:

o Fontana Lewis Library, 8437 Sierra Ave.; Fontana, or

o Inland Empire Job Corps, 3173 Kerry St.; San Bernardino.

State Sen. Connie M. Leyva, D-Chino, represents the 20th Senate District.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              472 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                US Official News

                            November 9, 2015 Monday

FEDERAL REGISTER: National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program: Revised Amount
of the Average Cost of a Health Insurance Policy

LENGTH: 428  words

DATELINE: Lahore



    Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:




   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Resources and Services
Administration National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program: Revised Amount of
the Average Cost of a Health Insurance Policy The Health Resources and Services
Administration (HRSA) is publishing an updated monetary amount of the average
cost of a health insurance policy as it relates to the National Vaccine Injury
Compensation Program (VICP). Section 100.2 of the VICP's implementing regulation
(42 CFR part 100) states that the revised amount of the average cost of a health
insurance policy, as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
is effective upon its delivery to the United States Court of Federal Claims (the
Court), and will be published periodically in a notice in the Federal Register.
This figure is calculated using the most recent Medical Expenditure Panel
Survey-Insurance Component (MEPS- IC) data available as the baseline for the
average monthly cost of a health insurance policy. This baseline is adjusted by
the annual percentage increase/decrease obtained from the most recent annual
Kaiser Family Foundation and Health Research and Educational Trust (KFF/HRET)
Employer Health Benefits survey or other authoritative source that may be more
accurate or appropriate. In 2015, MEPS-IC, available at www.meps.ahrq.gov,
published the annual 2014 average total single premium amount per enrolled
employee at private-sector establishments that provide health insurance.

   The figure published was $5,832. This figure is divided by 12-months to
determine the cost per month of $486.00. The $486.00 shall be increased or
decreased by the percentage change reported by the most recent KFF/ HRET,
available at www.kff.org. The percentage increase from 2014 to 2015 was
published at 4 percent. By adding this percentage increase, the calculated
average monthly cost of a health insurance policy in 2015 is $505.44. Therefore,
the Secretary of Health and Human Services announces that the revised average
cost of a health insurance policy under the VICP is $505.44 per month. In
accordance with Sec. 100.2, the revised amount was effective upon its delivery
by the Secretary to the Court. Such notice was delivered to the Court on October
23, 2015. Dated: November 3, 2015. James Macrae, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc.
2015-28436 Filed 11-6-15; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4165-15-P



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              473 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily News of Newburyport (Massachusetts)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

Unions object to cost sharing on health insurance

BYLINE: Angeljean Chiaramida, The Daily News of Newburyport, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 558 words


Jan. 07--SEABROOK -- The failure of the town's union employees to agree to cost
sharing on their health insurance benefits could result in no contracts and no
raises in the coming year.

According to selectmen, after months of collective bargaining sessions with
negotiators for the four town employee unions, there's been a lack of
capitulation on the unions' parts to sharing some part of the cost taxpayers
bear for their medical benefits. At a standstill is movement to share premium
costs or allow deductibles for medical expenses or co-payments for doctor's
visits and prescription costs.

Employees have not paid a cent toward their health insurance or health care
costs since the town went with the Lumenos insurance plan, according to
selectmen.

Given that employee medical insurance is a $3.2 million cost in the town's $20
million budget, selectmen set as a goal in this year that employees pitch in to
help pay for the plan that covers 100 percent of all medical expenses as part of
their contracts.

Prior to Seabrook going with Lumenos, some of the town's unions agreed to pay a
portion of their premiums of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans known as JY
and Blue Choice.  However, in 2012, in an effort to lower ever-rising premiums,
selectmen looked for a new option, finding Anthem BC/BS's Lumenos plan. It was
projected to save the town at least $750,000 over three years.

At the time of the switch, officials said Lumenos provided the same or better
coverage than JY and Blue Choice plans, but at lower premium costs because it's
a high-deductible plan. An example cited was that by switching from the Blue
Choice plan, premiums would drop by 34 percent, representing a gross annual
savings of $1.1 million.

Lumenos offers family and two-person plans with the first $5,000 deductible and
individual plans with $2,500 deductibles. In the current system, employees don't
pay the deductible, the town does, through third-party-administered accounts for
each employee.

But the savings anticipated haven't really materialized. The first year after
the switch premiums rose 26 percent. In November, Manzi learned projected
premiums would be lowered by about $600,000 next year, not a huge amount but
going in the right directions.

Yet, as selectmen contemplate putting together budgets in years to come and
listening to taxpayers complain about rising rates, they believe town employees
-- like most elsewhere -- should help pay for their health insurance costs.

With selectmen sticking to their guns as of Monday and with the warrant deadline
of Jan. 13 approaching, no union contracts had been settled because of the
health insurance and cost-sharing issue, they said.

"We've come close with some unions," Manzi said. "The selectmen had a tentative
agreement with the police union, but when it was taken to the members, they
rejected it. We appear to be close with the Seabrook Supervisory Employee Union.
We're meeting with them (Tuesday afternoon). We have meetings with other unions
this week."

If the impasse over medical benefits can't be reached in a timely manner,
selectmen said on Monday there would be no new contracts this year, meaning no
raises.

___ (c)2015 The Daily News of Newburyport (Newburyport, Mass.) Visit The Daily
News of Newburyport (Newburyport, Mass.) at www.newburyportnews.com Distributed
by Tribune Content Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150107-ZN-Unions-object-to-cost-sharing-on-health-insurance
-0107-20150107

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZN


                  Copyright 2015 The Daily News of Newburyport


                              474 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                            February 13, 2012 Monday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

HIRING AND FIRING HEALTH INSURERS

BYLINE: WILLIAM L. HOLAHAN, CHARLES O. KRONCKE

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 687 words


When Mitt Romney said "I like to be able to fire people who provide services to
me," rivals and pundits seized upon this seemingly crass comment and the evident
glee with which it was uttered. Footage of this gaffe will roll again and again.

But Romney was actually explaining how important it is for all of us to be able
to switch health insurance providers if we can find better service or lower
price. This "hiring and firing" is key to competitive efficiency. In a
competitive market, buyers can shop around and switch to a better seller, a
process familiar to those with cellphones, cars, in restaurants, etc. When
consumers can choose among sellers on the basis of price and quality, it forces
sellers to compete by offering good quality at a price in line with other
sellers and without excessive profits.

COMPETITION.Does the market for health insurance provide such an opportunity to
hire and fire? The simple answer is no. The services of a health insurer aren't
needed until an injury or illness occurs; at that point, choice is severely
limited. Consumers will find that their "pre-existing condition" will deter a
new insurer from covering that ailment - if they are willing to issue a policy
at all.

Choice is further limited for many workers because their health insurance is
part of a compensation package tied to their employment. Usually their employers
approve just one or two providers. Moreover, in many states, the health
insurance markets are highly concentrated, so the prerequisite for competition -
many sellers from which to choose - is nonexistent. Firing an insurance provider
is not an option if there are no competitors to hire.

Even where there are plenty of insurers, competition in insurance markets
presents another problem: The hiring/firing process forces insurers to charge
"experience-rated" premiums. That is, they charge higher premiums for those
likely to cost the company more money.

Experience rating is most familiar in automobile insurance: Drivers likely to
cost the company more - those with an accident history, speeding tickets, or DUI
infractions - will be charged higher premiums or, if their record is bad enough,
simply be denied coverage. It is easy to see why insurance companies will charge
experience-rated premiums - imagine if they didn't.

If insurers did not charge high-cost drivers more, they would have to recoup
their costs by raising rates on lower-cost drivers. Next, competing insurance
companies would offer the lower-cost drivers a lower premium, thus encouraging
them to fire their current provider and hire their firm. This process of hiring
and firing results in experience rating: higher rates for high-cost drivers and
lower rates for low-cost drivers

While it is perfectly acceptable that high-cost drivers pay higher premiums for
car insurance, charging higher health insurance premiums for sick people is not.
While the road system is designed for the cautious driver, the health care
system is designed to help sick people and to prevent healthy people from
becoming sick. To insure sick people the same way we insure drunk drivers is
perverse.

INSURANCE EXCHANGES. Both the Massachusetts Health Care Plan, enacted when Mitt
Romney was governor, and the Affordable Care Act, signed into law by President
Barack Obama, require that health insurance be sold in regulated exchanges. The
purpose of these exchanges is to protect those in need of health insurance
against the natural tendency of unregulated competitive firms to charge
experience-based premiums. To have access to the market, insurers must agree not
to deny coverage for pre-existing conditions or to raise premiums to
unreasonable levels when people get sick. Within the exchanges, citizens can
hire and fire companies based on the way they provide the regulated insurance
services; they can fire the company that provides poor service, but the company
cannot fire the person who gets sick.

Charles O. Kroncke, far left, is associate dean in the University of South
Florida College of Business. William L. Holahan chairs the department of
economics at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Republican candidate Mitt Romney said, "I like to be able to
fire people who provide services to me." But in health insurance, that is often
not possible.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2012 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              475 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 31, 2016 Monday

Pennsylvania State Legislature Bill: HOUSE BILL No. 1698

LENGTH: 580  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania State Legislature has issued the following bill
updates:




   abuse-deterrent opioid analgesic drug product per opioid

   analgesic active ingredient., THEN A HEALTH INSURANCE CARRIER OR

   HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN SHALL PROVIDE COVERAGE FOR AT LEAST THREE

   ABUSE-DETERRENT OPIOID ANALGESIC DRUG PRODUCTS IN A MANNER THAT

   PRESERVES THERAPEUTIC CHOICE FOR PRESCRIBERS AND PATIENTS.



   (b) Cost-sharing.--The following apply:

   (1) Cost-sharing for brand name abuse-deterrent opioid

   analgesic drug products shall not exceed the lowest cost-

   sharing level applied to brand name prescription drugs

   covered under the health insurance plan.

   (2) Cost-sharing for generic abuse-deterrent opioid

   analgesic drug products shall not exceed the lowest cost-

   sharing level applied to generic prescription drugs covered

   under the health insurance plan.

   (3) An increase in cost-sharing or other disincentives

   for prescribers or dispensers may not be used to achieve

   compliance with this section.

   Section 5. Utilization management.

   (a) Prohibition.--A health insurance carrier or health

   insurance plan shall not require an insured or enrollee to first

   use a AN OPIOID ANALGESIC drug product that is not an abuse-

   deterrent opioid analgesic drug product before providing

   coverage for an abuse-deterrent opioid analgesic drug product.

   (b) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be

   construed to prevent a health insurance carrier or health

   insurance plan from applying utilization review requirements,

   including prior authorization, to abuse-deterrent opioid

   analgesic drug products if the requirements are applied to all

   opioid analgesic drug products with the same type of drug

   release, immediate or extended.

   20160HB1698PN4119  - 4 -

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   1

   2

   3

   4

   5

   6

   7

   8

   9

   10

   11

   12

   13

   14

   15

   16

   17

   18

   19

   20

   21

   22

   23

   24

   25

   26

   27

   28

   29

   30

 SECTION 6. PRESCRIBING.
 (A) GUIDELINES.--THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SHALL ADOPT
 MANDATORY, EVIDENCE-BASED GUIDELINES FOR PRESCRIBING ABUSE-
 DETERRENT PRESCRIPTION OPIOIDS. THE GUIDELINES SHALL BE
 PUBLISHED IN THE PENNSYLVANIA BULLETIN.
 (B) EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS.--THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SHALL
 DEVELOP EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS TO EXPLAIN THE RISKS ASSOCIATED
 WITH ALL OPIOIDS NOTWITHSTANDING THEIR ABUSE-DETERRENT LABELING.
 PRESCRIBERS SHALL DISTRIBUTE THESE MATERIALS WITH EVERY OPIOID
 PRESCRIPTION REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THE OPIOID BEING PRESCRIBED
 HAS ABUSE-DETERRENT PROPERTIES.
 Section 6 7. Applicability.
 This act shall apply as follows:
 (1) For health insurance plans for which rates or forms
 are required to be filed with the Insurance Department or the
 Federal Government, this act shall apply to a policy for
 which a form or rate is filed FIRST PERMITTED TO BE USED on
 or after the effective date of this section.
 (2) For health insurance plans for which rates or forms
 are not required to be filed with the Insurance Department or
 the Federal Government, this act shall apply to a policy
 issued or renewed on or after 180 days after the effective
 date of this section.
 Section 7 8. Effective date.
 This act shall take effect in 60 days




 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              476 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 31, 2016 Monday

Pennsylvania State Legislature Bill: HOUSE BILL No. 1698

LENGTH: 580  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania State Legislature has issued the following bill
updates:




   abuse-deterrent opioid analgesic drug product per opioid

   analgesic active ingredient., THEN A HEALTH INSURANCE CARRIER OR

   HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN SHALL PROVIDE COVERAGE FOR AT LEAST THREE

   ABUSE-DETERRENT OPIOID ANALGESIC DRUG PRODUCTS IN A MANNER THAT

   PRESERVES THERAPEUTIC CHOICE FOR PRESCRIBERS AND PATIENTS.



   (b) Cost-sharing.--The following apply:

   (1) Cost-sharing for brand name abuse-deterrent opioid

   analgesic drug products shall not exceed the lowest cost-

   sharing level applied to brand name prescription drugs

   covered under the health insurance plan.

   (2) Cost-sharing for generic abuse-deterrent opioid

   analgesic drug products shall not exceed the lowest cost-

   sharing level applied to generic prescription drugs covered

   under the health insurance plan.

   (3) An increase in cost-sharing or other disincentives

   for prescribers or dispensers may not be used to achieve

   compliance with this section.

   Section 5. Utilization management.

   (a) Prohibition.--A health insurance carrier or health

   insurance plan shall not require an insured or enrollee to first

   use a AN OPIOID ANALGESIC drug product that is not an abuse-

   deterrent opioid analgesic drug product before providing

   coverage for an abuse-deterrent opioid analgesic drug product.

   (b) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be

   construed to prevent a health insurance carrier or health

   insurance plan from applying utilization review requirements,

   including prior authorization, to abuse-deterrent opioid

   analgesic drug products if the requirements are applied to all

   opioid analgesic drug products with the same type of drug

   release, immediate or extended.

   20160HB1698PN4119  - 4 -

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   <--

   1

   2

   3

   4

   5

   6

   7

   8

   9

   10

   11

   12

   13

   14

   15

   16

   17

   18

   19

   20

   21

   22

   23

   24

   25

   26

   27

   28

   29

   30

 SECTION 6. PRESCRIBING.
 (A) GUIDELINES.--THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SHALL ADOPT
 MANDATORY, EVIDENCE-BASED GUIDELINES FOR PRESCRIBING ABUSE-
 DETERRENT PRESCRIPTION OPIOIDS. THE GUIDELINES SHALL BE
 PUBLISHED IN THE PENNSYLVANIA BULLETIN.
 (B) EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS.--THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SHALL
 DEVELOP EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS TO EXPLAIN THE RISKS ASSOCIATED
 WITH ALL OPIOIDS NOTWITHSTANDING THEIR ABUSE-DETERRENT LABELING.
 PRESCRIBERS SHALL DISTRIBUTE THESE MATERIALS WITH EVERY OPIOID
 PRESCRIPTION REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THE OPIOID BEING PRESCRIBED
 HAS ABUSE-DETERRENT PROPERTIES.
 Section 6 7. Applicability.
 This act shall apply as follows:
 (1) For health insurance plans for which rates or forms
 are required to be filed with the Insurance Department or the
 Federal Government, this act shall apply to a policy for
 which a form or rate is filed FIRST PERMITTED TO BE USED on
 or after the effective date of this section.
 (2) For health insurance plans for which rates or forms
 are not required to be filed with the Insurance Department or
 the Federal Government, this act shall apply to a policy
 issued or renewed on or after 180 days after the effective
 date of this section.
 Section 7 8. Effective date.
 This act shall take effect in 60 days




 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              477 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                              May 8, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Reilly pays (EURO)1.7m for 24 reports (but keeps them secret)

BYLINE: Ferghal Blaney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 655 words


JAMES Reilly is sitting on a batch of 24 consultants' reports into the health
service that cost the taxpayer (EURO)1.7million. They include four reports -
costing close to (EURO)500,000 - in health insurance reform, all of which remain
unpublished, even though the Health Minister is pressing ahead with his reforms
in the area.

The Irish Daily Mail has also learned that Dr Reilly has commissioned a total of
48 reports since he came to office three years ago and that astonishingly half
of these have effectively been sitting gathering dust on his desk as they have
been completed but not published. The total cost of these 24 reports comes to
(EURO)1.7million, but the single issue that has cost the taxpayer the most has
been reports prepared for the minister on the topic of reforming private health
insurance. Almost half a million euro has been paid to consultants Goodbody
Stockbrokers and Matheson Ormsby Prentice Solicitors for four research and
advice reports. However taxpayers, who have footed the entire bill for these
pricey studies, have yet to see a single page of the reports they paid for. The
authors of the reports cannot comment on their contents without the prior
consent of the commissioning body - in this case the Department of Health.

An expert in the field said that with the amount of money that was spent on the
various studies, it was about time that the department started acting upon the
advice contained therein.

Fianna Fáil health spokesman Billy Kelleher said it was incredible that these
reports haven't been published as the crisis in health insurance continues, and
he called on Dr Reilly to provide a timeline for their publication.

'It's extremely concerning that Minister Reilly is sitting on so many completed
reports relating to a range of important health issues that directly affect the
public,' Mr Kelleher said.

He added: 'As Minister Reilly forges ahead with his plans to hit families across
the country with expensive compulsory health insurance, it is incredible that he
hasn't seen fit to publish reports that could provide a valuable insight into
restructuring the health insurance market. It is not good enough they are just
gathering dust on Minister Reilly's desk.' Universal health insurance is now set
as one of the cornerstones of Dr Reilly and the Government's health manifesto
for the next few years.

The ambitious target of 2018 for the universal introduction has been set by the
minister.

As a precursor, Dr Reilly is pressing ahead with bringing in free GP care for
all under sixes this summer, although agreement has still not been reached with
the country's GPs on this.

A spokesman for the Department of Health said they could not comment on the
reports for legal, policy and commercially sensitive reasons.

Of the other 24 reports sitting idle in Health, aside from the health insurance
memos, they include investigations into matters such management in the HSE,
which cost (EURO)182,890, and a report on symphysiotomies in Ireland between
1944 and 1984, at a cost of (EURO)49,500 that has not yet been released to the
public.

ferghal.blaney@dailymail.ie

'They are gathering dust'

THE UNPUBLISHED INSURANCE MEMOS Completed reports on health insurance remaining
unpublished

DESCRIPTION CONSULTANTS YEAR COST Review of the Irish private health Goodbody
and 2011 (EURO)300,080 insurance market in relation to Matheson Ormsby the
options which may exist for Prentice rebalancing Options appraisal of
multi-payer Matheson Ormsby 2012 (EURO)6,150 universal health insurance models
Prentice preliminary advice Further analysis of options in Goodbody and 2012
(EURO)62,349 relation to the restructuring of Matheson Ormsby the Irish private
health insurance Prentice market Legal research and advisory Matheson Ormsby
2013 (EURO)123,000 services on the design and Prentice implementation of an
insurancebased health system providing universal coverage in Ireland TOTAL COST
(EURO)491,579

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Insurance reforms: Dr James Reilly

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2014 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              478 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             July 27, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Metro Edition

Mandates push health insurance rates up and up

BYLINE: Katherine Kersten, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Katherine Kersten; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 629 words


Amy Klobuchar's U.S. Senate campaign has just launched a new TV ad. In it, she
laments that when her daughter was born, her health care provider had the nerve
to make her leave the hospital after 24 hours, although the baby was sick and
had to stay longer.

That was about 10 years ago. The ad shows that Klobuchar's daughter is just fine
now, and, taking after her mom, is becoming a bright and spirited young woman.

Klobuchar didn't just sit and fret over her short hospital stay, according to
the ad. She testified before the Minnesota Legislature and "got one of the first
laws in the country passed guaranteeing new moms and their babies a 48-hour
hospital stay."

Her story hit home with me. I, too, benefited from a 48-hour hospital stay after
one of my children was born. I won't deny that I was pleased that my health
insurance covered it.

Over the years, our Legislature has heard hundreds of moving stories like
Klobuchar's. As a result, Minnesota now has more health insurance mandates than
almost any other state - over 60 and counting. An insurer selling health
coverage to an employer or individual in Minnesota must now include everything
from hearing aids to chiropractic care to hairpieces.

But there's a catch. While candidate Klobuchar trumpets her success in creating
a health care mandate, she also frequently decries the high cost of health care
in Minnesota. Could success on the mandate front compound the cost problem?

The fact is, the cost of all these mandates adds up. In recent decades we've
created a standardized roster of benefits - some quite expensive - that everyone
covered by the mandates must buy, regardless of whether they need them or want
to pay for them. A sizable number of people are being priced out of the health
care market.

Many factors affect the cost of health insurance, but mandates are one cost
-driver.

Merrill Mathews, director of the Council for Affordable Health Insurance,
describes the problem this way:  "Coverage with lots of mandates is like a
Cadillac with options," he says. "It's great if you want it and can afford it.
But if you can't, you have to walk."

State Sen. Brian LeClair, a member of the Senate Health and Human Services
Budget Committee, builds on the automobile analogy. "We should mandate seat
belts. But should we mandate leather upholstery and four-wheel drive? When it
comes to health care, many people would find that a standard Buick works for
them. What we need in this state is health insurance flexibility and choice."

Take the case of a healthy young single man, just out of school. He may not want
maternity coverage, mental health benefits or a hearing aid. But in Minnesota,
if he wants health insurance, he has to pay for all these and more. As a result,
he may decide not to buy health insurance at all.

Small businesses, which employ a significant part of our state's workforce, are
especially hard hit by Minnesota's mandates.

"Mandates - especially mental health, chemical dependency and maternity coverage
- may add close to 20 percent to the cost of health insurance here," says Mike
Hickey, state director of the National Federation of Independent Business.
"Small employers won't offer health insurance if it threatens their financial
stability."

Hickey thinks reform is long past due. "We need to stop three decades of costly
mandates," he says. "Our goal now should be to make health insurance more
affordable."

Katherine Kersten - kkersten@startribune.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2006



CORRECTION: This column cited a few examples of the many health care benefits
mandated for insurers selling coverage to Minnesota individuals or employers.
Hairpieces are mandated only for people who lose all their hair because of
alopecia areata, and hearing aids are mandated only for people younger than 18.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2006 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              479 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 26, 2011 Sunday

Benefits costs pound away at schools, municipalities

BYLINE: Julian Emerson, The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 2203 words


June 26--When government officials in Eau Claire and elsewhere around Wisconsin
decided decades ago to provide retirees with government-paid health insurance
and, in some cases, other retirement benefits, it seemed like a good deal.

After all, when many of those retirement amenities -- known as other post
employment benefits, or OPED -- were added to traditional retiree pension plans,
local officials here and elsewhere determined their cost was often less than
paying those workers higher salaries or other compensation. Health insurance
costs were relatively cheap, and other retirement benefits didn't break the
budget.

How times have changed.

Driven by fast-rising health insurance premiums and a failure to budget
sufficiently for future retiree benefits, the cost of paying for current and
future retired workers has far outstripped the capacity of many local
governments' ability to do so, creating OPEB deficits that, along with spending
limits and reduced state aid, threaten the ability of some of those entities to
continue to provide services at the level they have in the past.

In the Eau Claire school district, the cost of paying retirement benefits for
retirees who haven't yet qualified for Medicare and for current employees totals
$86.63 million. That figure is expected to grow until it peaks in 2023 at
$119.15 million and then begins to decline. Taxpayers are projected to pay
$282.86 million between now and 2050 to fund retiree costs.

"It is a very real issue, and something we have to account for," said Dan Van De
Water, the school district's business director.

The Eau Claire district isn't alone among local governments and elsewhere across
the U.S. that have seen the cost of providing benefits for retirees rise
significantly over time. As of the end of last year, the OPEB tab for the city
of Eau Claire totaled $48.9 million, or $3 million more than its employee
payroll for that year. Chippewa Valley Technical College also has experienced
higher OPEB costs, with that figure rising from $9 million in 2006 to $13
million three years later, the last time the cost was totaled. Eau Claire County
doesn't pay for its employees' health insurance after they retire, but the
county still has an unfunded liability of $877,000.

The cost of OPEBs for local governments in Eau Claire was noted in the April
edition of fedgazette, a publication of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis.
The article noted the relatively high OPEB levels locally, although the story
noted those costs are higher in some other states, such as Michigan and New
York.

"For example, in the regions of both La Crosse and Eau Claire, significant OPEBs
were present for the city, school district and local technical college," the
article states.

Opinions about the seriousness of unfunded liabilities differ. Some local
government leaders and politicians say unfunded liability figures aren't
necessarily as bad as they may appear because they are an accounting of not only
current but future retirees. Local governments don't need to have all that money
on hand at any given time, making the sometimes-large liability figures appear
worse than they are.

However, others believe those local governments facing significant unfunded
liabilities are treading a dangerous path. Dale Knapp, research director with
the nonpartisan Wisconsin Taxpayers Alliance, said relatively large retiree
payments -- those at 4 or 5 percent of total payroll or more -- are significant
because they represent money not available to those governments to pay for the
services they provide.

Spending more for retiree costs is especially perilous to local governments in
the current climate in which costs are rising at the same time spending is
capped and state aid is being reduced, he said.

"This issue is especially important right now," Knapp said. "Budgets are really
getting squeezed, and the more money you have going to current and future
retirees, the less you have for other programs. That leads to some very
difficult budget decisions."

Funding woes

Most local governments in Wisconsin provide retirees with health insurance and
often other retirement benefits. Taxpayers supporting those governments
typically have paid the majority of retirement benefits until those former
employees become eligible for Medicare.

As health insurance premiums spiraled upward, many local governments found
themselves unable to pay the full cost of current and future retirement benefits
while at the same time continuing current service levels. With retiree costs
eating up a greater portion of local budgets, OPEBs have come under attack as
unsustainable in current budget times.

"Given the budget pressures many (local governments) face, you have to wonder
whether they can afford to continue to do this," Knapp said.

While she acknowledges their growing cost, Eau Claire school board President
Carol Craig said local governments owe their retirees those benefits.

"We made a commitment to those people to provide them with this kind of
benefit," she said, noting the district in 2008 changed the way it funds OPEB
costs for newly hired employees, reducing future retirement benefit costs.

In past years, governments weren't required to account for the future cost of
OPEBs as part of their budgets. That changed in 2004, when the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board, which establishes standards of accounting and
financial reporting for state and local governments, ordered that by the end of
2009 governments had to identify that cost liability. However, the regulation
does not require governments to fund OPEBs.

Setting aside money in a trust fund or other account would allow governments to
use investment earnings to help pay for future OPEB costs. But doing so in the
current climate of ongoing budget cuts, spending limits and state aid reductions
isn't feasible, several local government officials said.

Instead, most governments, including the Eau Claire school district, the city of
Eau Claire and CVTC, cover retire health care costs on a pay-as-you-go basis.

For example, during the recently concluded school year, the Eau Claire school
district spent $4.37 million toward OPEBs, less than half of the $9.93 million
that would be needed to fully fund the estimated cost of current and future
retirees for the year, according to a study compiled for the district by
Blackburn Actuarial of Tampa, Fla.

The district's OPEB cost is projected to remain above $9 million annually until
2020, when it dips to $8.93 million. Meanwhile, the total district taxpayers are
scheduled to pay for the unfunded liability is projected to rise by several
hundred thousand dollars annually in upcoming years, peaking at $10.67 million
in 2032.

"That money is going to have to come from somewhere, and it likely will be at
the expense of staff and programs," Knapp said.

Van De Water said paying the full annual OPEB cost, given current spending
limits and state aid reductions, simply isn't realistic if the district is to
retain its staff and programs.

"That would have a very onerous impact on our district," Van De Water said.
"Realistically, the district is locked into pay-as-you-go for as long as revenue
limits are in place."

OPEBs rising

The school district isn't the only local government struggling to contain
growing OPEBs. The city of Eau Claire also has seen its OPEB total rise as it
has continued to pay for that cost on a pay-as-you-go basis, which covers some
but not all the city's actuarial retirement cost.

Last year the city paid $2.38 million for retiree health plans, or about 5
percent of the city's $45.9 million payroll, finance director Rebecca Noland
said. Coming up with additional money to pay more for future retirement costs
would prove difficult, given the city's budget constraints.

Likewise, CVTC also is experiencing a growing OPEBs cost, with that figure
having grown by $4 million to $13 million between 2006 and 2009. Putting more
money toward paying off the college's growing OPEB liability would mean taking
money from other programs at a time when state aid to Wisconsin's technical
colleges is being reduced.

"It's a matter of living in a world of scare resources and making tough
decisions about where we're going to spend that money," said Kirk Moist, CVTC
finance and budget director.

Of local governments in the Chippewa Valley, Eau Claire County appears to be in
the best situation regarding OPEBs, mainly because the county doesn't pay health
insurance for its retirees. The county provides up to 720 hours of qualified
employees' salaries toward health insurance once they retire, but that total is
paid for on an annual basis and does not contribute to a liability.

"We're fortunate," county Administrator J. Thomas McCarty said. "For us, it is
not a huge issue."

However, the county has an actuarial liability of $877,000 based on the fact
county retirees can buy into the county health insurance plan, adding older
members to the plan and likely driving up the cost. The county's $877,000 OPEB
cost isn't projected to rise substantially in future years, finance director
Scott Rasmussen said, in large part because as health insurance premiums rise
fewer retirees buy into the plan.

Curbing costs

As fast-rising health insurance costs have caused OPEBs to skyrocket, local
government leaders have tried to curb insurance premium increases.

Those efforts appear to have been successful. Dale Peters, Eau Claire's human
resources director, noted that health insurance increases have dropped
significantly since the city renegotiated contracts with union employees four
years ago that provided incentives for workers to take part in an
illness-prevention program. In fact, the city's health insurance cost were
flat-lined from a year ago.

"Our insurance premiums stopped rising so rapidly, and our employees are
healthier," Peters said.

The Eau Claire school district and CVTC took similar steps. They have negotiated
higher employee health insurance premiums and co-payments and instituted
illness-prevention programs that have improved workers' health while slowing
annual health insurance premium increases.

"The elephant in the room is the cost of health insurance premiums," CVTC's
Moist said. "We can't choose what providers charge us, but we have created (an
employee) wellness plan to try to control those costs."

Local governments have another means of curbing OPEB costs they would rather
avoid: getting by with fewer employees. The city has about two dozen fewer
workers than it did during the 1980s, despite a much larger demand for services,
Noland said. Other local governments also have left positions vacant or
eliminated them because of budget constraints.

Uncertain future

While there is little doubt OPEB costs significantly affect local government
budgets, their future impact is difficult to gauge because OPEB projections
include so many variables.

Craig is concerned about the school district's large OPEB cost, but she doesn't
believe that total will be as dire as projected because of efforts to curb
health insurance premiums and employees paying a greater portion of that cost.
In addition, the school board recently directed district officials to establish
a trust fund, which is projected to boost interest earnings on district
investments to help pay OPEB costs.

Likewise, Noland said city OPEB costs may not be as high as forecast. For
example, the city's OPEBs were determined based on an assumption that health
insurance costs would rise 9.3 percent annually. But changes to the city's
health care plan may well reduce that figure long term, as seen by the fact that
figure remained flat from last year to this year.

Regardless of how OPEB totals play out, Knapp, the Wisconsin Taxpayers Alliance
research director, said growing budget pressures combined with legislation
included in the 2011-13 state budget Gov. Scott Walker is scheduled to sign
today that do away with most public sector worker collective bargaining rights
will force continued employee concessions.

"Most governments are finding it difficult to pay for their retirees as that
cost grows, and given what has happened in Madison, I think (employee
concessions) are inevitable," Knapp said.

Emerson can be reached at 715-830-5911, 800-236-7077 or julian.emerson@ecpc.com

What are OPEBs?

OPEBs, or other post employment benefits, refers to the total cost at any given
date of paying all retirement costs for retirees not yet receiving Medicare as
well for the future retirement cost of current employees.

Retirement costs differ for different retiree groups but often include health
and dental insurance and sometimes other benefits, such as stipends or other
payouts. The projected OPEB cost is based on a number of factors such as
predicted future health insurance increases, employment levels and mortality
rates.

OPEBs do not include pension plans, such as the Wisconsin Retirement System.

To see more of The Leader-Telegram or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.leadertelegram.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Leader-Telegram, Eau
Claire, Wis. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110626-EW-Benefits-costs
-pound-away-at-schools-municipalities-0626-20110626

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                       Copyright 2011 The Leader-Telegram


                              480 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        The Banner (Bernice, Louisiana)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               September 26, 2013

Getting ready for the Health Insurance Marketplace: Seven things you can do now

BYLINE: The Banner staff

LENGTH: 551  words


Over the past several months, buzz words like "health reform" and "insurance
marketplaces" have filled the media. But what exactly do they mean and how do
they impact you? The Health Insurance Marketplace is a key part of the health
reform law that will make health insurance more accessible to people across the
country, beginning October 1.

Think of the Marketplace as an online travel site like Hotwire or Priceline,
where people can compare, view and purchase various health insurance products
that have been approved by their state and/or the federal government. Everything
is very transparent, and insurance plans must treat you fairly. They cannot deny
you coverage because of a pre-existing condition. In addition, every plan must
cover basic health services, including visits to the doctor, hospitalizations,
maternity care and prescriptions.

And even more good news, the government is providing increased opportunities to
lower the cost of health insurance, making it more affordable and providing low-
cost options to many people.

So how do you learn more and get ready for the Marketplace to open? There are
seven simple things you can do now to get ready for October 1:

1) Learn about different types of health insurance. Through the Marketplace,
you'll be able to choose a health plan that gives you the right balance of costs
and coverage.

2) Make a list of questions you have before it's time to choose your health
plan. For example, "Can I stay with my current doctor?" or "Can I use my local
hospital?" or "Will this plan cover my health costs when I'm traveling?"

3) Make sure you understand how insurance works, including deductibles,
out-of-pocket maximums, copayments, etc. You'll want to consider these details
while you're shopping around.

4) Start gathering basic information about your household income. You mayqualify
for a break on the cost of your health insurance, so you'll need income
information to find out if you're eligible for a discount.

5) Set your budget.

There will be different types of health plans to meet a variety of needs and
budgets, and breaking them down by cost can help narrow your choices.

6) Find out from your employer whether they plan to offer health insurance. This
is especially important if you work for a small business.

7) Explore current options. You may be able to get help with insurance now,
through existing programs or changes that are in effect already from the new
health care law. Visit www.HealthCare.gov for information about health insurance
for adults up to age 26, children in families with limited incomes(CHIP), and
Medicare for people who are over 65 or have disabilities 'Resources from
HealthCare.gov.

The best place for the latest, most accurate information on the Marketplace is
www.HealthCare.gov. Here you can get updates, learn about the application
process, and find out detailed information state-by-state. In addition, Minden
Medical Center will be providing resources about enrollment into the new
Marketplace in the months to come.

Health insurance has many benefits and undoubtedly helps keep people well and
keep our community healthy. As we continue to learn more and prepare for the
Marketplace to open, Minden Medical Center is committed to keeping you informed.
October 1 will be here soon, and we want to you to be prepared.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Health

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BAB

                      Copyright 2013 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                           Copyright 2013 The Banner


                              481 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 14, 1999 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Lifetime health cover

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Leaders; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 603 words


LIFETIME health cover, perhaps the most radical goal announced in this week's
Federal Budget, may be the key to guaranteeing the future of Australia's health
system. But, without more, it may lead to as many problems as it helps solve.
The bold move to increase the extent by which individuals are prepared to
contribute, through private insurance, to the cost of hospital and medical
treatment deserves to succeed. But it cannot succeed in the fullest sense
without additional equally bold measures to rein in the costs of hospital and
medical services.

The Government has chosen a good time to introduce so controversial a measure,
which modifies the community rating principle that requires health insurance
companies to offer the same premium charges to everyone, no matter how long they
have been paying premiums. After July 1 next year, a person over 30 who wants
private health cover cannot afford to dither. For each year he or she delays
signing up for private health insurance, there will be a 2 per cent loading on a
base rate premium. That "laggards' penalty" will not apply to people aged 65 on
July 1 this year - nor, of course, to people who simply never take up private
health insurance. The hope is that the number of younger people signing up for
private health insurance will greatly increase, driven by fear of the
incremental burden from delay.

Yet, how many of the two-thirds or more of the population who at present do not
pay for private medical insurance will now choose to do so? It is unclear yet
how much the carrot of the 30 per cent health insurance rebate introduced last
year has arrested the decline in private health insurance. Will the stick
implicit in the new measures for lifetime health cover now make a difference?
One great problem is to persuade the young to be far-sighted, and not just the
mature who are naturally more inclined to consider the attraction of private
health insurance. Some people who are not now buying private health insurance
never will be because they do not want to. Some simply cannot afford to. But the
great question is how many of those who feel they may need it in the future will
now be persuaded, in the words of the Treasure, Mr Costello, to "make health
insurance a habit". It is to be hoped that a great many will. Only then will one
of the crucial aims of these measures - more affordable health insurance
premiums - have a good chance of being realised.

A radical policy measure to increase the flow of premiums to private health
insurers is not for the insurers' benefit in isolation but because it is for the
benefit of the system as a whole to have a strong private health insurance
component. And the system as a whole cannot improve unless costs are contained.
This touches political sensitivities even greater than those involved with the
shift away from community rating, because cost containment implies a
confrontation with the suppliers of medical services, the doctors.

The Government's bold measures to broaden the cash base underpinning a reliable
and comprehensive medical and hospital service are commendable. The same
boldness and imagination must also be applied to ensure the cost of medical
services is reduced and kept down. Case-mix funding - by which the Government
pays a hospital for the specific services it provides rather than the costs it
incurs - is one way. The health funds themselves should be able to help keep
costs down by using their increasing muscle to purchase medical services for
their members. It is only by tackling these more complicated areas that the
Government can complete the task it has just begun.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1999 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              482 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday

Healthy habits are the best incentive

SECTION: Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 753 words


Austere circumstances often lead to creativity and innovation, even in health
insurance.

Reducing the cost of health care has been a national priority in recent years.

During World War II, price controls led companies to offer health insurance as a
benefit.

As a result, health insurance became a common employee benefit.

Americans cannot afford health insurance costs that continue to outpace the
average cost of living.

It leads to companies dropping health insurance, it leads companies to holding
down wage increases and it leads to more uninsured Americans.

SYSTEM BEGAN YEARS AGO

Common-sense changes that can help beat back or hold down rate increases are
becoming more widespread, helping to temper the skyrocketing costs for consumers
and employers.

Even so, average premiums for employer-sponsored health insurance are up 9
percent in 2011.

The total family premium, or combined amount paid by both employer and employee,
will top $15,000 this year, more than double the $7,056 the combined premiums
cost 10 years ago.

A GOOD EXAMPLE

With employers pushing a greater share of costs to employees in most plans, the
need to reduce costs becomes more imperative.

In Georgia, the State Health Benefits Plan will reward workers for participating
in wellness programs in pursuit of a more healthy lifestyle.

After increasing only 4.1 percent annually over the last four years, policy
holders face a 17 percent hike this year, unless they sign up for the wellness
plan. Then the increase would be only 11 percent.

REAL INCENTIVES

Those who choose the lower premium will have to get annual screenings for body
mass, blood pressure, glucose and cholesterol, as well as complete monthly
surveys about their health-related activities.

In the second year, they will have to show improvements in screening results or
demonstrate they are taking steps to improve.

The Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, which this year began
requiring more preventive services be provided without co-pays, will offer
employers incentives to provide wellness programs such as the one being offered
to Georgia state employees.

Many private-sector employers already have such programs, although some are more
limited and may only reward such things as stop-smoking efforts.

Whether such programs are effective was a question put to rest by Safeway, which
uses provisions in the 1996 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
to differentiate premiums and reward participants in its wellness program.

Between 2005 and 2009, the grocery chain reported that it kept its per capita
health care costs flat, including employee-premiums, while health care costs for
most other companies increased close to 10 percent annually.

Safeway focuses on tobacco use, healthy weight, blood pressure and cholesterol
levels, and provides premium discounts to employees who successfully participate
in the programs.

In 2009, a family could have saved $1,560 if it achieved goals in all four
areas.

SLOW PROGRESS

The wonder is why more insurance companies, such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield
and United Healthcare, and larger employers haven't been more aggressive in
advocating such wellness programs and providing incentives for employees to use
them.

These and other incentive-based programs have been introduced too slowly to make
major impacts on health care prices.

Given the costly obesity epidemic and consequences of other unhealthy behaviors
in this country, expansion of such programs would provide a great return on
investment.

The Affordable Care Act relies on wellness programs to reduce costs, and they
are likely to flourish even if opponents of the act are successful in having the
law overturned by the U.S. Supreme Court.

Beginning this year, the act provides grants for up to five years to small
businesses that establish wellness programs.

It would permit employers to provide rewards to employees - up to 30 percent of
premium costs - for participating in wellness programs and meeting
health-related standards.

Effective in 2014, that could mean big savings in most households, as well as a
healthier workforce.

COST IS NOT DEBATABLE

Though the future of the Affordable Care Act is in dispute, there is no dispute
about the math.

The cost of health insurance is increasing too quickly.

The best way to control cost increases is to provide incentives for the health
lifestyle choices that Americans already know they need.

Eating right, getting screenings and exercising are essential.

Providing money in return for healthy habits is the best incentive of all.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration
Annie.Liao@jacksonville.com Graphic: HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Florida Times-Union


                              483 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                              June 12, 2017 Monday
                               GoldCoast Edition

Hard medicine to take

BYLINE: Sue Dunlevy National Health Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 402  words


MORE than a million Australians are paying up to $3000 extra for private health
insurance as a result of government means tests, age penalties and subsidy cuts.

Government health insurance penalties are more than doubling the cost of health
cover for some at a time when rising premiums are forcing people to drop their
insurance.

For some people these penalties are pushing their health insurance costs up from
around $3000 to over $6100.

An investigation into the effect of government health insurance penalties has
found tens of thousands of Australians lost access to some or all of the 25 per
cent private health insurance tax rebate under a means test introduced in 2012.

As a result they are paying up to $1077 a year more for their cover. If they
also delayed taking out their health insurance until late in life they could be
paying a government Lifetime Health Cover (LHC) penalty worth up to 70 per cent,
or $2100.

More than one million Australians are paying this LHC penalty that increases the
price of insurance by 2 per cent for every year they delayed taking out cover
after they turned 30.

The federal government has also cut the subsidy it provides for health insurance
from 30 per cent to 25 per cent adding a further $166 to the cost of health
insurance by indexing it at a rate lower than premium rises.

A Spokeswoman for iSelect Laura Crowden said one in four iSelect customers aged
31 were paying a LHC penalty that was adding an average 29 per cent to their
hospital cover premiums, she said.

"There are more than 130,000 Australians aged over 55 currently paying an LHC
loading of at least 50 per cent," Ms Crowden said.

"Over 10 years, a 50 per cent loading could result in an average iSelect
customer paying an extra $15,000 more for their policy." Private Healthcare
Australia chief Rachel David said at a time when wages growth remained flat the
rising cost of these penalties was making it harder for people to afford health
insurance.

Health funds are asking the government to reconsider the age at which the LHC
penalty started and to provide a discount premium for younger people who took
out health cover.

LIFETIME HEALTH COVER PENALTIES â[#x20ac]¢ Introduced in July 2000.

â[#x20ac]¢ Applies to anyone over 30 years old taking out health insurance for
the first time.â[#x20ac]¢ For each year over 30, a 2 per cent penalty is added
to the cost of the private health insurance premium up to a maximum of 70 per
cent.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Gold Coast Bulletin


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              484 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                The Wayne County Outlook (Monticello, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday

21% increase County employees will keep same health insurance

BYLINE: Melodie Phelps, The Wayne County Outlook, Monticello, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 409 words


June 18--County employees will keep the same health insurance coverage for the
next year, but it will cost county government significantly more than a year
ago. Wayne County Fiscal Court approved the health insurance renewal plan during
a meeting held on Thursday, June 13, despite the 21 percent increase in the
premium.

Initially, the health insurance company indicated that the increase could be as
much as 30 percent because of several large claims. But the final offer was at a
21 percent increase, which translates into approximately $116,000 more than the
plan cost for the past year.

The jump in the cost of health insurance prompted quite a bit of discussion
among magistrates at the meeting. Several voiced concern about the county being
able to sustain this type of coverage for its employees.

"We want to provide good health insurance, but we have to be able to afford it,"
said Wayne County Judge-Executive Greg Rankin.

Rankin noted that this plan has no significant change in benefits for employees.
Dental and vision costs will remain unchanged.

In other action, the court:

--Approved the second reading of the fiscal year 2014 budget which totals $9.2
million.

--Approved annual bids for items like blacktop, coal mix, concrete, propane,
diesel and contracted services.

--Approved an ordinance amending the current fiscal year's budget.

--Approved the sheriff's tax settlement.

--Approved contracts with Clinton County and McCreary County to house inmates.

--Discussed the condition of three swinging bridge in the area of the Little
South Fork. District Three Magistrate Dale Vaughn noted that these bridges play
an important role in the community and they need to be repaired.

--Heard a monthly report from Jailer Ray Upchurch who noted that the current
population at the Detention Center is 126 which includes 35 county inmates and
89 state inmates. Upchurch said that the county has billed a total of $87,514.72
for housing inmates.

--Heard a report from Solid Waste Coordinator Tim Bell who noted that white
goods have been collected at 74 households in the last month bringing the total
this year to 346. Recycling sales totaled

$5,854.33 last month.

--Heard a report from Wayne County EMS Director Bubby Corder who noted that the
ambulance service answered a total of 275 calls in May.

___ (c)2013 The Wayne County Outlook (Monticello, Ky.) Visit The Wayne County
Outlook (Monticello, Ky.) at www.wcoutlook.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130618-OZ-21-increase-County-employees-will-keep-same-health-insurance
-0618-20130618

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OZ


                    Copyright 2013 The Wayne County Outlook


                              485 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                              May 14, 2004 Friday

Red tape may be bad for your health

BYLINE: Lee Davidson and Amy Joi Bryson Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 582 words


WASHINGTON -- More than 4 million Americans lack health insurance for an
unexpected reason: government regulations led to increased costs that make
insurance just a bit too expensive for them to afford.

That's according to a study by the Joint Economic Committee, chaired by Sen. Bob
Bennett, R-Utah. In turn, Bennett held a hearing Thursday about how government
regulation of health care may have gone overboard, and is increasing costs too
much.

"Patients, consumers and taxpayers are the ones who bear the ultimate costs of
unnecessary regulation," Bennett said. "Excessive regulatory burdens can also
harm our most vulnerable individuals, such as the uninsured."

Regulations range from hospital cleanliness and standards of care to insurance
regulations.

A study released by his committee at the hearing said "regulatory costs increase
health expenditures by an estimated 6.4 percent, driving up health insurance
premiums and reducing insurance coverage."

It noted that some studies estimate that such higher costs result in a 2.2
percent decrease in insurance coverage nationally.

Duke University public policy professor Christopher Conover, who conducted some
of the research that led to those numbers, testified, "This translates into 4
million uninsured whose plight might be attributed to excess regulatory costs,
or roughly one in 11 of the average daily uninsured."

In Utah, nearly 200,000 people are uninsured, according to the Utah Health
Status Survey. Of those, 6.8 percent are children. Eighty percent of the
uninsured are working families.

Another 209,000 low-income Utahns receive insurance benefits via Medicaid, the
Children's Health Insurance Program, the Primary Care Network and Covered at
Work.

At the same time, as regulations force expansions in coverage, the costs of
insurance continue to rise.

"I don't know what the answers are, but I do know we do not need more mandates,"
said Jennifer Cannaday, assistant director of legislative and regulatory affairs
for Regence Blue Cross Blue Shield of Utah.

Critics say the regulations, while often crafted with consumer protection in
mind, backfire because of costs.

"It is economically inefficient to adopt regulations whose costs exceed their
benefits -- and there is plenty of evidence to suggest that we routinely do
exactly that in health care to provide extra assurance of quality care,"
University of Maryland law professor David A. Hyman testified.

The result is health insurance is becoming a luxury for many families, Cannaday
told the Deseret Morning News.

"I have never understood why anyone would want to do anything to increase the
costs of health insurance when so many people cannot afford it," she said. "That
is what bothers me the most about additional regulation."

Dan Mulholland, a health-

care attorney, testified, "The health-care regulatory system has reached the
point where no one -- no doctor, no hospital, no lawyer, no government agency --
can even begin to fully understand it, let alone comply with it."

He said that leads to extra lawsuits, mistrust among health providers, and
higher costs.

Cannaday said there are many examples at the both the state and federal level of
regulatory controls that drive up costs.

At the federal level, there was the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act, which was a financial nightmare for health insurance
companies, she said.

"The intentions are good, but when you turn toward implementing it . . . the
costs just go through the roof." E-mail: lee@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              486 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            January 14, 2003 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

What ails our private health insurers?;
Editorial Opinion

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 478 words


The rebate system has done little to halt the spiralling cost of private
insurance.

People who have taken out private health insurance lured by the Federal
Government's rebate scheme must be starting to wonder whether their decision was
such a good one. More generally, taxpayers also have cause to wonder whether
even more of their taxes going to the private health insurance industry
represents the best use of their money. On the back of plummeting profits last
year, the private health insurance funds have just revealed plans to seek yet
another round of price increases. With every increase, the government - read
taxpayers - foots 30 per cent of the bill under the private health insurance
rebate system. Since its introduction, the rebate has taken more and more
taxpayer dollars. It now costs the government $2.2 billion annually, almost five
times its original projected cost. Despite this, people who were encouraged to
take out private health insurance have found themselves facing steep rises in
premiums. The number of people with private cover has increased but still
remains lower than it was a decade ago. The public health system - and the 56
per cent of Australians who have no private cover - has hardly benefited at all.

The rebate has done little to stem the rise in the cost of health insurance. The
funds are now seeking further rises of around 6 per cent, saying they are needed
to meet rising costs. On the back of an average 6.9 per cent increase last year,
the government recently told funds that they could seek increases in line with
the inflation rate. This latest round of applications are for increases of
around double that. The government-owned Medibank Private, which insures around
three million Australians, pushed up prices by 8.94 per cent last year.

Applications for increases will not be approved automatically. In a sense they
amount to something of an ambit claim by the insurers who get just one
opportunity a year for premium rises. But insurers will need to do a little
better in explaining precisely why Australians should pay more for insurance
through increases well above the rate of inflation. They need to introduce
efficiencies in their operations. Funds also need to have a close look at
policies that cover "lifestyle benefits" such as gym memberships and massage
therapy.

Clearly, the cost of the health insurance rebate continues to grow and does not
seem likely to be brought under control, under current conditions, in the
forseeable future. One unforseen impact has been to increase the demand for
medical services by private patients - hence an increase in claims - which has
put more pressure on the health system generally. A more equitable approach
would be to look at winding back the rebate and increasing the spending on
Medicare by a rise in the Medicare levy, graduated so that high-income earners
pay more.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2003 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              487 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            June 26, 2013 Wednesday

State health insurance coverage extended to 4 major diseases

BYLINE: By Kim Jae-won

LENGTH: 381 words


The government said Wednesday that the National Health Insurance Service (NHIS)
will extend coverage of medical costs to all forms of cancer, heart conditions,
cerebrovascular diseases, and rare and incurable illnesses by 2016.

The Ministry of Health and Welfare said that the public health insurance entity
will pay up to 90 percent of bills for the use of ultrasound on patients
suffering from these ailments from October.

In 2014, the coverage will expand to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) tests and
anti-cancer drugs, followed by radiation treatments which will be covered from
2015.

For instance, a colorectal cancer patient might now pay 16.2 million won for
treatment, but this will drop to 980,000 won from 2016 because most anti-cancer
drugs will be paid by the state insurance company. A patient suffering from a
cerebrovascular disease currently pays about 6 million won for treatments, but
this payment will drop to 730,000 won from 2016 because costs for MRI and other
services will be covered by the NHIS.

'We want to make people happy by reducing worries about medical costs. The
national health insurance company will cover costs of all of essential
treatments for four major diseases,' said Prime Minister Chung Hong-won during a
meeting with the ministry.

This is a key part of the campaign pledges of President Park Geun-hye during the
Dec. 19 election. She promised to cover all medical costs from the four major
diseases, igniting a debate on the practicalities and financial responsibility
of the plan.

Patients' group welcomed the plan, praising courage of the president who dares
to do so, facing opposition from medical industry.

'We welcome the Park Geun-hye government's plan to expand coverage for four
areas of disease. We expect the government to include more medical services in
the coverage, such as fees on special doctors and rooms for inpatients,' said
the Korea Organization for Patient Group in a statement.

However, the ministry said it could need an additional 9 trillion won to cover
the costs for the next five years.

However, the government seems to have no clear plan to obtain the funds. The
ministry said that it will use 4.6 trillion won of provisions of the NHIS to
cover the costs, but has no idea on where to find the remaining 4.4 trillion
won.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              488 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                            October 11, 2009 Sunday

Chamber notes: Public health insurance not any different from other public
insurance options

BYLINE: BOB BURDON For The Capital

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 721  words


Over the past few months, I've focused this column on the cost and delivery of
health care in our region and in our country.

Researching and writing the columns has been an interesting and valuable journey
for me, as well as an exercise in understanding the importance of the
undertaking our elected leaders have before them.

Absent the economic downturn we are currently experiencing, health care is
without question the most pressing long-term concern for businesses of all
sizes, their employees, their investors and consumers.

The debate over health care is not so much about providing for the poor or the
elderly, as it is about access and affordability for the middle class in our
society. That middle class consists of the majority of our business owners and
their employees; and in fact the majority of all Americans.

Medicaid and Medicare provide quality health care to those less fortunate and to
those in retirement.

Perhaps there exists no better opportunity to convey to the rest of the world
the value of democracy and its ability to deliver for those who choose to be
governed by it, than the competence and fortitude we exhibit in addressing the
health care challenge before us.

The resolve to get this single issue addressed correctly for the majority of
Americans should be no less than the resolve our country has put forth during
its most challenging moments in history.

The debate over a public-insurance option versus health insurance exchanges has
been cast as an argument over whether government will take away control of
health-insurance coverage from the private sector. Unfortunately, such an
argument is more political hyperbole, than factually based on the pros and cons
of each approach.

In essence, the real debate is over the lack of competition among insurance
providers in the marketplace.

Public-insurance options mandated by federal and state governments have existed
for many years without causing disruptions in private-sector offerings of the
same insurance coverage. The clearest example is public-insurance options for
property; and in particular public flood-insurance options for homeowners and
businesses.

States also offer public-insurance options alongside private-insurance coverage
in areas such as automotive insurance and injured-worker's compensation.

Why would a public-health insurance option be any different than these other
kinds of public-insurance options, and why would those who support other types
of federal- and state-mandated public-insurance options be opposed to a public
health insurance option?

Health-insurance exchanges, if structured properly, offer an opportunity to
address the lack of competition in the marketplace. Placing these exchanges
under individual state control will offer little relief to rising costs and lack
of competition.

If health insurance exchanges are permitted to serve consumers on a national
scale without limiting who can participate, then the potential exists for
expanding competition and lowering the cost of health care coverage.

Promoting and assuring competition in the marketplace is a legitimate function
of government, and we have used government initiatives throughout our history to
correct imbalances when they occur. Oligarchies and monopolies are just as
poisonous to a competitive market environment, as is the imposition of an
oppressive government regulatory system.

The challenge is finding the correct balance and enforcing that balance
impartially.

Assuring consumer choice in medical care providers and medical procedures is
important as we transition to an improved health care coverage system and tame
the rising costs of health care.

However, the choice of whether to acquire health care insurance coverage should
not be an option. Gaming of the system by the uninsured who choose not to be
covered has led to higher health care costs for those who choose coverage.

Everyone should be required to have health insurance and everyone should have
access to affordable health insurance coverage.

The health care debate we are engaged in now is worthy of the challenges we face
in answering the fundamental question of how to provide access and affordability
to quality health care for all citizens.

Bob Burdon is president and CEO of the Annapolis and Anne Arundel County Chamber
of Commerce. Visit the chamber at www.aaaccc.org.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2009 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              489 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                 April 21, 2008

Business leery of state-crafted health care

BYLINE: Amy Lane

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 647 Words


LANSING --

Southeast Michigan businesses are concerned about health insurance costs and the
impact of the uninsured on the health insurance system.

But many aren't ready to support a proposed amendment to Michigan's constitution
that would require the Legislature to craft universal health care coverage,
according to a poll for the Detroit Regional Chamber.

The survey, conducted by John Bailey & Associates Inc. in preparation for the
chamber's upcoming Mackinac Policy Conference, found 46 percent of respondents
would vote ``no'' on the proposed constitutional amendment, while 27 percent
would vote ``yes,'' and 27 percent had no opinion or were undecided.

At the same time, respondents cited the high cost of health insurance and impact
of the uninsured as their top health care concerns.

``We're interpreting that to mean that cost is a real concern, but they're not
ready to let the government decide what the cost is,'' said Sarah Hubbard, the
chamber's vice president of government relations. The chamber has not taken a
position on the ballot proposal.

Former state Rep. John Freeman, D-Madison Heights, who is chairing the Health
Care for Michigan campaign to place the proposal on the November ballot, said
poll results indicate the need for ``more education of the chamber members'' on
a proposal that he said benefits business and addresses their health care
concerns.

``If you want to reduce the uninsured, then the flip side of eliminating the
uninsured is universal health care coverage,'' Freeman said. ``One fundamental
way of driving down the high cost of health insurance, for people that currently
have it or for employers that are paying for it, is for everybody to have
insurance.''

Freeman said the cost of uncompensated care results in higher costs for people
who do have insurance.

The proposal does not prescribe specifics of universal coverage. Its language
requires the Legislature to ``pass laws to make sure that every Michigan
resident has affordable and comprehensive health care coverage through a fair
and cost-effective financing system.''

Freeman said he does not expect the Legislature to ``provide a Cadillac version
of health care benefits,'' but rather a ``basic package'' that people need to
maintain their health. He said the proposal doesn't mandate government-run
health care and leaves it to the Legislature to meet an established framework.
The purpose of a broad set of principles, instead of specific reforms, is to
drive discussion among unions, business leaders, health care providers,
insurance companies and other stakeholders and ``bring people together about
what makes sense for Michigan,'' Freeman said.

The proposal's Web site lists support by small businesses, politicians who
include Gov. Jennifer Granholm and Lt. Gov. John Cherry, and labor, faith-based,
health care and civil rights organizations. No major business organization has
endorsed the proposal.

In the poll, 45 percent of respondents, the largest share, ranked the high cost
of health insurance as their biggest health care concern. Twenty-four percent
cited the impact of the uninsured, while 12 percent named the cost of
prescription drugs.

The findings are part of a survey taking the pulse of Detroit-area business on a
variety of public policy issues. Troy-based Bailey & Associates conducted the
survey of 200 executives from Southeast Michigan companies and organizations in
preparation for the Mackinac conference, which runs May 28-31 on Mackinac
Island.

The poll covered the topics of state and regional business climate,
transportation, alternative energy, education and workforce development,
taxation, and politics and public policy.

Findings will help shape political and public policy reforms that the chamber
will ask conference attendees to prioritize, ultimately forming an agenda to
push forward in coming months.

Amy Lane: (517) 371-5355, alane@crain.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: db


                      Copyright 2008 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              490 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             January 7, 2011 Friday

Failure to reform health system behind VHI rise

SECTION: OPINION; Opinion; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 761 words


OPINION:There is little competition in the Irish health insurance market, writes
SARA BURKE

THE ANNOUNCEMENT by VHI Healthcare that it is to increase premium for the
majority of its customers by between 15 per cent and 45 per cent is a direct
consequence of Government failure to reform both the health system and the
private health insurance market.

It is also a result of the inherent contradiction in Government policy of
wanting to promote  competition  in healthcare on the one hand as well as trying
to ensure  fairness  for patients on the other. It is the clearest evidence yet
that Government has failed dramatically to achieve either.

There is little competition in the Irish health insurance market due to the
dominant position of the VHI. The forthcoming hike in premium demonstrates the
inability of the current  market  to protect older and sicker customers. The
two-tier system of public hospital care continues to favour private patients
over public patients and render fairness redundant. Despite libraries full of
reports and rulings on health policy and health insurance reform, systemic
contradictions remain.

Currently, the VHI has 62 per cent of the market and 80 per cent of all health
insurance costs due to the older, sicker nature of its customers. The Supreme
Court ruled in 2008, that risk equalisation (sharing the risk between younger
and older, healthier and sicker patients) was outside of the powers of the
Minister and therefore had to be discontinued.

Since then, a health insurance levy is paid to health insurance companies for
the older, more expensive patients. Due to the make up of VHI s customer base,
it receives the majority of this levy fund but the VHI maintains it is not
sufficient to cover the increasing cost of its ageing cohort with increasing
healthcare demands.

The VHI estimates its clients will need 10 per cent more healthcare this year
than next and that it faces EUR 147 million in losses this year from older
customers without the price increases. It also say that the 21 per cent increase
in charges for private beds in public hospitals is causing 8 per cent of the
price increases.

Unfathomably, VHI chief executive Jimmy Toolan, speaking on RTÉ Radio One s News
at One, said the 21 per cent increase for private beds in public hospitals was
not within my thought process , although it has been government policy since the
1999 White Paper on private health insurance to charge the full economic cost of
private care in public hospitals

In December 2010, in a letter sent by the VHI to private hospitals (trying to
negotiate down costs), the insurer stated that  we are currently unable to
generate sufficient premium income to fund our customers healthcare needs .

The VHI had a very public stand-off with private hospitals, in which it achieved
a 3 per cent cut in costs (having done so also last year) but lost the battle to
cap how much it pays to each hospital. Having failed to get sufficient  savings
from the private hospitals (which now make up 70 per cent of all VHI care costs)
, the insurer needed to find somewhere else to save money. Hence the enormous
increases announced yesterday.

The VHI, still a statutory body, although meant to be competing in a market, has
lost EUR 160 million in the last three years. It needs to match its income with
expenditure and says it has no other choice but to pass on the pain of increased
costs of healthcare to its customers.

While the overall share of the population with private health insurance has
decreased by 70,000 since it peaked at more than 52 per cent two years ago, the
VHI has lost significant market share with many people downgrading their type of
plans, many more moving to the two competing health insurers   Vivas and Quinn
health insurance   or dropping their health insurance altogether. Many more
people will now have to move to a cheaper plan within VHI, or move to other
providers or drop their health insurance.

The Government announced more reform of the health insurance sector last May,
with plans to sell off the VHI. To do this substantial State investment will be
needed so that the VHI meets a sufficient level of reserves to achieve
authorisation by the financial regulator.

The transfer of ever-increasing costs of healthcare on to the patients
shrinking purses is verification once again of this Government s absolute
failure to really reform the health system during its 14-year tenure.

Once again, it is the sick public who will pay for this legacy in the months and
years ahead.

Sara Burke is a journalist and health policy analyst

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              491 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            October 25, 2004 Monday
                                  ALL EDITION

TWO-HMO PLAN PROVES CHEAPER FOR SCHOOL DISTRICT

BYLINE: Matt Pommer

SECTION: FRONT; CAPITOL WATCH; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 624 words


Last year the Middleton-Cross Plains School District had the lowest-cost
employee health insurance costs among Wisconsin's 426 districts, and a bold
competitive program is getting the credit.

In 2003-2004 the average single employee cost was $2,698 and family coverage was
$6,746, according to data compiled by the Wisconsin Association of School
Boards. Close to 900 employees are eligible for health insurance through the
Middleton-Cross Plains district.

The annual cost numbers are so eye-popping we double-checked with the district.
Tabatha Gundrum in the employee services division said they were accurate.

Under the plan, each union gets a choice of two health maintenance organization
plans. Unlike many other employers who offer HMOs, the Middleton-Cross Plains
School District has no indemnity plan alternative in which workers can select
any physician. It's one of the HMOs or nothing.

The idea came from the teachers union in the latest round of bargaining, Gundrum
said. The district reviewed the idea, did its own research, and the idea was
adopted in contracts and for non-union workers, Gundrum said. The teachers
union's options are Dean and Unity HMOs, she said. A staff support union
selected Group Health Cooperative as one of its HMOs.

"It has been very competitive," Gundrum said of the bidding by the HMOs. "We're
a significant size group." The bidding for the second year had only single digit
increases, she said. "The School Board decided it was the best way to go."

There are costs to having an indemnity plan, and the board and the unions
decided there were many opportunities for access to good doctors using the
two-HMOs approach, Gundrum said.

The Monona Grove School District also has a unique approach to its employee
health insurance program by participating in the state employee plan. The state
plan offers a choice of all of the local HMOs plus a very expensive indemnity
program.

In 2003-2004 the Monona Grove district reported average costs at $4,347 for
single coverage and $10,720 for family coverage. For family coverage, that's
about $300 per month less than the average school district cost across
Wisconsin.

Jeffrey Avery, the chief business officer for the Monona Grove district, said
the local HMOs provide "very, very good health care" but problems crop up for
retirees who move away from Dane County. All of the HMOs provide emergency care
away from the area, but continuing care is linked to being in Madison.

Retired Monona Grove teachers have coverage through age 70, and Avery calls that
an "excellent benefit" for them. But the state indemnity plan, one of the
options available, costs more than twice what the district pays under its labor
contracts, he said.

Curbing health insurance costs are an important management issue whether it's
the public or private sector. It's doubly important for school boards and
teachers because of revenue controls and labor contract rules.

Smaller health insurance costs mean more money may be available for salaries or
other educational changes, both Gundrum and Avery note.

Higher health insurance costs also pinch state budget officials and taxpayers.
The current two-year state budget provides an additional $189 million in state
aid to local school districts. But Barry Forbes of the Wisconsin Association of
School Boards estimates that health insurance premium increases will take $118
million -- or 60 percent of the additional money.

The state limits on school spending and teacher pay and fringe benefit cost
increases are now a decade old. The cry of the unions has been to repeal these
limits, but that's unlikely to happen any time soon.

That's why the Middleton-Cross Plains two-HMO approach may attract more
attention in the future.

E-mail: mpommer@madison.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2004 Madison Newspapers, Inc.


                              492 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Investors India

                                  July 3, 2015

Guest Column: Five Reasons why Health Insurance is a Must Today

LENGTH: 628  words


With medical inflation running in double-digit for last few years, not having a
Health Insurance can be adventurous. Ironically, the Health Insurance
penetration level in India is extremely low compared to its western
counterparts. Various estimates suggest 11-13% of population is presently
covered with Health Insurance. A World Bank analysis of financing of
hospitalization shows that large proportion of people borrows money or sells
assets to pay for hospitalization. Majority of Indians are vulnerable to major
ailments.



With changing economics of the health care, there are some distinct reasons why
Health Insurance is important for individuals.

Changing Lifestyles: Levels of stress have gone up substantially in the last few
years. Long working hours, limited or absolute lack of physical activity and
exercise, disregard for a healthy balanced diet and a rising dependence on
unhealthy fast food lead to weakening immune systems and put individuals at an
increased risk of contracting illnesses.

Changing Nature of Medical Disorders/Diseases: While communicable diseases have
reduced substantially in the last few decades, non-communicable diseases /
medical conditions such as obesity, high blood pressure, strokes, and heart
attacks, which were not so common earlier, are affecting an increasing number of
urban population. According to estimates, as much as 18% of the urban population
suffers from hypertension, which can potentially lead to renal failure, stroke
and cardio-vascular diseases (CVDs). CVDs like heart disease/ stroke are the
main causes of death and disability today. A couple of more shocking facts are
that 30% of the population suffers heart attacks before age 40 and 66% of deaths
today are caused due to CVDs. Also, almost 3.5 million Indians suffer from
diabetes today.

The Cost Factor: Breakthroughs in medical sciences / technologies have resulted
in cures for many dreaded diseases. However, the unfortunate fact is that these
cures are available only to a select few. High operating expenses-even a routine
heart procedure can easily cost up to Rs 100,000-have restricted the
availability of such treatments only to the elite. In fact, even among the
affluent groups, some need to sell their personal assets to meet healthcare
costs.

Opportunity Costs and Indirect Costs: These costs add to the individual's
financial burden. Indirect sources of expense-travel, boarding and lodging, and
even temporary loss of income-account for as much as 35% of the overall cost of
treatment. Most often, these costs are overlooked when planning for medical
expenses.

Inadequate Financial Planning:

When it comes to insuring non-life assets, people prioritize their homes,
vehicles, children's education and even their retirements. Ironically, however,
insuring health is low on priority for the most. People generally ignore the
fact that illnesses strike without warning-and seriously impact finances and eat
into their savings in the absence of a good health insurance or medical
insurance plan.

We feel that there is an urgent need to ramp up the health insurance coverage in
the country as out-ofpocket payments are still among the highest in the world.
To protect against potential medical emergencies, non-life insurance companies
provides a comprehensive health insurance plan fitting well in everyone's
budget. A standard Health Insurance plan provides cover for in-patient treatment
costs, pre-hospitalization and posthospitalization expenses, and such other
major expenses associated with medical emergencies. The plan not only covers
hospitalization expenses due to accidents or illness but extends to cover pre-
and post- hospitalization expenses, day-care procedures, domiciliary treatment,
organ donor expenses, emergency ambulance etc.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


         Copyright 2015 Bajaj Capital Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              493 of 999 DOCUMENTS


             Journal Record Legislative Report (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              June 9, 2008 Monday

Commentary: Mandated health insurance coverage needs study

BYLINE: William O. Pitts

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 712  words


Interim studies, particularly in election years, often are proposed for
legislative measures to avoid a potentially unpopular but objectively
justifiable vote on a specific bill or issue.

Such was likely the case for state Sen. Jay Paul Gumm's bill to mandate health
insurance coverage for the diagnosis and treatment of autism. His Senate Bill
1537 died in the Economic Development and Financial Services Committee of the
Oklahoma House of Representatives when the chairman, state Rep. Ron Peterson,
R-Broken Arrow, refused to hear it.

Last-minute efforts in the closing days of the legislative session to force
consideration of the bill failed but an interim study to determine its cost to
health insurance ratepayers was approved by Speaker of the House Chris Benge,
R-Tulsa, who reportedly said parents of autistic children will be included.

Without question the issue is an anecdotally emotional one for those who must
deal with the heart-wrenching and costly care of an autistic child. It also
makes for insurance-company-bashing quotes on the six o'clock TV "soap" news.

It is virtually impossible to visit with even the most reasonable and cogent
parent of such a child for even a few minutes without realizing and sympathizing
with the mental, emotional and financial stress they endure. Unfortunately this
poignancy often blurs objectivity in considering the real effect of such
legislation.

Gumm's bill is part of a national movement to get states to mandate health
insurance coverage for autistic children. Conflicting studies have been cited
regarding increased health insurance costs to ratepayers and in some cases such
as Oklahoma the same study is being used by Gumm and Peterson to prove such a
law will or will not result in higher health insurance rates.

The study was done by James Bouder of the Vista Foundation, a Pennsylvania-based
autism advocacy group. The senator says it shows passage of his bill "would not
spike insurance costs and ultimately would save taxpayers millions. " He added
it shows the cost would be less than one-half penny for every dollar in premium
costs.

"Such a negligible cost would not drive up the number of uninsured Oklahomans
while providing needed benefits to families struggling to care for their
autistic children. " Gumm said.

Not so, Peterson insists.

"If all of the 1,894 (about 30 percent of the 6,289 estimated by the federal
Center for Disease Control and Prevention) autistic children covered by mandate
policies received the full $75,000 in annual benefits the Bouder study
acknowledges are possible under SB 1537, Oklahomans could pay an additional $142
million per year for insurance. That translates into a 5.22-percent increase in
rates. "

That could seriously affect individual rate payers' health insurance and
employers' ability to provide group health insurance. To be sure, whatever the
cost is, it will not be borne by the insurance companies.

Even the Bouder study acknowledges that "100 percent of likely, increased costs
attributable to services provided under SB 1537 will be passed on to private
insurance ratepayers. "

Democrats are attempting to make the bill a partisan election issue, blaming
House Republican leaders for refusing to hear the bill in committee while
claiming many Republican members supported the measure, a curious and unproven
claim but a typical political approach.

Both parties are good at blocking legislation in committee. In the Senate,
Democrats prevented a committee hearing on Peterson's bill to require actuarial
studies of all proposed mandated health insurance coverages before they could be
enacted.

The Bouder study and the different resulting claims about it demonstrate that an
objective and independent actuarial examination of the costs to Oklahoma
ratepayers is the right path to follow. Passing legislation with such potential
impact on Oklahoma's health insured in the heat of emotional demonstrations and
protests would have been unwise.

While the economic impact of such legislation on Oklahomans with or needing
health insurance is of vital importance, legislators should not overlook the
possible social and long-term costs of failure to treat autistic children.

William O. Pitts may be reached by phone at (405) 278-2880 or by e-mailing
bill.pitts@journalrecord.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              494 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            January 31, 2014 Friday

Gilmore puzzled by rising health cover cost

BYLINE: Michael O'Regan

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 252 words


T^onaiste Eamon Gilmore said he shared the wonder expressed by people as to why
the cost of private health insurance was going up

.

"The Government has no legal power to intervene in the pricing set by VHI or any
other insurer,'' he added. "However, we are very concerned about the cost of
standard health insurance for hard- pressed families.''

Mr Gilmore said Minister for Health Dr James Reilly had set up a consultative
forum to work with health insurers, the Department of Health and the Health
Insurance Authority on the issue of containing costs. His initial report had
been published and he would have a further report within three months.

The T^onaiste was replying to Fianna F^oil health spokesman Billy Kelleher, who
noted VHI had announced its fourth price increase in three years.

"It could be perceived that this Government is in cahoots with insurers in
efforts to drive as many families as possible out of the health insurance
market,'' Mr Kelleher added. "More than 6,000 people a month are giving up
private health insurance.''

'Gold-plated'He called on the Minister for Finance  to reverse the cap on tax
relief for health insurance, in view of the fact he said "only gold-plated
health insurance policies'' would be affected. "On the contrary, it is affecting
every family in the country currently attempting to retain their private health
insurance,'' Mr Kelleher added.

He appreciated, he said, Mr Gilmore sharing in the wonder at the rising cost but
would prefer if he shared the responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              495 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 11, 1991, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National Health Insurance Benefits Everyone

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 525 words


To the Editor:

"Health Care a Growing Burden" (Business Day, Jan. 29) finds that annual
health-care costs for each worker in 1990 were more than $3,200, a 17.1 percent
increase from 1989. Employer-based health care has become increasingly
inadequate for containing costs and providing coverage for the 31 million people
who are uninsured. Health-care expenditures only add to the cost of labor, thus
increasing unemployment. Increased labor costs also make it more difficult for
American companies to compete with foreign corporations.

In addition, employers who would like to offer health insurance are sometimes
denied that opportunity by insurance companies. For instance, many insurers who
fear enrolling individuals with acquired immune deficiency syndrome or the human
immunodeficiency virus will not enroll such groups as professional dancers,
florists and AIDS activists. And some insurers offering group plans to employers
try to discourage high-risk people from enrolling by offering skimpy benefits --
such as paying no more than $2,000 a year for pharmaceuticals or
hospitalization.

Moreover, those who are unemployed, self-employed, between jobs or unable to
work are seen as poor risks by insurers. They are able to get insurance, if at
all, at prohibitively high rates, excessively high out-of-pocket expense or
without coverage of pre-existing conditions.

Ultimately, employer-based health insurance must be eliminated to insure
efficient and equitable health insurance financing.

The Dutch Government plans to eliminate employer-based health insurance in the
1990's. Under the Dutch health insurance system, each individual will select a
health plan from competing insurance organizations during an open-enrollment
period. The Government will require insurers to offer a basic minimum benefits
package. This will prevent insurers from offering skimpy benefit packages that
cater to the healthy.

Individuals will be required to pay a premium into a central fund based on
income, as well as an additional premium to the plan of their choice. Those who
are unemployed will be required to pay only a modest premium, but will still be
covered by the basic benefits package.

The incentives in this system encourage quality and efficiency. Plans that can
deliver services most efficiently and with the highest quality will enroll
larger numbers. Insurers will not be allowed to deny coverage, but those who
disproportionately enroll high-risk individuals will be compensated by the
central fund. Cost containment will thus come from competition among health
insurers, as well as limits on the use of the most expensive technology.

The elimination of employer-based health insurance and compensation for insurers
who take added risks should mean competition by insurers to control costs,
rather than to avoid high-risk individuals. This may be just the dose of
efficiency and equity the United States health-care system and American business
desperately need.

WARREN GREENBERG
Professor of Health Economics
Department of Health Services
Management and Policy
George Washington University
Kensington, Md., Jan. 30, 1991

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              496 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday

Ongoing jumps in health insurance costs

BYLINE: By ROB STOCK

SECTION: BUSINESS; NATIONAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 512 words


HEALTH INSURANCE NUMBERS People covered by medical insurance

March 2013: 1.34 million

March 2012: 1.35 million

March 2011: 1.37 million

March 2010: 1.39 million

Source: Heath Funds Association

--------------------

INSURER SOVEREIGN says its health insurance customers must brace themselves for
further premium rises far ahead of inflation and, unless something dramatic
happens, the costs will continue to increase each year.

The rising cost of health insurance is seeing a trend in people cutting their
health cover. But while it is giant not-for-profit insurer Southern Cross which
usually attracts the headlines, thanks to its dominant market position, other
insurers are not exempt from what is termed "medical inflation".

It is the elderly and retired who are being hit hardest thanks to the heightened
risk of them making claims in any one year. One couple who contacted this paper
said their Sovereign premiums had risen from $148.59 per fortnight in early 2007
to $277.42 in 2010, rises so high they had to quadruple their excess just to be
able to retain cover and even with that they are paying $312.29 per fortnight
now.

That is approaching 30 per cent of NZ Super.

But Sovereign said there was little it could do about the runaway rises in
medical inflation, which incorporates elements such as surgeons' fees, hospital
fees, medical appliances, prosthetics and drugs.

Sovereign's David Drillien, general manager marketing and product, said: "We
understand how difficult is can be for some people - particularly in this age
bracket - to absorb rising premium costs into their budget.

"It is an industry-wide issue that all health insurers are facing as costs
associated with new medical technology, consultation fees and general medical
inflation continue to rise."

And things do not look like they are improving.

"We agree that the situation as it stands is no good for customers and no good
for our industry. [But] unless something drastically happens to lower the costs
associated with health insurance, we will continue to see premiums rise each
year."

The health funds industry has called for tax breaks for the elderly on health
insurance premiums - something being supported by NZ First - but so far it is a
measure the cash-strapped Government has ruled out.

Sovereign's expectations of rises in the next few years are between 6-10 per
cent in premium rises each year, but averages do not show the full picture.

Ex-teachers in the Education Benevolent Society's (EBS) health scheme, for
example, face a big premium rise when they reach age 70.

The health insurance policy Sovereign is currently selling does not have a
sudden age-banded jump when policyholders turn 70 that is part of the EBS
scheme.

"Age banding is not standard for our retail customers, though their premium
increases with age annually."

Health Funds Association chief executive Roger Styles said those covered by
health insurance is expected to drop below 30 per cent of the population later
this year.

--------------------

CAPTION:

Rising medical costs are pushing up health insurance premiums.

Picture: Reuters

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              497 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             August 24, 2008 Sunday

Squeezing the bottom line;
Small business owner wary of both candidates' solutions

BYLINE: By Anthony Gottschlich Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 449 words


KETTERING - Small businesses feel health care costs in a big way.

"It's the second biggest expense we have behind labor costs," said Rick Little,
president of Starwin Industries, a 50-man machine shop on Woodman Drive in
Kettering. "For us, probably 8 or 10 percent of our gross receipts go to health
insurance."

And it's not getting better, he said. For much of the last decade, Starwin's
health insurance costs have climbed by double digits each year, mirroring a
national trend and further squeezing the company's bottom line in a time of
intense global competition.

Echoing a concern shared by many, Little asked: How can a small company survive
in such an environment?

He doesn't see any answers coming from presidential candidates Barack Obama or
John McCain. Although both candidates are proposing major changes to the
nation's health care system, "neither one of them sounds like anything I want to
sign up for," Little said, chuckling and declining to say who he'll vote for.

Sen. Obama (D-Ill.) would offer a national health insurance plan for people who
can't find affordable private plans. He'd pour billions into subsidies and
require employers who don't offer "meaningful" health benefits to chip in, too.

Sen. McCain (R-Ariz.) would provide tax credits, $2,500 for individuals and
$5,000 for families, to offset the cost of insurance plans with or without an
employer. The idea is that along with some systematic reforms, the increased
choice and competition would drive health insurance costs down, increasing
accessibility. McCain would finance that, in part, by taxing
employer-contributed health benefits.

Little said Starwin picks up 80 percent of its workers' health insurance tab. A
typical worker with a family pays about $55 a week, he said. But with rising
costs, the company has had to increase employee deductibles and co-pays and pray
in the meantime no one gets sick.

"We had a couple of guys who had heart attacks (and) our rates went through the
roof," Little said. "And, unfortunately, when they (died), the rates went back
down."

Little, whose company belongs to the Dayton Tooling & Manufacturing Association,
would like to see similar companies and associations be able to band together -
either locally, statewide or nationally - to purchase health insurance. The
larger member pool would drop costs and ease the strain on businesses and
employees, he said.

"We're doing everything we can," Little said. "For the kind of work we have, we
have to keep a top-notch employee base. As part of that you have to give them
good insurance and good benefits and that's just getting tougher and tougher."

Contact this reporter at (937) 225-7408 or agottschlich@DaytonDailyNews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rick Little is the president of Starwin Industries, which employs about
50 people. The machine shop's health insurance costs are climbing by double
digits each year. Staff photo by Lisa Powell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              498 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                          Sunday Times (South Africa)

                               February 20, 2005

Social health insurance on horizon

BYLINE: Adele Shevel

SECTION: Health; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 584 words




Risk equalisation fund aims to level the playing field, writes

SOUTH Africans may be one step closer to having the social health insurance that
developed countries do. The risk equalisation fund (REF), which aims to
standardise premiums and benefits, has been launched on a trial basis.

Medical schemes will either pay into, or receive money from, the fund. Schemes
that have a greater proportion of younger and healthier members will effectively
subsidise those with more older, sicker members.

This will stop competition between medical schemes through risk selection, which
in effect leads to some schemes having a greater proportion of younger and
healthier people.

A scheme with more elderly and sick members uses more resources, which leads to
an increase in premiums to cover costs. The REF will make it easier to compel
people to belong to private healthcare schemes (as the government wants to do)
because contributions will no longer depend on one's risk profile, which looks
at age and chronic conditions.

Older members may benefit from the fund. Alex van den Heever, adviser to the
registrar of medical schemes, says schemes with a profile of older individuals
may be able to reduce the premiums their members are now paying. "Medical scheme
contributions will be more fair," he says.

Of broader significance is that the fund is one less hurdle in the long road
towards social health insurance, in which all employed South Africans - apart
from the poor - contribute to the cost of healthcare through a mandatory tax.

The time period set for establishing social health insurance is three to four
years, says Van den Heever.

But social health insurance has its opponents. The National Treasury does not
support the current proposal for funding social health insurance, which consists
of a blanket levy on all salaried workers.

This would amount to an extra tax of about 4.5% to 5.5% on salaries, but would
see the removal of the current medical scheme tax subsidy, which favours the
rich rather than the poor. It would mean a reduction in contributions for
certain medical schemes.

Higher-income earners would pay more for healthcare than those with a smaller
income.

The medical schemes industry, however, does support the REF initiative. The
trial period will be for a year to see the effect and give industry players the
chance to tweak the system.

Though healthcare for all sounds like a good idea, Neva Makgetla, economist at
trade union federation Cosatu, says social health insurance would place an
intolerable burden both on lower-income workers and on the economy as a whole.

Cosatu says the insurance would actually increase medical costs. This would push
up the cost of employment and ultimately lead to a loss of jobs.

The union says social health insurance proposals would require that at least
some of the lower-income workers join medical schemes.

Detractors of the idea say ploughing more money into the healthcare system will
not fix the problem.

South Africa's health spending is high, at about 8% of GDP (compared with 8% in
other middle-income countries), but available resources, they say, are not being
used effectively.

Risk equalisation funds are successful in various European countries, Australia,
Ireland, Israel and Britain.

THE HEALTH CYCLE: If a new fund aimed at equalising risk works, medical schemes
with a younger, fitter membership will effectively subsidise schemes with older
members

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                       Copyright 2005 Times Media Limited


                              499 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday

Aviva price hike will cost families more than EUR 300

BYLINE: CONOR POPE, Consumer Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: IRELAND; Other stories; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 618 words


AVIVA HEALTH Insurance is to increase the cost of all its premiums by 15 per
cent from next year in a move that will cost many Irish families more than EUR
300 a year.

The price hikes will begin to take effect from February 15th, and the news will
come as a major blow to the company s almost 400,000 customers, who have already
had to contend with two increases imposed by the company over the past 12
months.

The third-largest private health insurance provider in the market increased its
prices by 14 per cent in March and by a further 9 per cent in August.

All told, many Aviva subscribers will have seen their premiums increase by close
to 40 per cent in less than 12 months.

The company, which has about 380,000 subscribers, said the latest round of hikes
was unavoidable, and it blamed medical inflation, escalating claims costs and
higher charges for private beds in public hospitals, which the Government is to
introduce from the beginning of next month.

In a statement, Aviva said it understood that  affordability is paramount for
Irish consumers and is committed to managing its costs .

It said it had  put a number of measures in place in an effort to control costs
and minimise premium increases , such as  developing and encouraging primary
care solutions, actively negotiating with our suppliers and providers and
introducing cost efficiencies into our administrative processes .

However, the price increases are unlikely to be restricted to the 15 per cent
announced yesterday.

Aviva warned that the controversial proposals put forward by Minister for Health
James Reilly to change the current system of designating beds in public
hospitals for private patients is likely to  have a significant impact on health
insurance premiums .

In the budget unveiled earlier this month, the Government put forward proposals
that will see the cost of private beds in public hospitals increasing and
legislation being introduced to make bed designation clearer.

The steps will allow hospitals to pass on increased costs to private patients
and could lead to premium increases of at least 50 per cent almost immediately,
the VHI has warned.

These changes, when they come into effect, could see the cost of an average
health insurance policy for a family of two adults and two children climb by
more than EUR 1,000 a year.

In the wake of the budget and the claims by the VHI, the Minister said he saw
little to support suggestions of a need for a 50 per cent hike in premiums or
anything like it.

I am most unhappy that the costs relating to private health insurance are not
being addressed aggressively enough. But I assure the House that I intend to
ensure costs decrease,  he said at the time.

He also commissioned a review to cut the cost of private health insurance and
asked the Department of Health and the VHI to engage with actuarial experts
Milliman to undertake it.

The report is to identify methods for achieving the multimillion euro savings a
report produced last year claimed was possible, said the Minister.

Health Insurance A Year On The Up

VHI

A year of increases first saw the VHI increase its premiums by anywhere between
15 and 45 per cent in January followed by a 2 per cent increase on many policies
last month.

QUINN HEALTHCARE

The second largest insurer in the market has also had two sets of increases this
year. In April, the company announced average price increases of 6 per cent on
all its policies, and earlier this month it announced rate increases of between
7 per cent and more than 20 per cent, which will begin to take effect from the
beginning of next month.

AVIVA

In addition to yesterday s price increase, Aviva upped its prices by 14 per cent
in March and by a further 9 per cent in August.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved
